ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, take the seats. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the debate on the opinion of the draft Law on General State Budgets for 2018. Firstly, the debate on Section 20, Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda. For the presentation of the section, the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear today to defend the general lines of the draft Law on General State Budgets for 2018 corresponding to section 20, Ministry of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. For 2018, the ministry's budget amounts to €5599.65 million, an increase of just over 6% over the 2017 budget. The non-financial part of the budget, i.e. that which affects the deficit, is EUR 4538 million, which represents a slight increase over last year - slightly less than 1% - and the financial budget has an additional EUR 300 million, which represents a substantial increase of 39.42 %. In other words, financial transactions are, by contrast, the ones that go up the most in this section. Chapters 1, staff costs, and 2, current expenditure on goods and services, show a slight increase, with 57 million and 17 million respectively. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u3	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please; silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u4	The total allocation for current and capital transfers, the most important part of the ministry, especially that affecting the energy sector, amounts to €4414 million. The main provisions of these headings of Chapters 4 and 7 include compensation to undertakings for the cost of using electricity from renewable sources. This is an item that already existed in the previous budget and which appears for the second time, in line with a procedure that is being used by several Member States of the European Union, what is called avoiding carbon leakage, and is endowed with 150 million euros.Then there is an allocation of 8.5 million for the potabilizers of the Canary Islands and 3 million more than last year, in addition to the credits worth 67.2 million euros to IDAE, one of the most important institutes within the ministry, which is responsible for energy efficiency and renewable energy. Real investments are very small within the Ministry of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda, they are barely 50 million euros, and affect the functioning of the ministry's own services. And, as I said earlier, Chapter 8 is experiencing a substantial increase of EUR 300 million, especially in the increase in endowment for the Institute for the Development of Alternative Energy. For areas of expenditure, I will start with the Energy State Secretariat, with which the budget responds to the main priorities of the government's energy policy. These priorities are, as you well know: to ensure a secure and competitive energy supply; to bet on improving energy efficiency; to introduce renewable energy in an efficient and sustainable way; the interconnection of the Spanish energy system with the rest of the European Union; and the framework for the Government's commitment to the environmental objectives set by the European Union. The energy budget amounts to €4.5 billion - slightly more - and represents an increase of 314 million compared to 2017. This increase illustrates the importance we are attaching to energy efficiency and renewable energy policy. There are three basic types of action for this purpose. First, the financing of the electrical system. As you know, part of the tariff deficit has been covered by contributions from the ministry to avoid further increases in the receipt of light. Secondly, support for the economic and social fabric linked to coal. And, third, energy efficiency and renewable energy. The financing of the electricity system represents the fundamental amount of the ministry, 3750 million, and its objective, as I said before, is to balance the tariff deficit, a balance that was achieved for the first time in 2014 and that has been maintained - even with some surplus - in 2015, 2016 and 2017. It is the first time for a long time that in Spain we have a balance in the system and this has allowed to freeze or even reduce for the fifth consecutive year the tolls of access to the system, which are directly impacted on the fixed part of the receipt, what is called the term of power. That is to say, thanks to the fact that we have a tariff balance, the fixed part of the receipt has been kept constant or even reduced for five years, and in part there is a public contribution to this situation, which comes from this budget line of the ministry. Support for the sector-related social and economic fabric is the implementation of the coal mining policy framework and the promotion of the economic development of the mining regions. Why? Because, as we all know, in 2010 a European regulation was established, a decision by the Commission and the Council, which marked the path of conversion of the sector, a tremendously difficult path of conversion and which has affected more than 1600 workers, so that we have barely 1000 workers in public mining and about 300 in private mining, of a staff that came to be in 2010 over 6000 people. This very important conversion has given rise to all kinds of social aid, both to people and to the regions, and in these we have pre-retirement and reduced incentives of 230 million euros and a whole series of actions both for the environmental restoration of mines and for the creation of business incentives and measures to support the infrastructures of the regions. Furthermore, as a third fundamental element, we support renewable energy and energy efficiency. The most important item is the National Energy Efficiency Fund, apart from the Feder funding of certain items that are complemented by the budget. Among the main actions we have the second call of the Plan of incentives for the rehabilitation of buildings; the Plan Grows II, with 204 million euros, and the programme of incentives to carry out actions of energy efficiency, with 95.2 million euros. In addition, we have a new budget of EUR 300 million of financial contributions from the system itself to facilitate the implementation of structural funds. This is a scheme that is also applied in the Digital Agenda, where funds are advanced by the system, projects are implemented, Community funds are collected and once these funds are collected they can be re-advanced, so that the project implementation capacity is greatly accelerated. Also, in the same bill of the General Budgets of the State for 2018 we have actions to support the investment of electrical production facilities from renewable sources charged to the electrical surplus for a maximum amount of 60 million euros. This will enable renewable energy auctions to be carried out more quickly, as was the case last year. Finally, for the first time there is a transfer of 2 million euros from IDAE to the Bimep research centre. As far as the Information Society and the Digital Agenda are concerned, as you know, the main objective is the digitisation of the Spanish economy and its society and the creation of the conditions that will enable the improvement of the competitiveness of companies and social welfare. The total budget of the Secretariat of State is €670 million, of which 126 is a non-financial budget and 544 is a financial budget. It is important to continue to encourage the deployment of state-of-the-art broadband throughout the territory. Spain already has a coverage of 71% fiber optics and 76% fixed high speed networks and the idea is to continue to progress. Spain is the country of Europe that has the most fiber optics deployed, it has more than the sum of the United Kingdom, Italy and Germany together. And following, advancing in this very wake to get Spain to have the best fiber network and the best access by citizens to networks of the latest generation, we have launched the Plan 300x100, which is equipped for the next years of 525 million euros, 150 for the call of 2018. In addition, we have the development of 5G as the latest wireless technology. The 5G has several elements of development, one of them are the pilot projects, the first places where 5G will be installed with cases of use, how you can use a technology that expands the bandwidth and virtually eliminates latency, which have a budget of 20 million euros. Apart from this call, 24 million euros are envisaged for Networks transfers for the National Plan of Smart Territories, which will also involve digital developments of all kinds and which will have to do with both the 5G, the development of new networks as well as especially with new applications - that is what matters -; that is, on those networks what elements we can do, that you know that you have all kinds of thematic concentrations, especially energy, rural and depopulation, and also tourism. There will also be €4.5 million for actions to support the development of digital skills. This complements the work being done by the Ministry of Employment in this area. And then we have additional resources for the technical support offices of the Spanish Network of Smart Cities and for the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces because it is very important that at the local level the digitization process has support from the State. Like every year, €5 million will go to the Mobile World Capital Barcelona Foundation. It has not been easy to keep Mobile in Barcelona, it has been a great effort and the explanations and guarantees that we have had to give from the Government of Spain have been very bold, but it is also true that other administrations have been very helpful in this. Of course, we have guaranteed the smooth operation of Mobile as one of the most important technological events of the year not only at European level but at global level. Of course, in this budget is the contribution that the State makes to the patronage. We have 23 million euros for Incibe - we are talking about cybersecurity -, with this we make a major effort to invest in cybersecurity for all citizens. Incibe is the part of the public administration that is dedicated to the protection of citizens and businesses; in other ministerial areas critical infrastructures are found and other types of attacks are received, but here we are talking about what most affects all users. Of course the work that Incibe is doing deserves this budgetary contribution that we are doing. To complete these actions, we have two initiatives that fall within the overall capacities of the Secretariat of State: the Group of Wise Men on Artificial Intelligence and Big Data, which we are going to launch, and the working table to address the gender gap in technology. In terms of tourism, the Ministry's budget is 316 million, an increase of 13 million over the previous year, 4.58 per cent. Bearing in mind that it is a competence that in 100 per cent of the autonomous statutes is exclusive, we are talking about the residual competences left to the ministry as the General Administration of the State, which essentially relate to promotion abroad and to generating areas of coordination between the different autonomous communities. As you know, tourism activity last year was successful. The number of international tourists received amounts to almost 82 million, surpassing the United States and only behind France. In tourism spending we are only behind the United States; international tourists spent 86 billion euros in Spain. The World Economic Forum has already described Spain on different occasions in recent years as the most competitive tourist destination in the world. The prospects for 2018 are good, with the idea of continuing on the path of growth. In the first three months of this year, which are accounted for, we have an increase of 6% of the figure, so the outlook is moderate with respect to the increases in previous years, but in terms of historical peaks we continue to grow. That is why it is necessary to continue with our work of promoting tourism and, above all, of promoting the new markets; that is, of the tourist origins that are not so common, because you know that the vast majority of tourists coming to our country come from the European Union, especially from the United Kingdom, Germany and France, but there are also more distant destinations and that they are having a strong tourist potential, and I am talking about Russia and Asia, especially China. And on the other hand is the enhancement of the tourist product not so mature, not so well known as the sun and beach, the so-called indoor tourism, which encompasses a lot of products: nature tourism, sports tourism, cultural tourism, gastronomic tourism, urban tourism, shopping tourism. It is a medium-high segment with high added value and is having increments every year to two digits and generating a tourist development in autonomous communities that did not have so much tourist tradition and that, however, is doing them extraordinarily well in this respect. The main games in this type of promotion, with these ideas that I have just commented on are: the support for the internationalization of tourism companies, with 74 million euros; the Emprendatur project - the R & D+i projects in the field of tourism -, with 78 million euros, and then we have a whole series of games dedicated to the rehabilitation of infrastructure of equipment in mature tourist areas, those destinations that started in the sixties and that need support because they are the best areas - they are those in which the tourist activity began - but often have obsolete infrastructures. There are 18.5 million euros for this type of action, 4 million more than in the previous year. As I said, we have a special impact on strengthening tourism products, on supporting the new products I mentioned earlier and also on the new markets. And special relevance will have the tourist support that we will give through Turespana to the areas affected by last year's attacks in August, which were precisely Barcelona and Cambrils, the whole of Catalonia, which in addition to the political events of autumn also suffered a very deteriorated tourist situation, which fortunately has recovered with the political stability that was won with 155 and at the time when the campaigns of tourist promotion will be made a special impact to recover that image that in its day was lost from the first autonomous community in terms of tourism of Spain, which is precisely Catalonia. [[Rumors]] We will also have a specific match for tourism promotion in the UK as a result of the Brexit. We enter the second year of the Brexit and we need to make a special effort to inform our British customers that Spain will have exactly the same conditions - or as similar as possible - as they have been enjoying as the first country of origin of tourists. That is why, as I said before, within the scope of the State's action, we are specifically focusing on areas where there may have been some kind of problem or difficulty in the tourism sector, in addition to the general promotion of the most innovative products and which have the most capacity for growth in our country. Finally, I would like to highlight the momentum being given by the Government to the Tourism Paradores Network. An additional €18 million is planned: 14 for construction works, you know that the ministry is responsible for the infrastructure, i.e. the renovation of the Paradores because in addition the vast majority of them are listed buildings in all types of protection, the vast majority of them in the maximum. And besides, an additional $4 million for rehabilitation. That is, construction and rehabilitation. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u5	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u6	In the end, as you see, it is a budget with a certain continuity compared to the previous ones, it has new developments in the areas that matter most and in which it wants the most to affect politics, both energy, as well as the digital agenda, as well as tourism. If I wanted to sum it up in a minute we would say that in Energy more support towards renewables and energy efficiency; in Digital Agenda, the development of fiber optics to turn Spain into the first country to reach all its municipalities fiber optics, the last generation broadband, and a tourist policy based on new origins and new products and affecting issues that have been very important in our country throughout the year and that need to be strengthened, such as the recovery of tourism in Catalonia and above all the subject of Brexit so that it does not affect the arrival of British visitors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the defence of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. As has been reiterated, this general budget bill for 2018 is crucial because we are talking about public accounts in the mandate equator and will therefore serve to make substantial progress towards the final leg of the XII Legislature. There are very important and urgent energy issues that need to be addressed and resolved. Precisely the Forum's support for this budgetary procedure was reflected in the incorporation of all its amendments into the Commission's opinion and that, in the case of this section 20 which the Minister explained, there is an increase of an additional EUR 5 million in order to comply with the clarifying and conclusive judgment of the Central Court of the contentious-administrative matter relating to the agreements on mining funds. The concept of this budget line summarises its main objective: the economic revival of the coal mining regions, territories dragged into desertification if development measures are not undertaken to equip them with a business fabric to encourage job creation, because it should be remembered that mining funds are not a manna fallen from the sky, they are the counterpart to the reduction of coal production and the gradual closure of wells and farms with the consequent reduction of staffing and the loss of thousands of jobs. A conversion that has been detailed by Minister Nadal and that, being traumatic since 2010, is more so since its inception in 1997, hence the importance of mining funds for all our coal mining basins. But in terms of energy, the budget for this 2018 financial year cannot be left alone in the inexcusable execution of its items, but must be supplemented urgently with the reform of the Electricity Sector Law through the proposed law already registered by the People's Party regarding the procedure for authorizing the closure of electricity generation facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, in a serious country the decision to close a power plant dedicated to electricity production cannot be taken from behind the Government and against the general interest. The rule of law must ensure the supply of electricity at risk in its prices, in competition, in the electricity market or in the fulfilment of the environmental objectives arising from the closure of a thermal power plant. This competence must be attributed to a regulated decision of the Government, not to the whimsical decision of any enterprise, whether public or private. The closure of coal power plants destroys the Spanish industrial fabric, further increases the price of electricity, with very negative effects on the economy of our families and on the competitiveness of our companies and industries, and opens the door from behind to the allocation of longer hours of operation to nuclear power plants. It is also necessary to highlight the political parties that practice double speech and in Asturias say a few things but here in Madrid they vote exactly the opposite. From the Forum we urge the urgent handling and adoption of this legislative reform that accompanies the adoption of energy budgets that have to advance in the resolution of the uncertainties that the electricity bill has right now for domestic consumers and also for our businesses, businesses and industries, with a special reference to the electro-intensive ones. Section 27 of the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness envisages, also at the request of the Forum, as another of its conditions to vote favorably this draft budget law, the call for implementation in the year 2018 of 150 million euros in aid at national level for indirect costs of CO2, which is important for a sector that provides tens of thousands of jobs in Spain and that is the great economic and social basis of important population regions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u10	Madam President, just a minute to mourn and condemn the events that took place yesterday at Canet. The violence and contempt for freedom of expression that some individuals demonstrated do not make them worthy even of the cause they defend. Visca Canet, visca la libertad!Guanyarem! I thank the Minister for coming to the House to defend his section. I value it because yesterday this was like a kind of pediment, you know?, and it's always good, since we're in terms of dialogue, that you see the face of the one who defends your section. I have to say from your speech that one would almost buy it because you appeal to the principles we defend, the problem we see is that the numbers do not sympathize with your speech and, therefore, the debate would surely be more qualitative than quantitative. The 2018 budgets represent the non-consolidation of this ministry and of the policies we believe it should develop. Really the most significant thing about this ministry is that nothing happens and that everything remains the same in the purest 'Rajoyano' style. I would have liked to write Lampedusian because at least it would have meant that something would have changed even if in the end they kept sending the same ones, but the budget has not even moved. Like in the village of Serrat, you know? A white people - a Serrat song -: for not passing, nor passing the war. It is a pity because we had some hopes placed in this ministry, more when a committee of experts had been set up on energy transition scenarios and this Commission has already delivered its analysis report and recommendations regarding the possible scenarios, all of them that need a serious and determined investment, no doubt much more important than the one that today defends PP and Citizens here. In addition to resources, we understand that there is also a need for a change of direction in energy policy, and that is certainly where you and I collided amicably. We have already recalled on several occasions how this House at the request of our group or at the request of other groups has approved progress in legislative proposals such as variable power, closed networks or the creation of the demand aggregator figure to facilitate the energy transition process. It makes you look boring because I, I admit, am boring because my job is to repeat it to you. The result - I am really sorry - is that what you, PP and Citizens are presenting to us here, serves only to strengthen the economic and energy model developed historically by the People's Party, and by the PSOE, and with the recent incorporation of Citizens, against the modernization of the productive economy and in favour of large corporations, especially the evil so-called electric oligopoly, which is just the sum of five monopolies, each with their respective market, which also ratify an energy model that maintains one of the highest electricity costs for SMEs throughout the European Union, despite their efforts; a model that does not allow the transition to a new energy model and that slows down the creation of thousands of jobs linked to renewable energies. These budgets continue to consolidate a model based on fossil energy, too anchored in fossil energy, and do not facilitate the energy transition to the decarbonisation horizon. In fact, the most important items, as you have said, are items intended to pay the electricity debt and intended entirely for those companies that mentioned the five monopolies, rather than enhancing a competitive electricity system based on renewables that would allow the creation of multiple jobs. No offense, Minister, but the phrase I have to say is so beautiful to me. We don't know if the energy needed to move along this path lacks intelligence or if intelligence lacks energy, but there is something that doesn't fit. On the other hand, the High Nuclear Security Council has been provided with a budget of only EUR 47 million for the exercise of its functions, insufficient in view of the present scenario linked to the necessary closure of nuclear power plants in the coming years. It causes fear that it is unclear who will pay for the closure of nuclear power and how. We do not have the luck - nor the fortune - of Mr Martínez Oblanca, and none of the 39 amendments tabled by my group deserve the approval of the PP and the Citizens. I will quote you, because I am running out of time, some of them so that you can see what is lost: the change in public lighting in different municipalities; the underground of the high voltage lines of Viladecavalls, Cerdanyola del Vallés, Rubí, MAT and Serra de Marina; some aid for the conversion of the region of Bergedá, Massalcoreig and Seras, by virtue of the new model of integral and sustainable development of the mining districts; various projects for the installation of photovoltaic plates for the self-consumption and supply of light, heating and air conditioning in various installations of various municipalities; the construction of a new biomass plant in Caldes de Montbui; the re-establishment of the Mallorca-Menorca electricity connection, the double wiring according to the state plans and the specific quota of aid for new renewable energy production centres. And as I'm already warned, here's not the end of my list, but the end of my time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u11	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u12	Good morning, Minister. Good morning to everyone and everyone. The Confederal Group of the United People's Party of Great Britain and Northern Ireland has tabled a total of 109 partial amendments and 37 amendments to the joint text. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u13	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u14	We have taken Section 20 seriously, being aware that this country deserves and needs a profound transformation, precisely, Minister, in energy and, above all, in digital matters. We would like to begin by saying to you, Minister, that we do not share at all the readings that are being made, even today for you, and that we believe that this budget only confirms the failure of your policies, a sound failure. For example, it began on Monday, as you know, the auction of interruptibility, which only highlights the mistake made, I insist, of your ministry, an error that entails significant costs in economic terms in our country, which are paying domestic consumers and which, moreover, does not serve to meet the needs of the industry, and, above all, we are faced with an opaque mechanism. There is an absolute lack of transparency with regard to an element such as this that we are having these days in our country. You are being warned by the national commission, you are being questioned as to the interruptibility of these facts and not only remains unamended, but you continue on an absolutely erratic path. This is a sonorous and decisive failure of your policy which, I insist, reflects and repeats in your budget, but we have another sonorous failure that has to do with nothing more and nothing less than the failed social bonus. You have put to the letter to the electricians of this country what they wanted with the social bonus. Now you have made it the administrations closest to the citizenry, the ones that have the most economic difficulties, which are the municipalities, the ones that take care of... [[Minister of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda Nadal Belda makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, it is, Minister. They will be the ones who take over the so-called social bonus, when you also know, as I know it, that we have a Supreme Court ruling that questioned your distribution of the social bonus costs and said something very clear. The Supreme made it very clear that it was the electrics who had to pay the social bonus, but you have done just the opposite. They have asked the letter to be the public administrations that support the social bonus and you, I insist, have put it to the letter, at the request of the electrics. We do not agree, Minister, with your budget, we do not agree. [[Applauds]] I understand, Minister, that you're nervous, because you know it's a huge failure. Speaking of failures, these budgets make the same mistake. There will be no energy transition in our country, there will be no climate change law. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you will be in charge of this section 20. Don't talk to us again about self-consumption, don't talk to us again about climate change in our country, because you are responsible for Mr Nadal's policies. Mr. Nadal, it's a shame what you're doing in our country with self-consumption. Stop penalizing, take on board the amendments and the political discourse that Spain has to have on an issue such as self-consumption. Minister, I suppose you are also aware of our amendments on the distribution of energy. When are you going to get serious about this? When will it favor the distribution of energy so that it is bidirectional and we can work with local operators? Why don't they even take up this debate that the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is constantly raising? Why are we not a modern country, Minister? Why do they not think that we are able to take seriously a product that is not anything? We are talking about a fundamental public service, which is energy. He knows that this group has taken what has to do with distribution seriously and we would like you to at least look at the amendments that, as we know, are not even going to be tabled. Of course, Minister, there are amendments that have to do with the plan for technological innovation in renewable energies. Do you not think that a serious country should be investing in a way that would be and forceful to ensure this, to create employment, to modernise the country, to meet climate change goals? Why does this reality not even arise in your ministry? Do you not think that the amendments tabled by our group, which are also linked to gender - women and energy - would at least be studyable, to reflect whether or not we are right about this issue? Don't you think it's a pending matter in Spain? Of course, we do. We are presenting a block of amendments on the energy efficiency plan in public buildings and also in the private economy. This would also generate employment, but above all it would help to fulfil the ecological mandates we have. The challenges that Spain needs with regard to climate change and the energy transition are not going to be faced with this budget. Not to mention, Minister, the degree of non-implementation of your budget, of the whole budget in general, but very particularly of Section 20, is a shame. There is another block of amendments that we have tabled, which has to do with the electrification of transport. When are you going to get serious about these matters, Minister? I insist, when are we going to take this seriously? If there is a factor that is a generator of CO2 - it knows very well - it is precisely the transport in our cities and our villages. When are they going to get to work to fix this situation? Very quickly. I don't know if you know Mr. Lasalle's public report; it's on his ministry's website. Do you know the millions of Spaniards and Spaniards who lack digital connectivity? According to the data of the ministry itself, which you represent here today, there are 19.5 million Spanish and Spanish people who lack digital connectivity under decent conditions. Minister, I am Galician, but it is not a question of being Galician, it is that Extremadura and the peoples that he wants, the historic neighborhoods of our peoples and our country lack connectivity in conditions of dignity in order to be a modern country. To speak today of digital connectivity, Minister, is to speak of democracy; to speak of democracy, obviously, it would also be interesting for the men and women of Citizens, of the PNV and yourself to study the amendments that we are presenting, for example, for free software. We again insist on the amendment of network.es to ensure that the general telecommunications law is complied with from the public. And an important question: when should compensation be paid to those affected by the Castor? It's an example, but I suppose you'll find it an important matter. Or, speaking of Galicia, Minister, why do you not consider the amendments we have tabled to stop the mining activity of O Pino y Toro?, not to mention the need to subterranean electric substations in our cities, which are causing, as you know, environmental damage and public health. Therefore, Minister, more of the same: an absolute public inaction so that the usual, the electric, continue to do business. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u15	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u16	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Extensive budget debates allow us to confront projects; that is what I am going to do today defending Section 20 on Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. I am also saying this because I do not have much opportunity to confront projects with the Minister of Energy. First of all, I would like to say that the Socialist Group defends on both sides that this country needs an ecological transition from the economy that makes a substantial change to our productive model, but we also need that transition to be a fair transition for workers who are subject to that adaptation. The transition to a digital economy will go beyond us if we do not take steps to adapt and take advantage of it. Minister, your ministry has an important regulatory part, but the huge amount of money that the energy sector is moving should also serve other purposes. I will name three that, according to our opinion, are the most important: firstly, to change towards a more sustainable energy model; secondly, to improve the competitiveness of companies and, thirdly, to combat inequality. Yes, Minister, this must also be an objective of your ministry. However, the budgets presented by the Government, the vetoes of betrayal that have been incorporated throughout the debate and the refusal to adopt our amendments simply show that there is no clear draft in terms of energy policy or digital agenda policy in the Government of Spain. The most important issue of these budgets is the complete absence of items intended to address the energy transition. The Government should not plan to legislate on a matter of urgency not only for the implementation of the Paris Agreements but also for the adaptation of the Spanish economy to the future. Not only do we ask, but we are asked by experts, companies, social organizations. We call for energy policy, because at the moment there is neither a regulatory nor an incentive policy that is necessary. There is not a single euro, for example, to address the structural change involved in electrification of transport. Ladies and gentlemen, in a context in which the price of oil is rising more and more every day and, therefore, also the price of gas, Spain has not been prepared either at industrial level or in innovation or in recharge infrastructures for the massive use of electric cars. We are behind Europe in this too. That is why the Socialists have tabled amendments to remedy these enormous shortcomings and this lack of an energy policy model. Firstly, an amendment to move ahead with the energy transition, which must, as I have said, be a fair transition. That is why we must start acting long before the plants are closed as a result of European demands. We must act before it is too late, and our multi-annual plan is the need for the areas that are engaged in this conversion. We have incorporated a number of amendments to ensure that the coal plan for boosting and revitalizing mining areas is finally implemented. They have been six years behind schedule and constant non-compliances; it is a hairpin for those who are waiting for a clear response and necessary investments. There are also amendments which are ridiculous if they have voted other than, for example, the city of Leon's energy. I would like to know what the Leon Members will vote for this amendment and what they will defend in their territory when they have to do so. Socialists want - and that is why we have signed with all political groups except you and your competing directors and, however, partners - to support self-consumption and distributed generation, the participation of citizens in the generation and responsible consumption of energy. This requires fair and non-variable remuneration from the decisions of his Government. These vavenes are supposed to be based on false savings that are not compared to the economic cost of legal uncertainty. Minister, one day you will have to come here and tell what the cost of Spanish legal uncertainty is, not only in international litigation, which is already, but also in loss of potential investments. We are not a reliable country, unfortunately, because of political decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, sectoral policies can and must, in our view, also play a role in combating inequalities. It is therefore necessary for the Government of Spain to have a budgetary instrument to finance basic supplies to vulnerable families. That is why we have asked for funding for the social bonus, an Internet access bonus and, yes, ladies and gentlemen, especially for women, although some still think that they access the Internet on equal terms. It's not like that either. Specific programmes are needed at a very low cost to the Government, but with a very high value for equal opportunities between men and women. The Socialists have been defending the comprehensive approach to the phenomenon of inequality, which, thanks to its passage through the Government, has only shot itself, putting Spain on the frontline of the most unequal countries in Europe. This deserves the involvement of all but, above all, the Government and its partners, who are blind to the reality of the most disadvantaged people. I'm finishing up. Another obvious issue for the Government is that the tourism sector continues to have enormous potential that needs to be developed. The privileged geopolitical situation that Spain has at the moment should serve as a stimulus to continue to take measures to boost inland tourism and rural tourism, but you again deny the possibility of carrying out an ambitious plan that contributes to the fight against depopulation and also show your disinterest in one of the most important projects for Spanish tourism, that of Paradores, because you still do not want to invest what is right in a network that has allowed many rural areas to change completely and become an international tourist destination, which has meant a before and after in its economic structure. I'm telling you because I know him well. Do you know the meaning of the words territorial cohesion, Minister? You should also be concerned about territorial cohesion. It is obvious that they despise it, because they have in their hands easy and cheap tools to make that cohesion possible and do nothing. These budgets and their attitude to our amendments show once again that they do not have a clear plan in any of these areas, that they do not know the potential for economic growth, modernisation, job creation and equality that can provide the right transition, adaptation to the digitalisation of the economy and the boost to the tourist sector in the interior. They don't care or they don't know. At least let yourself be advised by those who are clear about it and not to veto, but to vote in favour of our amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u17	Thank you very much. At the time of the establishment of positions by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about the negotiation of budgets which, in general terms, are expansive, including tax cuts and the recovery of the social sign, all thanks to the negotiation of my party with the government party. There is one thing we should expose, and it is that we often go up to the rostrum to complain, complain and complain and maybe we should start negotiating to turn those complaints into reality. As for section 20 and this ministry, obviously - many of you know it and those of you who do not move it - it is a ministry whose major part is regulatory, but we still have to talk about an increase of 300 million euros for this year. In all agreements there are things we like and things we don't like. We like the increase of 200 million euros for the resources of the ministry, in particular for the staff part; we also like that increase of 6 million euros for energy efficiency through IDAE, because investing in energy efficiency is a future investment that not only has economic return but also has social return. We also like the increase of 20 million euros in support of industry and electricity supply in that sector. It must be acknowledged and remembered that this sector not only provides quality employment but also stable employment. We think it is very positive that the commitment of the reform of the CNMC is taken up; we believe that it is necessary to return the competences to the CNMC and that the regulator should be given more autonomy. For us - and we defend it without complexes - independent regulators will make our policy more effective and less biased. And, of course, we also like the increase of almost 2 million euros for potable plants in the Canary Islands, from which I come. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u20	Thank you, Madam President. We do not like, however, that part of the energy surplus that has been expanded so far, although there is always a part that goes towards investing in renewable energy, is destined to pay for the various international arbitrations. Just a few days ago we dropped the third conviction, which not only leaves Spain in a bad place, but still sends the message that here, unfortunately, it is still improvised and, instead of using that money for citizens to pay less, we end up paying fines, and that is not good. We also regret the Government's veto of the UPN amendment on reasonable profitability. We had already spoken to them and committed ourselves to supporting this and all their amendments. We regret the veto that has been imposed on this amendment of reasonable profitability, but we will take into account the transactional that the UPN party has also arrived at with other political parties. In the area of tourism, it is in the budgets that the aim is to understand that the promotion has to be adequate and has to value the assets and potentials of our country. There is very little talk of tourism in the gallery and much less in the Commission, because it is understood that, as everything is going well, there is no need to talk, without realizing that all periods are cyclical, that curves go up and down and that if we are not predictors and do something to avoid the possible fall according to the international destinations that are direct competitors we will not be making good planning. The increase of EUR 16 million for tourism training programmes, the increase of EUR 7 million for the autonomous communities in this area and the increase of more than EUR 500 000 per year for scholarships for students studying tourism should also be highlighted. Thanks to the work of all our territorial committees, I would like to name an amendment on the tourism sector which I believe is good for the Balearic Islands, in particular for the island of Ibiza. It is this €500 000 item for the new Parador in Dalt Vila, which will not only add more value to this tourist destination, but also to all of Ibiza's society. [[Applauds]] As for the digital agenda, there is an increase of more than €90 million in investments that is indispensable for us to invest in e-Administration, because with its digitisation we will not only be allowed to reduce our waiting times in the huge queues we make every day in the Administration or to go from one side to another, but also to make life easier for all our citizens. And we want to highlight the transfer to the Barcelona Mobile World Capital Foundation, of five million euros. We are committed to the city of Barcelona, we are committed to an autonomous community like Catalonia, which is suffering from the blockade... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u21	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u22	... by different irresponsible politicians, who, instead of thinking about their citizenship and attracting wealth, continue to think about their navel and the political blockade. Having said that, I would like to point out that something very important about the digital divide is to end the rural divide. The expansion of connectivity to all these areas is a commitment to the rural sector, which will also ensure that the depopulation that the rural sector is suffering can be alleviated. I have to answer to my colleagues. First of all, I have to tell the gentlemen of the United-Can we talk about what we consider and when we consider, or are you going to decide a priori the issues we need to talk about? The amendments do not go to the weight. I would love it if instead of coming here angry every day they came with proactive capacity and wanted to negotiate, but maybe it's a lot to ask for for some people or for some parties that are not used to negotiating, working and reaching agreements; the complaint is always much simpler. The Socialist Party was talking about justice. Are they referring to the justice applied by the Socialist Party when it scammed small producers of photovoltaics? Are they referring to the debt justice we have assumed, of more than EUR 30 billion, for irresponsible policies by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, which today we are paying all the citizens of this country on the bill of light, with the consequent legal uncertainty for our sector? If that is the justice to which they refer, I prefer to work for another justice. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that, obviously, in a period of negotiation of something as important as the General Budgets of the State, we cannot agree to one hundred percent in all, but it is much easier to come up with a touch of weight amendments, without wanting to negotiate, without wanting to talk, without wanting to reach agreements, than to sit down, talk, negotiate and try to make budgets turn around and not only have a social character, but also to respond to the needs of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u24	Thank you, Madam President. After listening to the parliamentary groups who do not want to support these budgets, I believe that, unfortunately, they have clearly given up contributing to the growth and economic sustainability of our country, and I do not know why. I believe that they have remained in the 19th century, to overthrow governments, to go against laws and to renounce building, collaborating and cooperating, as my parliamentary group has done with seven other political forces. Furthermore, I believe that the budgets have not been properly read, and that is a pity. I am thinking, for example, of the spokesman for Podemos, who has said that we do not agree on sustainable development and that we do not want equal or equal access to the Internet, when much of the Podemos Group's amendments are against the extension of broadband, which is one of the objectives of my parliamentary group. I do not know what is the reason that motivates them to avoid a government taking forward budgets that, without a doubt, will help to improve the lives of all Spaniards. With regard to energy, it is clear that we are following a route based primarily on the financial and economic sustainability of the system and, therefore, on achieving a more affordable bill for all Spaniards and making our industry competitive and on ensuring security of supply and, of course, environmental sustainability. Once we have managed to curb the tariff deficit, which amounted to EUR 28 billion in our country; once we have managed to reduce the Spanish's bill, which would have been more than EUR 175 billion if we had not made the pending reform, we are betting on efficiency and savings as our country's main source of energy, through the National Energy Efficiency Fund; on sustainable mobility, with a budget allocation of more than EUR 50 million; and, of course, on the growth of renewable energy, which could be manifested by the auction of 8000 megawatts last year. Moreover, this year we also incorporate in the amendment the additional provision one hundred and twenty-sixth, which incorporates 60 million euros of the surplus - i.e. surplus, because since 2014 it is what is in the Spanish electricity system - so that in the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands the access to renewable energy will grow exponentially and, therefore, the bill for not only the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, but for all Spaniards, CO2 emissions will be reduced and we will contribute to the sustainability of the energy system. [[Applauds]] We sincerely believe in the commitment to competitive industry, to high-quality industrial employment, to higher wages and longer duration. We therefore do not know why this idea of reducing the energy costs of the intensive electricity industry by 120 million has not been mentioned by any parliamentary group. As far as tourism is concerned, we believe that this economic force is the most important and the wealth it generates in our country, and it must continue to be so. For this reason, we have a budget that deepens sustainability, through ecotourism, and that fundamentally establishes a strategic marketing plan that will mobilize more than €1.5 billion between 2018 and 2020 to attract new customers and ensure that those who have come to our country will do so again. The budget also deepens connectivity and is therefore committed to increasing the number of routes to our country and the internationalization of this sector. It is clear that, as my group's tourism spokesperson, Carmen Navarro, recently said, the good management that is being done, for example, in Paradores, where, with a 2017 financial year closure of 260 million euros, we have a surplus in this public company of 17 million euros. I say this figure, because when we arrived at the government in 2011 the deficit was 20 million euros. The management capacity of the political group I am defending today is therefore endorsed once again. It seems strange that the parliamentary groups have paid little attention to the Digital Agenda, without a doubt the main instrument, in our view, for the change of economic model. We do not know whether this is because, perhaps - as Mrs Marcos recently said in the Committee on Budgets - they have discovered that this discrepancy only serves to delay the future of all Spaniards. Will that be the last reason why we should not mention at all what constitutes an advance in equal opportunities, such as the Plan 300 x 100, which the minister has perfectly explained before, that is to say, to bring broadband, Internet speed, to each and every municipality of Spain before 2021? It seems to me that this is an achievement that we should share with all parliamentary groups if we really believe in equal opportunities as one of the basic principles of the political agenda. It also seems to me relevant to the financial contribution that is made with regard to cybersecurity, with the increase in assets for the city of León - indeed, it has been mentioned by a parliamentary group that there are no budgets for León - which means the budget increase of the Incibe, National Institute of Cybersecurity, clear bet by that autonomous community and - even more important than the autonomous community - for the security in the Internet space of all Spaniards. We also believe that everything that has to do with the Digitalisation Plan for cities is relevant, which will reduce costs, improve the quality of life for all Spaniards and adapt to a new industry that will allow more prepared young people to enter the labour market than there were until recently. Why? Because there is also a budget heading for training in digital skills, with more than EUR 60 million, which will help boost training and employment, as well as the entry into this new market for young people. Finally, I would like to say to you that it seems important to us to refer to the contribution of EUR 5 million to the Mobile World Congress. I believe it is essential to ensure that one of the main international congresses in our country will continue to be held in Spain, in the city of Barcelona. This is a determined bet from a government that has managed to reduce the digital distance and put us above France, Germany or Italy not only in broadband access, but also in everything that is perceived in the digital economy and society index. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u25	Thank you very much. We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on sections 15, Finance and Public Service, and 36, Territorial Entity Financing Systems. For the presentation of the sections, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take this floor in the Chamber of Deputies to defend section 15 of the draft General State Budgets for the Ministry of Finance and Public Service and section 36, which contains the appropriations for the system of financing of territorial entities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u27	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u28	I would also like to express at this event my satisfaction and appreciation for the fact that one more year we can present to Spanish society budgets with which we intend to further strengthen the economic recovery and job creation that our country is experiencing. In this way we can continue to drive policies that improve growth, that make it more balanced and healthier and above all that translate into new employment opportunities - more than 470,000 jobs will be created in 2018-, while strengthening services in the hands of the state, public services and especially the services of the welfare state, as budgets consolidate social spending and transfer the benefits of economic recovery to citizens. As I say, defending these budgets in Parliament is in itself a source of satisfaction because the difficulties we face every day because of the complex composition of this House are not preventing the government and groups of different political signs from speaking and agreeing on matters that are essential for the political stability of Spain, such as the State's response to the Catalan independence challenge or, in this case, to the parliamentary handling of the draft budget itself. The political stability of Spain interests us all in this House. We are interested in the stability of all those who believe in a country based on the rule of law, freedom, democracy, the state of autonomy and the state of well-being. We are interested in the stability of all those who believe in this Spain united in its diversity and integrated into the Europe of the euro, against those who want to break that unity and integration and against those who have mortgaged their principles. We are particularly interested in stability for the citizens, because it is this stability that allows us to continue to grow, create jobs and improve the country in the face of the risks and turbulences in which certain political formations, populisms and anti-European positions are committed within and outside our borders, as is also being shown in other countries in our environment. It is therefore important for the Government to express on behalf of those groups, which are committed to stability, our appreciation for their sense of responsibility and their sense of State in the face of the challenges we do not face. This morning, I would like to thank more specifically for the support that the same formations that supported them last year are expected to give, and that there are a sufficient majority of Members to make the budgets a reality for the Spanish people in the coming weeks. I am aware that for some groups it is not easy to commit to certain policies because every decision we make carries a risk and also because almost every week there are surveys that ensure that the pulse of the street is reflected. But we have to get used to putting the culture of the pact in place, as we are already doing, lest we read so much demoscopic analysis and end up giving more importance to changing opinions that reflect than to the very people we should serve and help through the policies we develop. That is why it is good that we put people at the centre of our work and that in this way we negotiate and agree at least on the major state policies, which are priorities for the country's march, thus becoming usual what was once exceptional. The citizens asked us at the polls and it is the citizens who need us to agree to push forward those public policies that benefit the whole population. It is clear that each group responds to different conceptions, to different strategies and that our programmatic priorities do not always coincide, but it is also clear that we have already demonstrated our ability to dialogue and reach agreements when dealing with important issues and when that dialogue and agreement improve people's lives, as is the case here in the processing of budgets. Let us therefore see this support from disparate groups for the draft General Budgets of the State which the Government has presented as a commitment of all of us to the citizens, not only to the Government. After all, it is these citizens who will be favoured by the benefits of recovery, by improving public services, by raising incomes for lower wages, by raising pensions, by improving public employment, by creating jobs, by improving taxation and, in short, by the political stability that makes all this possible. I sincerely believe that we can offer the citizens budgets which, if they were already good when they were passed as a bill in the Council of Ministers, have greatly improved in the subsequent negotiations and in the subsequent submission of amendments, and also these days they are doing so here, in the call for plenary of this Congress of Deputies. Almost two hundred and sixty amendments, as I say, have improved the Government's original draft on various issues, some of which I have already announced in the full debate after being agreed hours earlier. In a very brief way I am talking, for example, about the improvement of pensions, which we have also achieved when we brought the draft budget law, for all pensioners in Spain, thus defending the general interest and demonstrating that there are political formations that think not only of the territory where they are operating but also in the context of the general interest of the State in which all the territories and all the citizens who make up it coexist; I am also talking about the extension of the paternity permit of public employees from four to five weeks, expandable according to the number of children; of tax benefits for the holding of different public events; of the improvement of sponsorship for the activities of the ONCE Foundation or of the exemption of the lotteries tax for certain prizes, following an amendment that has been negotiated between the People's Group and that of Citizens. Amendments have also been adopted in the Committee on Budgets to strengthen the agreements signed by the State Lotteries and State Betting Corporation with the Spanish Red Cross and the Spanish Cancer Association, as well as new investments in different territories. There are also improvements in VAT for certain tele-assistance and residential, transport and tourism services, as well as in the items relating to the use of the budget surplus of local authorities and autonomous communities. I would like to congratulate the parliamentary groups for the work they have done these days, which has reflected the interest they have shown from the outset in bringing their ideas to the draft law against those who, also legitimately, have only decided to reject the Government's initiative. I am convinced that one of the virtues of these budgets has to do precisely with that dialogue, with the negotiation and with the contributions made since the first day. He said that a large part of the draft had already been negotiated at the Council of Ministers' table, even when we negotiated the so-called spending ceiling last summer; we had spoken in an already very intense way with other political groups both in the weeks leading up to the adoption of the bill and in the course of the division of the objective of stability and the state spending limit. In addition, its content included the agreement reached by the Government with the public service unions that we signed shortly after we had also sealed another agreement with the social representatives, that of the improvement of the interprofessional minimum wage for this year and for the rest of the legislature, as well as the agreement reached with local entities for the improvement of financially sustainable investments. In addition to dialogue and negotiation, this bill has much to do with the work well done, with the work that has made possible its elaboration, of course, but above all with the work that we have done also in the last six and a half years and whose fruits allow us today to present budgets with these characteristics. Little or nothing of what we can do today through these accounts would be possible without the economic recovery that Spain is experiencing and the improvement of the incomes of people who depend on public money, public income, the financing of territorial administrations or new investments and the record financing that all administrations will receive in order to be able to devote it to social spending. All this would not be possible without the economic recovery we are experiencing. So we have before us budgets which, in order to be born and to be able to enter into force, have, on the one hand, the DNA of negotiation and political agreement and, on the other hand, the DNA of economic recovery. Without the first, its approval would be impossible; without the second, without the resources provided by economic recovery, it would be impossible to sustain its content. It is therefore essential that we be constant and insist on that path, which, as we have seen, is very successful. It is therefore essential that we continue to work together on the path of reducing the public deficit to finally lower the 3% of GDP threshold this year and on reducing the public debt because only in this way can we maintain economic growth, the confidence that Spain is generating within and outside our borders and that we can add that almost half a million new jobs that we need so much in our country to continue to reduce employment rates and create a society of equal opportunities for all. [[Rumors]] The forecast of tax revenues is that they grow by 6% compared to 2017, which is a slightly lower percentage than the 6.4 that grew the previous year. We believe that this revenue forecast is perfectly reasonable and consistent with the economic recovery we are experiencing, with a growth forecast for this year of 2.7 of GDP and 4.3 of GDP in nominal terms. In this way, the expected revenues already support the sustainability of the markedly social measures included in the draft General State Budgets and the fulfilment of the budgetary objectives that they know have the ambition to reach 2.2%. Revenue developments in the first few months of the year are in this direction, as net tax revenues grew by 6.6 per cent in March compared to March of the previous year, in particular gross VAT revenue grew by 7.8 per cent in March and net VAT revenue from the new VAT information system grew by 4.2 per cent. [[Rumors]] I can also tell you that next week the tax agency's data on collection will be published in April. The tax revenues for the month of April - which is a very important month in terms of the total collection of the year - grew by 6.6% compared to the month of April of the previous year, as is already the case in March. I would like to highlight to you that the biggest growth is in income from labour retention and economic activities, both in SMEs and large enterprises, and then in the good behaviour that VAT continues to have. We are faced with a job creation which is already reflected particularly in the retention of labour performance in SMEs and large enterprises. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u29	Quiet, please. Silence, silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to point out to you that these are the budgets which programme that, in application of the existing autonomous financing system, there will be EUR 4 billion new for the autonomous communities, which means that in the total of the autonomous financing we will reach historical maximums and will lead us to exactly a financing of the autonomous communities of EUR 105,020 million. In this regard, it will be higher than what the autonomous communities themselves received in 2009, which was the year of approval of the financing system, with the great difference that in 2009 what produced the new financing system was a very large public deficit in all public administrations of 11 per cent and a negative liquidation of the autonomous communities on behalf of the State, which we are still awaiting today and have made the consequent postponements. In addition, the bill empowers the Government to promote a restructuring of the autonomous and local debt with the General Administration of the State. This is something that we are subject to prior consideration by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission for Local Administration and also to the Airef report, as negotiated and agreed in the budget process; therefore, it is something that we will do together with the political groups, at least with those who are supporting the General Budgets of the State. They know that the Government's intention is to convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission of Local Government soon to build on the start of the negotiation of the new system of autonomous financing and local financing and to discuss the essential content within both bodies. That content, however, would come as a law to this House and would therefore always be subject to the same negotiation and, in this case, to the incorporation of the second group in this House, the Socialist Party, because, as I repeatedly insist, we cannot update the autonomous and local funding without the Socialist Party, given the importance it has in this House, but also taking into account the fact that it governs seven autonomous communities and thousands of municipalities in our country. The improvement of the civil service is another of the extremes contained in the bill that has also been updated in the parliamentary negotiation. I would like to recall that the content already brings a salary agreement that is very important because it is the first time that the evolution of public salaries is linked to economic growth and to the correction of the public deficit and, therefore, it is planning an increase not only for 2018 but also for 2019 and 2020, that is, for the whole of the legislature, as well as the commitment of a more agile and effective administration, putting within that administration what is the action of the State Tax Administration Agency, which is one of the great institutions of the State, which is absolutely fundamental in the financing of all our public administrations and which is carrying out very effective management, both in terms of the ordinary management - this collection of what we have talked about in this draft law would not be feasible without the effective management of the Tax Agency and in particular of the more than 25 000 officials who make up that agency present throughout Spain - as in terms of effective management in the fight against fraud that, as your lords know, has achieved its six best results in the last six years, from 2012 to 2017, in which the government of Mariano Rajo has given an impetus to these actions. In this draft law there is a forecast of an increase of 1% and I want to tell you that, because of the data we know of the Tax Agency itself of the evolution of the collection in the first four months of the year, until April, there is a very intense advance because a collection is being obtained from January to April of 5030 million euros that come to represent a growth of 15% compared to the increase of the collection against tax fraud in the same period last year. Other highlights of section 15 are those that they have there and it is the entire operation of a ministry whose function is also logistical to a large extent and of service to the whole Government with very important actions in the field of public enterprise, the General Directorate of State Heritage, the State Mobile Park and also to deal with property responsibilities arising from various judgments, such as the return of the health cent that is also programmed there and that may continue to appear in terms of the decisions made by our courts. In particular, the expected amount of payments for the financial liability of the health cent for the return is EUR 500 million. Finally, Madam President, aware that these speeches must take up a limited period of time, we are not in the general debate on the budgets, so I shall finish. But I do not want to do so without reiterating my appreciation and that of the Government for the work done by the House's Committee on Budgets and the parliamentary groups in the handling of this bill. It is fair to acknowledge the services of the House, the lawyers and the technical services, which have done a very meritorious job since, obviously, the disposition of the parliamentary groups and the operational content is not easy, nobody escapes, it was not already last year and it has not been again this year. But that is reason to invite everyone to get involved in the process of this plenary session of the Congress, as they are also doing with the adoption of compromise amendments - very important - that involve improvements in laws, improvements in the living conditions of people, of the Spaniards, so that that is maintained and can see the light very soon. As on other occasions, I wish to show the willingness and commitment of the Government to dialogue and achieve the highest goals for our country at a time in our history when we must work together so that the uncertainties that we want to create some cannot afford the good prospects that our economy offers us, nor the illusions and hopes of a future that millions of Spaniards have after a very difficult stage that we are finally getting to leave behind. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u31	Thank you very much. In the defence of amendments, Mr Candela Serna has the floor first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll start with a letter. Mr De la Torre, it is so true that Compromís has no members in the Committee on Budgets as it is that you should not act as personal secretary to the Minister of Energy in the Committee on Budgets, but good. One more year. One more year without reform of the autonomous financing system; one more year maintaining discrimination against all Valencian citizens. And it is that to the discrimination that all Valencians cause us the budgets of Mr Montoro, Mr Albert Rivera and also Mr Aitor Esteban, the historical - and I say historical because it is many years ago - underfunding the Valencian people. As you all know, the case of the Valencian Community is a rare opinion within the autonomous communities, since being a community with a lower per capita GDP, it contributes to the system as if it were a rich community. This synergy, together with the under-investment of Mr Montoro's State General Budgets, is an extremely worrying financial and economic suffocation. But in spite of all this, despite the fact that there is no collaboration on the part of the State, the Valencian Community is moving forward and recovering at a rapid pace, and mainly because it is not stolen. Here I'd like to make a letter. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, when you speak of indoctrination you speak - I imagine - of homogenizing attitudes and thoughts, behaviors, ultimately that are all the same. I say this because today the umpteenth position in the People's Party, in this case former Labour Minister Eduardo Zaplana for money laundering, has been arrested. When they want to look for indoctrination cases ask where they have studied all the PP's charges, because apparently they have a very long hand and a very hard face, but, well. You, Mr Montoro, will tell us again that this year there is surely reform, that there has not been so far because the issue of Catalonia has not been resolved. Finally, Mr Montoro, I should like to end by saying that in order to fix the financing for the PNV, you did have time and did not care very much about the question of Catalonia, which, by the way, even if it is not, Mr Esteban, you said that you would not vote in favour of the budgets until 155 was raised. In case you want to rethink something, you're playing the credibility or the word given and I know it's very important to you. I'm done, Mr. Montoro. It is possible that its Secretary of State for Finance will not be able to start negotiating a system of autonomous financing because, apparently, it is also imputed and has to testify before the judge. So we ask him one thing: to give himself air and stop crying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u34	Thank you very much, President. Minister, first of all, it is a bit funny to hear some citizen spokesperson from this rostrum saying that Catalonia is immersed in a paralysis by independent politicians. Man, as a tweet reminded us recently, we independent politicians have tabled one thousand and five hundred amendments to this budget, of which approximately one thousand refer to Catalonia. Citizens have presented four. Citizens had the largest number of deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia and their leader did not appear. I don't know who's paralysing Catalonia. In any case, Minister, we have tabled six amendments to this section. I am grateful for the congratulations to the Committee on Budgets, we continue to work, we have not yet made any amendments and I hope that this can be resolved before the budgets are finalised. I will not deny you merit for your work over these years, I will not do as your citizens' partners, you have done things right in the government and we do not hurt you to recognize it when it is so and things that you have not done well and with which we absolutely disagree. Among those we understand that we cannot share is this constant promise to reform the financing of local corporations and to reform the financing of the autonomous communities. You can say it's Catalonia's fault, but a year ago and two, three and four years ago, since they're promising it, it wasn't Catalonia's fault. It's not Catalonia's fault now either. So they had a solid majority, now they don't have a solid majority, but the reality is this. In any case, if you bring these two projects to the House, we will study them and we will work to improve them. There are six amendments in total, but two in particular, one that attempts to recover the State's contribution to the Single Plan for Works and Services in Catalonia - this contribution had existed during many budgets, disappeared in 2012 and has not reappeared - and another is to provide a fund for municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, a special funding fund to address the problems of these municipalities. This fund also appeared until 2011 in the General Budgets of the State and then disappeared again. If we had a new funding system for local corporations, we could assess whether or not we need it, but since we don't have it, we understand that we also need it. In any case, I support these six amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u36	Good morning. Abundant in the paralysis that Citizens repeats as an argument of whistle thinking, today Microsoft has announced for Barcelona its first quantum laboratory. If this is war, don't let peace come. Mr Minister, yesterday we missed you and you will find in the minutes of the sitting some questions that I would appreciate you to answer. I only share with you - I suppose that will reassure you - your congratulations to the services of the House. We have been arguing that the 2018 State General Budgets consolidate a state model characterized by revenues derived from a tax level which is mainly assessed by labour income and not by capital income, especially by the middle and lower classes, and in which the fiscal effort of the economic world is focused on pursuing small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed enterprises and in which large enterprises pay a much lower effective rate. Moreover, the budgets are being drawn up distorting the level of revenue, as Airef has been reiterating, and it does not see a specific effort in the fight against fraud, evasion and tax evasion. In this exercise, and as has already been the custom during the years of the People's Party government, Hacienda has done several washings of public accounts to disguise what is actually another year of cuts. I suppose what you call Catalan challenge must also be responsible for it. What will become of you without the challenge? Who's he gonna blame? However, the tax system, in addition to not providing sufficient resources to develop the social spending policies that society needs, does not contribute to the redistribution of wealth generated through GDP growth, and the Spanish State continues to have high indicators of poverty and inequality, it continues to be necessary to promote a more progressive, fair and transparent fiscal policy, with a greater weight of indirect taxation and a lower contribution from direct taxes, especially that of companies, and the State General Budgets that you and Citizens have devised do not help this. Moreover, the expenditure ceiling that marks the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the three-year period 2018-2020 remains lower than at the beginning of the crisis, when austerity policies forced by Brussels for the repeated breaches of the Spanish Government, as always arbitrarily distributed among the various administrations, remain the greatest capacity to generate deficits for the State, rather than for the administrations that carry out social investment in education, health, social policies, etc. As far as expenditure is concerned, the fact is that these public accounts follow the policy of adjusting the belt to the citizens. Thus, while the economy is growing by 2.7 per cent in real terms, social investment is only increasing by 1.1 per cent. Public expenditure included in the budgets is down to 40.5%, which also means moving further away from the European average, which is around 46%. This reduction represents the fifth consecutive year of reductions despite the growth in pension expenditure. But economic growth, coupled with significant savings in unemployment expenditure, means that the level of expenditure relative to GDP is actually falling. By 2018, the figure will be 16.2%, away from the 18% that rubbed 2013 or the 17% that was in 2015. A detailed examination of spending policies shows that almost all sections of social investment experience cuts or increases below the nominal growth of the economy. Thus, health and education items will be contracted for a third consecutive year, a strategy that allows the Executive to reduce the burden of expenditure on total GDP. With regard to section 36, systems of financing of territorial entities, from the Group of the Republican Left we want to point out that many people who often ask us what has been lost in the General Budgets of the State have to remember that, to our regret, we have lost a lot, we have lost everything. Some also ask why we have not participated in the committees for the negotiation of a new funding model. In this sense we explain that, from experience, none of the financing models has managed to solve a historical constant, almost a physical constant, as is the generation of a fiscal deficit of 8% of GDP in Catalonia. After almost ten years since the approval of the current funding system, statutory reforms - brushed statutory reforms - we continue at exactly the same point as when the Institute of Fiscal Studies - its - estimated exactly the same fiscal deficit. And it's just that the history of autonomous financing has been a history of non-compliance. You know the data surely, the Valencian Institute of Economic Research figures it at 84 500 euros between 2010 and 2015, is not bad. This makes it easy to meet the deficit targets that, by the way, had already been managed well enough to meet from the General Administration of the State. Within the framework of the common autonomous financing there is, and never will be, room for a minimally fair agreement for Catalonia, for the Balearic Islands and for the Valencia Country. You guys make some rules, and if they don't get the numbers, they'll skip it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Montoro, I thought that we were basically going to have a repetitive debate because we debated last week in the Committee on Budgets, we debated the whole thing a while ago and we had appearances from different government figures, but we are always subject to the contingencies that, as your name indicates, happen without waiting for them and some of us are even surprised by some things that should have stopped surprising us a long time ago. This morning it has been known that the Civil Guard is investigating evidence of signs of various crimes that could be attributed to different people, including José Enrique Fernández de Moya. He is your number two, Mr Montoro, he is one of the people who came here to present and defend the budgets; he is one of the people who have written these budgets and, therefore, he is one of the people responsible for what you are defending today. But the Civil Guard is investigating him for the various crimes: continuous prevarication, documentary falsity, misappropriation, covetousness and trafficking in influence. And it's not the communist hordes or what you call the blunt left that has found these clues but that has been done by the Civil Guard. I have to ask you in a budget debate and in section 15, Finance, if you continue to have confidence in the Secretary of State for Finance, in a person who seems to be involved in this type of crime and who is responsible, nothing more and nothing less, than for budgetary policy - together with you - which is being defended here today, that many groups are going to vote in favour, others are going to vote against and that ultimately reflects that budgets are not only substantive policies but are also people who defend them and the confidence that can be held in them or in them. Because it turns out that this gentleman, Mr Fernández de Moya, is also a symbol; it is also a symbol because he was, now that we discussed section 15, Finance and local entities, in the mayor's office of Jaén, of the People's Party - a place you know very well because, moreover, I think he is of Jaén - and he left 550 million euros of debt; that mayor's office failed to comply with the rule of spending but, exceptionally, Finance did not intervene the City of Jaén. Interestingly, this person was responsible for the intervention - on his behalf, Mr Montoro - in the City of Madrid for failing to comply with the rule of expenditure. Contradictions, inconsistencies, inconsistencies and, in the end, a truly fateful scenario that I think reflects very well this budget debate. Ultimately, what we tell him is that we don't know when he's going to resign, but let's hope this person resigns. It is your number two, we are in the budget debate and you are being charged with a series of crimes sufficiently serious to undermine confidence in these budgets. Budgets that, on the other hand, we substantially amend, we amend the whole of this section and the whole of them, as we have seen in previous weeks, for various reasons, such as, for example, the orientation of economic policy and, as I have just mentioned, the outline and framework within which the margin of local entities and autonomous communities is restricted and constricted, the maintenance of the expenditure rule and the maintenance of the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act. They are all elements that make these budgets even worse. But it turns out that these budgets still, within that framework, I insist, already harmful as we have said over and over again, consolidate the cuts initiated in 2010 not only in the area of income and expenditure, that is, how the burden of public investment on gross domestic product is being cut, but also in a tax policy derived from income that is truly contrary to the spirit of the Constitution in its article 31 which states that they must pay more those who have more. With its successive fiscal reforms that have been implementing - with the exception of one that did slightly increase fiscal progressivity - as a net balance over the past few years, what they have done is that today the tax system is much more unfair than that which existed, for example, in 2010. This is burdensome for the public coffers and unfair for the entire society that sees that article 31 is not complied with, that is, without any kind of attitude on the part of government entities for a breach of the Constitution. In our view, that non-compliance is very clear here, as was also the tax amnesty that you yourself did and that, after that, the Constitutional Court had to remind you, even if it had no effect whatsoever on reality, which we also find very serious. In short, we are faced with a section, section 15, which is also linked to local entities, which shows the maintenance of an economic policy of cuts in public services in relation to gross domestic product, i.e. in relative terms; an increase in inequality in all its aspects; an inability to combat tax fraud, as we have recalled in previous weeks, since resources are not adequately allocated to the fight against tax fraud and, in fact, the few resources that exist are primarily devoted to small fraudsters and not to the big ones who are the most money-managers and who would be the ones who would be able to raise much more. We are also faced with this attitude of dealing absolutely unequally with the local entities and the autonomous communities with regard to the policy of the Government. All of this is a philosophy consistent with and consistent with the Government's proposals, as it told the European Union, to continue cutting the social state and public services. I recognize that it is consistent and consistent with his ideology, not so much with his propaganda as, of course, it is a totally different issue that has more to do with deception. It is obvious that the document that the Government sent to the European Union systematically said that public expenditure on gross domestic product had to be reduced, that if it was devoted to health or education - the numbers are there - it had to be reduced in relation to gross domestic product. This is evidence that you have declared. These budgets are consistent with that, but we believe that it is harmful to all citizens and working families. If that is substantial policy, we also believe that, as we have an integral vision of policy, it has a lot to do with people and the ethical point of who make these budgets. That's why I started where I started. I don't think today is a good day for you, I don't think so, but, in my opinion, you should go out and explain. It is his number two that they are investigating for these crimes, which are not any kind of crime and, above all, while he was mayor of his own hometown. I believe that if you want to maintain, although from the ideological discrepancy, the credibility of your own project in the budgets and not tarnish the image of these General State Budgets, I insist, from the ideological discrepancy with them, you should resign your number two, which is with which we had to debate in the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and who represented your Government, represented your policy. You did not say or say much in your initial intervention today even though you already know that data and having had the opportunity to make it very clear that these General State Budgets representing all Spaniards should not be linked to a person of whom the Civil Guard says that it does not have one but more than five crimes for which it is being investigated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u40	Good morning, Mr. Montoro, ladies and gentlemen. In our view, the fiscal policy contained in these budgets has two very important factors. Firstly, the effort made by the Spaniards to implement a tax reduction policy and, secondly, the political will we have achieved to start returning the sacrifices to the citizens who were going through the worst and to make taxpayers between EUR 12 000 and EUR 14 000 stop paying the IRPF with considerable savings and this reduction extends to those who earn between EUR 14 000 and EUR 18 000. This which the least-winners contribute less may seem wrong to the left, although I honestly don't understand it. That is, Mr Garzón said a moment ago that the system was more progressive in 2010 than it is now. The Spanish tax system in 2010 raised 159 billion euros; last year 197 billion; and left us a deficit of 9% that led to countless hacks and cuts in 2011 and 2012. Frankly, I prefer a sensible fiscal policy to spend what is not available and that is what we have achieved in these and previous budgets because, ladies and gentlemen, last year, for the first time in a decade, the deficit targets were met and in this 2018 we can proceed to lower taxes, including the only tax that I have seen defend Mr Garzón, who is the VAT on cinema, which also goes into these budgets. And yet your parliamentary group's only concern when it comes to talking about taxes is about the VAT of bulls, which is probably the most relevant issue of all, is what your group did when it came here. [[Rumors]] Well, these budgets mean, in our opinion, political stability and growth and in addition to the reduction of the IRPF - which, by the way, if the tax is reduced by those who pay less and those who pay more still pay the same, the tax is more progressive, not less - and as is the main tax of our system, the tax system is more progressive. What happens is that there are different ways to achieve progressiveness. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u41	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u42	Secondly, on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of both the Socialist Party and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, it is purely and simply to pretend to carry the tax burden even in times of recovery in which they earn less. In addition to this issue we also have relevant tax reductions such as the increase in deductions by large family, by dependent disabled spouse and some agreements that we have reached during processing with the People's Party, such as the increase in deduction by business angels or the greater exemption in lottery prizes or the exemption from split payments to venture capital companies according to our model of promoting growth capital and investment in Spain. In any case, these budgets enable pensions to be updated to 1.6%, public employees' salaries to be increased, the Civil Guard's salary equalization to begin, and a more sensible fiscal policy in general. If these budgets go forward, all that will happen; if not, we will have a tremendously restrictive situation, with an increase in pensions of 0.25, linear for everyone, and not like now, that most pensions will increase to 1.6%, but minimum pensions to 3%; there will be no tax reduction or salary increase for public employees, nor will there be €4 billion for the autonomous communities, which is money that can be spent on health and education. For all these reasons, we believe that these budgets must be supported. On the other hand, it seems to us relevant that, thanks to the agreement and our requirement in the investment agreement, the staffing of the Tax Agency is increased for the first time. This is a subject that tax agency employees have been claiming for years, and rightly so. Since the governments of the Socialist Party, there were fewer and fewer people dedicated to fighting fraud, and this had been consolidated while the PP had absolute majority, but we have managed to change this situation so that there are more means in the fight against fraud. We also believe - this is also missing from the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and it seems that it is not a priority of this House - that we will have to move forward on the balance if taxpayers are to have rights as well. This was on the election program, it's a citizens' commitment. Progress must be made to ensure that taxpayers have more and more rights without a law on the rights and guarantees of the taxpayer. Having said that, I would ask Mr Montoro - this, of course, cannot be done in a budget - to fix the problem which you yourselves created in July in the Central Economic and Administrative Court. It seems to us that it is neither reasonable nor presentable for all the members of this court to remain in office eight months later. In addition to reasons for economic stability, we support these budgets for political stability. In a situation like this, with the delay in budgets and the political situation in Catalonia... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u43	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u44	...,Spain needs and must have some accounts. In this regard, if you consider that you must lift Article 155, which we believe is not because the lawfulness in Catalonia is not guaranteed, I would ask Mr Montoro to at least ensure that money is not devoted to illegal purposes, that it is not dedicated to promoting the process or limiting the rights of Catalans who want to remain Spanish. We cannot abandon the Catalans who want to remain Spanish, we cannot abandon a part of Spain, and therefore we must maintain 155 and, of course, the intervention of the accounts in order to ensure that not a single euro is devoted to illegal purposes. In this regard, Citizens are still waiting to explain to us their statements to the press, for which the Supreme Court requested explanations - I have dozens of questions about this -. It seems to us that there was a clear misappropriation of public revenues and false bills in the preparation of the coup for democracy in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u45	Mr. De la Torre, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. In any case, both for political and economic reasons, Spain needs stability and some accounts. Having negotiated them and obviously being their partners, we will support these budgets. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The debate in section 15, corresponding to the Ministry of Finance and Public Service... [[Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u49	Wait a minute. Yes, Mrs. Blanquer?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u50	President, the Socialist Group has an amendment tabled and we should therefore defend it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u51	We're not on speaking time. In any case, if there were to be, I'd give you a turn then not to withdraw...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u52	How?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u53	We will see that that is indeed the case, and if that is the case, I will give you a speech next to the speaker who is speaking at this time. Go on, Mrs. Madrazo. [[Mr Hernando Fraile asks for the floor.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u54	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. On a point of order. I believe that the Socialist Parliamentary Group's turn must be ahead of that of the People's Parliamentary Group, and I would therefore urge you to put this doubt first in order to carry out the debate in a normal and orderly manner.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u56	We were not on the floor, but we are going to check it out right now and, if necessary, we will give the Socialist Group the floor. [[Pause]] I give the floor to Mrs Blanquer, for the Socialist Group, and Mrs Madrazo will speak at the end. You have the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you are well aware, we have tabled an amendment to return section 15 in line with our budgetary alternative, but given the situation, I would like to make some preliminary considerations. The truth is that you, Minister, and also the right-wing bloc - Citizens and the People's Party - insist that your budgets are credible, and even try to convince us of your Government's ability to generate confidence, but the reality is that it is and there are many reasons to think just the opposite, and I will tell you some. First of all, their policy is increasingly questioned because they will know that as they went up VAT indiscriminately to all citizens, they pardoned taxes to the defrauders and immediately they were able to lower taxes to higher incomes. We cannot forget its fiscal amnesty, which was disallowed by the Constitutional Court in the ruling we knew last year, by considering that it broke the principles of economic capacity, equality and progressiveness set out in article 31.1 of the Constitution, an amnesty that served to favor the defrauders and that has contributed to the deterioration of the fiscal conscience. We cannot forget how former Minister Soria had to resign for the scandal of the Panamanian papers and this morning we had breakfast with the news that the former Minister of the People's Party and Expressor of the Valencian Generalitat has been arrested for alleged fiscal and money-laundering crimes. And his number two, his right hand, the Secretary of State for Finance, is being investigated by the Civil Guard for prevarication, embezzlement, coed and trafficking in influence. With these limbs, ladies and gentlemen, tell me what credibility and confidence your Government can generate. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of Citizens, what credibility do you have, what confidence? None, they have no confidence. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, your budgetary policy is also in question. First, the implementation of the budgets of recent years shows that the deviations of the expected income from those achieved have been constant, reducing the credibility of the revenue forecasts by the Government. I bring you a chart showing the differences between the budget and the budget. [[shows a graph]] In fact, the European Commission has already made a first assessment of the budget plan within which these budgets are framed and, without including the latest measures, it says that there seems to be a breach of the planned deficit, questioning the credibility and strengthening of the expected revenue. The main fiscal and financial institutes are also not creating their accounts. The Airef has had to delay its report, but we have not yet been able to know whether it confirms the solidity and credibility of the new documentation that you have sent to Brussels, a delay which only makes it clear that these budgets can be left in nothing, can be left in wet paper. Secondly, external tail winds are disappearing and new tensions are being incorporated into budgets. The necessary energy transition has not been carried out and we remain a very sensitive country to the price of oil; indeed, we benefit more than other countries from the sharp drop in oil. Remember that it went from 126 dollars Brent's barrel in 2012 to 28 dollars in 2016. And now, as you have not corrected the country's shortcomings, we can be negatively affected by a significant rise in the price of crude oil, as well as by the appreciation of the dollar. And third and last, in interannual terms, the evolution of the consumer confidence indicator, published in May, is again clearly negative. The country's economic situation is 11.8 points lower than in the previous year. The options offered by the labour market are valued below a year ago - minus 8 points - and the situation in households is down 3.3 points in the last 12 months. And according to the latest CIS survey, the country's main problem remains unemployment. We have a labour market that stands out for its precariousness, and it is not that we socialists say it, recently Eursotat corroborates it in its study on decent work and economic growth. Spain suspends almost all United Nations indicators on working conditions. With this panorama, a bit of self-criticism, I think it would be all right for the People's Party and yourself, Mr Montoro, because you are hostages to your own heritage. Having said that, in our return amendment we wanted to highlight the weaknesses in the areas of public finances, public administration and the financing of the territorial authorities which motivate us to reject this section. First, budgets are not part of a strategy that resolves the weaknesses of the public accounts and the challenges of the country - as I explained yesterday in my previous intervention - from a revenue and expenditure perspective that strengthens the welfare state. Secondly, globalisation, technologies and the emergence of new business models call for the adaptation and modernisation of our tax legislation, and comprehensive tax reform and an efficient anti-fraud strategy are essential for this. In recent years, however, the Government has promoted partial legislative changes that contribute to the formation of a complex and less progressive tax system. According to Airef data, Mr De la Torre, only in 2017 did more than EUR 15 billion, more than 1.3% of GDP in just one year and therefore this will also affect the budgets we are debating. Thirdly, we believe that the improvements included in the Public Service are insufficient to recover the public employment lost during these years of crisis, which has been counted in more than 200,000 public jobs since 2012, and there is no explicit budgetary margin for the successful implementation of the autonomous financing reform, which I also explained yesterday. Mr Montoro, bear in mind that the deliveries on account will increase by 3.9%, almost half of the revenue forecasts that, as you said, are 6%. We have tabled amendments to the budget in this area and you have voted against them, so if you do so again, we will understand that your will for dialogue in this area is not true and that reform is not your priority. In conclusion - if I may, Mr President - since some of our partial amendments have not been vetoed and therefore remain alive, I would like to highlight those which we consider very important in the fight against fraud, evasion and tax evasion. Firstly, although there is a rise in human resources in these budgets, we believe that it is insufficient and that it should be gradually increased, correcting the significant loss suffered since 2011, which we estimate, according to the reports of the budgets, of 2,300 troops. We set an international impulse for fifteen actions to combat tax evasion, the development of a law to combat fraud and tax avoidance that corrects legal gaps and regulatory interpretations that allow such tax evasion and, finally, to promote a plan of civic tax education that develops coordinated actions between the tax administration and the autonomous communities aimed at deterring fraud, modifying opinions and attitudes that erode the fulfilment of tax responsibilities. With this end in mind, the rest of the Socialist Group's amendments which are still alive in this area and which we will be voting on today are being defended. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. Now, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Now yes; good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have listened carefully to the interventions of the opposition political groups and I have to tell them that it is regrettable because they are not up to the standards of the politicians required by the twenty-first century. [[rumors]] Politics is dialogue, it's negotiation, it's agreement. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u60	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u61	And I haven't heard a single positive contribution here. [[Applauds]] The debate in this section, beyond the figures contained in these budgets of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, is the fundamental and responsible axis in the elaboration of fiscal and budgetary policy, as you know, which has allowed Spain to move from recession to economic growth, from the destruction of millions of jobs to job creation and progress towards budgetary stability, making our economic recovery possible. Yesterday we discussed Title VI, tax rules, and put into value the great stake in these general budgets for continuing to lower taxes; this is perhaps what distinguishes us most from the People's Party from the rest of the political groups. We did so already in 2015, putting in the pocket of the Spaniards more than 93 billion euros with the reform of the IRPF and we continue to do so in these general budgets, in which we include measures of decrease of the IRPF that benefit 3.5 million taxpayers, with an average saving of 440 euros for those people, ladies and gentlemen, of middle and low incomes, and I want to highlight it because much has been talked here about the progressive taxation. In addition, tax subsidies are included for families and we are making progress in family and work reconciliation, an issue that is of great importance to us, with new childcare checks, large family and dependent spouse. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in chains for four years of economic growth and job creation and we want that recovery to reach millions of Spanish families. That is why the Government is confident that it will be able to carry out these General State Budgets, because they improve the lives of millions of Spaniards and the People's Parliamentary Group wants to support that effort. They improve the income of pensioners, who will update their pensions; officials will recover part of the purchasing power lost during the crisis and more than 3 million Spaniards will pay less taxes. It has been the People's Party Government that has managed to recover 70% of the lost employment, that has maintained the purchasing power of our pensions, that has been able to reach agreements with the unions to stabilize public employment and that has been able to raise the salaries of our officials, contrary to what the Socialist Party did, by lowering them by more than 5%. I would therefore like to take advantage of the presence of the main person responsible for drawing up these budgets, the presence here today of the Minister of Finance and Public Service, to congratulate you once again on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and my own, you and your entire team. Budgets, as you all know, are the tool available to governments to carry out their economic and social policy. Spain today has nothing to do with what this government found seven years ago, and that deserves the recognition of Spanish society. Entering the specific figures of the budget of section 15, we find a determined commitment of this ministry for the modernization of public administrations, making them more effective, with a more intensive use of new technologies to put them at the service of the citizens. Programmes have been stepped up to optimise real estate assets, use of mobile stock, use of leases, and the procurement portal has been launched following the adoption of the new Public Sector Contracts Act, which will, by the way, allow for more transparent and efficient public procurement. The management of centralized purchases has been made, the digital transformation of public administrations has been promoted... In short, the programs in section 15 continue to preach with the example, doing more with less and optimizing public resources that, by the way, come out of the pocket of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, a large number of amendments tabled to this section by the opposition groups refer to the Tax Agency and the resources allocated to the fight against tax fraud. The fight against fraud and tax evasion remains one of the priority objectives of the People's Party Government and the figures contained in these budgets reflect this. I would like to highlight the significant increase of more than EUR 28 million envisaged in the initial budget allocation of the Tax Agency. The upward trend in the tax agency's budgets over the previous four years therefore continues. The Tax Agency also has a credit-generation mechanism that will provide an additional EUR 303 million, resulting in a final budget of EUR 1392 million. This represents an increase of 8.03 per cent over the 2017 budget execution. With regard to human resources, which are insufficient, it is estimated that by 31 December 2018 the staffing of the Tax Agency will be 25,555, with a net increase of 396 more. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy is measured by the results achieved, and the results in the fight against fraud in recent years, especially from 2015 to 2017, are historic. In the period 2013-2017, the agency's actions have led to collecting results in the prevention and fight against fraud of more than 68,600 million euros, which shows the efficiency and effectiveness of the Tax Agency, of its professionals, who deserve our recognition because they work with dedication and effort for Spanish society. The Tax Agency has better legal tools, better computer tools and more and better persecutors. For all these reasons, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote against the amendments tabled to section 15 and we call on the opposition groups to act responsibly in support of these budgets. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are the guarantee that in 2018 there will be 500 000 new jobs, are the guarantee that Spain will continue to lead Europe in growth and job creation and that we can move together towards that great goal that I believe we all share here: to get 20 million Spaniards working in 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. The next item is the debate on section 14, Defence. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to set out the content of the draft State General Budgets Act relating to national defence, which is to be provided in the current financial year with appropriations amounting to EUR 8455.9 million. The budget of section 14 grows by 817.4 million, 10.70% compared to 2017. However, in spite of this growth and in order to improve the comparison with the previous year by making homogeneous comparisons, we must bear in mind that EUR 314 million is part of one of the biggest developments in the accounts that I present to you today and which also addresses issues and requests that we have discussed on many occasions in this House, I am referring to the initial budgetary allocation of peacekeeping operations. Peacekeeping operations, regardless of the final cost each year, were usually provided with only a small amount in the budget proposal, then supplemented by budget concepts and, through budget concepts 128, 228 and 668, with contributions from the Contingency Fund. Well, we have been able to include a little over 300 million in this exercise from the outset, which is likely to make it difficult to compare directly between budget periods, but which certainly makes budgetary management and the budget allocation of missions very easy. In this way, in order to better establish the references, if we take into account the initial appropriations for the 2017 budget year and add the total disbursed in operations, we get a figure of 8701 million euros, with 1076.8 million euros in peacekeeping operations. As far as the current year is concerned, if there are no major changes in the forecast for peacekeeping operations for 2018, amounting to 1114 million euros, we hope to reach the end of the 9255.9 million euros. In other words, there is a homogeneous budget increase of EUR 554.8 million, which translates in percentage by 6.38%. [[The lady]] This increase, which doubles that experienced by our country's gross domestic product in 2017, is a clear expression of the importance the Government attaches to defence and protection policy. We have been through very difficult years in all areas and have been particularly difficult in the areas of defence and protection of Spain's interests within and outside our borders. The economic situation that we were in when we arrived, ladies and gentlemen, did not even allow the inclusion in the initial budget of inescapable payment obligations, we had to look for the money after negotiation and then incorporate it. This government and this ministry were able to do so and now, at last, in a period of new economic growth and also of employment, we can reinvigorate basic ministerial spending. We would have liked it better, but it is a fact that there is a ceiling rise of just over 1.5 billion for all basic ministerial spending, and a part of it is going to be devoted to equipping our defence policy. With what? With better means, with renewed infrastructure to improve the quality of life of our military, with new technologies and, of course, with better salaries. Since 2000 the defence had never before had a greater weight in terms of the percentage of non-financial expenditure of the State; therefore, we have finally recovered the levels of defence investment prior to the crisis. We have also provided the budget with a balance between staff costs, 54.5 per cent, and material costs, 45.5 per cent, which had been lost and which kept us away from the situation of other defence ministries and other armed forces in countries that are in our environment, particularly within the European Union. Of course, we cannot and must not give ourselves up to self-congratulation because we have taken very much into account the effects that the crisis has had on the budget of the Ministry of Defence, and the budgetary situation of national defence continues to require a sustained effort. What we are doing with this budget is pushing in the right direction. If in the previous financial year, with an increase of 0.6%, we moved very slightly, with the current budget we are taking decisive steps along the path that marks us, on the one hand, the objectives of budgetary consolidation and compliance with the deficit that Spain meets with strict observance, as well as our Community partners, and on the other hand, we are fulfilling our road map in the field of European security and defence policy, the PESCO, the fourth pillar of Community policies, as well as improving our commitments with our allies. It is a path we want to preserve because it must lead us to growth and employment, as well as to the guarantee of peace and security. In this way, our tour in 2018 will lead us to a total defence expenditure, in terms of the Atlantic Alliance, of 0.93% of GDP, taking into account that other items are also incorporated, which are the pensions of military personnel. Returning to the Ministry of Defence's budget for the current year, I will briefly quote some of the magnitudes and items that I would like to highlight. On the one hand, the budget for staff in Chapter 1 is increasing by EUR 72 million. It is a 1.6% rise that coincides with what the government and social partners have agreed on in the 2018 Public Employment Pact, which will lead to an increase in wages of more than 8% over the next three years. We thus improve the salaries of the men and women who are part of our Armed Forces, as we also improve the salaries of all public servants who are part of the Ministry and the General Administration of the State. As far as current expenditure is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the increase is 12.33%, which is justified by several fundamental actions that we are undertaking and which coincide with work lines that have already been announced. First of all, EUR 12.31 million will be devoted to the use of the Peace satellite, launched on 22 February, with which we have acquired our own Earth observation capabilities, including radar technology, which we had never provided for. With the Peace satellite we can have real-time information images that strengthen our security and also our intelligence capabilities and place us on an equal footing in collaboration with our partners and allies. Except for Germany, Spain is the only country in our environment that has an observation system as perfect and technologically up-to-date as the Paz satellite, also a very important boost for research and technology in our country. Another figure that I would like to highlight in this chapter 2 is the increase of 13.39 million euros for the maintenance of infrastructures, 27.43% more than in 2017. This departure, ladies and gentlemen, has a vocation of continuity and comes to fulfill an objective that we had stated is to solve the deterioration, sometimes very serious, of the facilities through actions that will result in the well-being of our Armed Forces with regard to both the areas of work, barracks, and the residential endowments. The shock plan for improving the quality of life of the military being addressed by the Ministry of Defence is incardinated within this action. As far as Chapter 4 is concerned, I must stress the budgetary reflection of the importance this Government attaches to the training and training of our military, with the increases in the appropriations of the university defence centres reaching an average of 30 per cent. I close this review of chapters and items with those for Chapter 6, that of real investments. For this 2018 financial year the chapter will have an allocation of 2841.9 million euros, an increase of 651.6 million euros, that is, 29.75% regarding the previous financial year. And the increase in chapter 6 is reflected in all aspects of it. We maintain the investment and transparency exercise that involved the full incorporation of the amounts planned to deal with the special programmes and armaments, we increase by 340 million euros the amounts that are going to be allocated to the flow of repayment of the credit advances granted by the industry and we initially provide the chapter of investments of the operations, which greatly facilitates their implementation. In addition, the increase in the amount of appropriations also covers logistical support, the modernization of the Armed Forces and the research and development programmes of the Armed Forces. Improvements of more than EUR 34 million are incorporated. In short, we demonstrate with facts in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, what we seek: to provide the Armed Forces with improvements in their environment, in their instruction and in their training, in their regular work and in their daily living conditions, we prioritize the support of staff so that they can devote with the least number of concerns to their task, which is the protection of our country and, of course, we try to make the best equipment available with the cutting-edge technology available. We seek their safety and also that of all citizens and, at the same time, we strengthen a strategic economic sector such as that of the defence industry in our country. We are talking about a sector, ladies and gentlemen, which exports 80% of its production, which exceeds EUR 5 billion, which maintains 22 000 high-skilled direct jobs, in addition to the thousands of indirect jobs it creates, and which generates EUR 2.5 in the economy for each euro we invest in. These are some of the items that, in my view, are more worth highlighting because they express very clearly the political will of this Government and the management will of the Ministry of Defence with regard to the priority areas of its action, beyond the fact that the budget increase reaches to a greater or lesser extent all the spending policies of my department. And we do not deceive ourselves, this Government is acting against an unquestionable reality, as it is that the defence budget had suffered the economic crisis with particular force. The adjustment did not affect the operation of our Armed Forces because reforms and efficiency programmes were made and the operation was maintained, but it was essential to reverse the trend because there were situations that had already become unsustainable and that still make us worry about preventing the loss of capabilities of our armies, which are directly related to our greater or lesser capacity for defence and protection. In addition, there is a European consensus for the gradual increase of defence budgets in the area of the European Security and Defence Policy, the Fisheries Policy, as well as in the area of the members of the Atlantic Alliance, and in these consensuss Spain is, and it is because we are certain that, given the budgetary situation of our Armed Forces, given the risks and threats present in the current geostrategic scenario, given the part of the burden that we have to assume in the response to this situation of global instability, which exceeds the cyclical situation in order to almost become structural, the only rational position is to invest in our defence and security, in our protection within and outside our borders; to do so head-on, with a view placed in the medium and in the long term, but with solvency, with continuity and with a vocation of permanence. These, in my view, are the guiding principles that must guide any approach we can take towards the establishment of a great agreement on the allocation of defence policy. This is a truncated idea that this Government, despite the complicated political and parliamentary scene, has not abandoned at all. But in the meantime we must continue to work, and we must do so in order to improve the economic possibilities of our defence. With the budget we bring here that a month ago was extensively detailed by my department's senior officials, we are taking a step further in the right direction; a step further in the firm commitment that we will continue to walk the path of growth and security, the path to a strong and committed European Union with security and defence and to work hand in hand with the Atlantic Alliance. This is our purpose and - I am sure - it is also that of the vast majority of Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u64	Thank you very much. In the defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, first of all, Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Allow me, Minister, not to refer in this section to the ministry you defend, but to use the Joint Group's turn in this section to set the position of the Navarro People's Union before the General Budgets of the State for this year 2018. But first they will allow me to thank Mr De la Torre, the President of the Bureau, the members of the Bureau, all the spokespersons but, in particular, the lawyers of the Commission - Isabel, congratulations and many thanks for the effort - and the stenographers, ushers and all the professionals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] We are going to contextualize these budgets, how have the negotiations of the General Budgets of the State been and what scenarios have been opened in Spain in these months. Firstly, the monograph - the monologue, I would say - of Catalonia, to the extent that a group, the Basque Group, has made its approval or not conditional on the general budgets whether or not Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution is activated. Secondly, we are very concerned and very much concerned about the shipowners, which is the drafting in the Basque Parliament, in the Parliament of Vitoria, of that new Basque statute, in which there is talk of a possible state of seven provinces in which they include the Foral Community of Navarre. I shall refer to that in my speech. And then, just two or three weeks ago, the publicity of the defeat of the terrorist band ETA and with the link, to end, of two governments hand in hand - the Basque Government and the Government of Navarre - who have called for a negotiating table for the rapprochement of the prisoners of age to the party that supports the central government. Union of the Navarro People demanded, and has done so until yesterday, a document - indeed, it is signed - in which President Mariano Rajoy undertakes that they will not sit on that table that they have requested for an approach of the prisoners etarras. [[shows a document]] We therefore welcome the efforts and political will made by the People's Party in this demand made by the Navarro People's Union and also the political will to reach agreement on the economic proposals that the Navarro People's Union has proposed by way of amendment to the State General Budgets. We therefore agree with the majority of this House - certainly not all groups, but yes the majority - as is the case with most Spanish society, where memory, dignity, respect for families and victims of the terrorist band ETA are not negotiable. Ladies and gentlemen, we shipwrecks are a people who are willing to forgive, but when forgiveness is true; forgiveness and justice are not incompatible, they go hand in hand. Forgiveness is a right of the victims, justice is a duty of the State. Therefore, the victims, if they wish, should forgive, but the State has to do justice and that is basically what the Navarro People's Union is demanding. Moreover, in the face of this spectrum, before that Basque state with seven provinces, one of which would be the Foral Community of Navarra, they will allow me to say that the Basque nationalists have a problem, not the Navarros, that the vast majority of us feel outsiders and Spaniards. No, it's them, who have been staring at each other for decades, who stand up every morning to unspeak the shipwrecks and manipulate the symbols of Navarra, its furo and its flag. Union of the Navarro People has been the bulwark against nationalism for forty years and we will continue to be so. Finally, three considerations, Madam President. Unión del Pueblo Navarro is neither a small brother nor anyone's younger brother nor anyone's white mark, ladies and gentlemen and also the media. Secondly, the Navarro People's Union has not moved a bit of its founding values because it has not been necessary, because we are a reliable party; our word is enough and when we say yes it is and when we say it is no. There are political forces that move in the shades of the grey; we do not understand politics that way. Union of the Navarro People is white or black and, in this case - and with this end - Union of the Navarro People will vote in favour of the State's General Budgets, for the economic, institutional and political stability of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u66	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u67	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, read in the newspapers in a week: Defence budgets have risen by 6%. Another newspaper: they're going to raise 9%. Another newspaper: they're going to raise 10%. Another newspaper: they're going to raise 11%. There's something abnormal, there's no other section of the budget that generates these disparate headlines. In fact, the minister has devoted the first part of her intervention to justifying why the Ministry of Defence generates these headlines. They have already fixed manu militari - or, rather, judicial hand - the barbarity of the extraordinary credit that we approved each year for special weapons plans. We have now taken one more step and approved a more reasonable amount, rather than at all, for missions abroad. All this shows is that the Defence budget has been a real nonsense for a number of years, there was a figure that was not real because it was complemented by extraordinary appropriations and then there was a spreadable item for missions abroad that multiplied it again. This is the difference between the 11% that some newspaper says and the 6% that another newspaper says. It doesn't mean we don't have to say there's been some nonsense. The EPAs, let's go back to special weapons plans; some are justified but, as a secretary general for socialist defence said, we neither need nor can we pay for them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u69	As in botica, in the PEA there is everything, there are things necessary, but can anyone explain to me the strategic need to have eighty-five Eurofighter? That was the initial number, now I don't know how many there are. A very first-line plane to over 80 million euros each? What danger are we in? What state is it that surrounds us? The only state - I'm not going to say which one - that would be a small risk is sixteen F-16, which they give to the south. What do we need 80 Eurofighters for? Is there anything we don't know about China, minister? Or is it that the truth is out there and there are extraterrestrials that are between us and that is why we need eighty-five planes that are a real luxury that we cannot afford and that, moreover, we will hardly be able to pay reasonably? Thank you very much, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u70	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u71	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left is tabling an amendment to refund the budget expenditure to the Ministry of Defence, Section 14, for the following reasons. The first is because since Aznar stepped on the Moncloa the army has generated a debt of 30 billion euros that we have paid among all in the form of cuts and absolutely antisocial measures. In short, we are tired of so much goat and so much flag and we cast a little less doctors and more teachers. The second reason is because you have increased the defence budget by 30%, in a country with 30% child poverty; the paradox is dramatic. While they had children, literally, eating hot thanks to the school dining rooms, they had Tejero's son celebrating every year the 23-F in a subsidized barracks of the Civil Guard. Also because you sanction and send to your house brave, decent and brave soldiers like Lieutenant Segura, while you honor, in this very house, confessing Francoists like Martín Villa. Also because we are sick of the Minister Cospedal's threat to a people who only wanted to vote. We have seen it on newspaper covers, in which I came to say: watch out for what you do, watch out for what you vote for because we are ready. We are tired and we repeat to you, Minister: get out on the street and tell people to eat bullets and sleep in tanks. Also because we don't want to pay billions of euros in arms just for Trump to congratulate Rajoy at a NATO meeting; or for a tyrant to literally embrace Philip de Bourbon in La Zarzuela. We do not want to continue financing death in Yemen, Syria or Saudi Arabia. Because in this country a hundred thousand people have died waiting for their help to depend on it, because that seems to us enough reason not to allocate one more euro to tanks or wars and because we have spent ten years from the Republican Left repeating the same thing, only three things: spend on books and not on guns, turn the arms industry into something that does not bleak their blood hands and repair the memory of 120,000 people at once, eighty years later. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u72	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. First, I want to begin this appearance by transferring my support, our support, and our affection to Antonio Carrero, a military man who died a few days ago in Mali as a result of a traffic accident. [[Applauds]] I have to start by saying that from the United States we can be the group that we have recorded the most amendments in these defence budgets. Serious tax and quantity initiatives; serious, rigorous, supported and worked out initiatives, for example, with all Armed Forces associations. Amendments such as a work integration plan; such as an audit of weapons programmes; such as the modification of the pay system of the personnel of the Armed Forces to allow for the addition of hours of excess work; an infrastructure plan with more than €45 million; a special gender and harassment plan; providing resources to military associations, although the minister has already shown respect and does not believe much in military associations; and some other initiatives such as, for example, an amendment to compensate some municipalities - there are few - that bear significant military servitude and this hinders the economic development of these municipalities such as San Fernando, Rota, Barbate, Ferrol, etc. This preliminary defence project has increased defence budgets per second year. In the words of the Secretary of State for Defence, the Ministry of Defence has recovered its budget from that of the pre-crisis period. I am surprised that it is only the Ministry of Defence that has recovered and that has done so before that there are other ministries with very important social issues as well. On the other hand, we observe that this increase does not benefit or is not intended for what the minister has been repeating many times that it is the main value of the Armed Forces, even if it does not then put it into practice, which are the people, the people, the military, the men and women who make up the Armed Forces. In any case, and as usual, Defence continues to handle inconcrete initial budgets with items corresponding to this section diluted in other General State Budgets. In addition, budgetary praxis with regard to the lack of rigour and realism remain in force, and I would like to give you the example of operations abroad 128, 228 and 628, where 314 million are budgeted but 1 billion will be spent. Therefore, they are not real budgets. It is a budget in which an amount is budgeted but then much more is spent. It seems that they have not yet learned of the Constitutional Court's ruling that these things are not done so, nor of the Court of Auditors' ruling that the Ministry of Defence is the most opaque of all ministries. In the absence of much, this project does not show a clear commitment to the salaries of our military men and women, as the Military Life Observatory has said, nor to shock measures, nor to the rehabilitation of so many units. We don't even talk about family reconciliation. Yes, we will continue to listen to the minister say that people are the most important in the Armed Forces; but it is not enough to say so, it is necessary to put into practice within the political budget to respond to all those demands made by the Armed Forces. You say they're going to rise 8% in three years. That's 72 euros in three years, which is 24 euros a year. Do you think that on the payroll of a soldier who charges 900 euros, 24 euros is an amount that solves something? Honestly, I don't think so. I'd like you to explain to me what your army model is. Is it spending EUR 30 billion on a special arms programme and having the troops and navy pay EUR 900? Is that for you a modern army model? Or is it expelled from the basic scale by the age of forty-five, when we have the oldest military dome in Europe? Is that for you a modern army? Or deny associations the labor rights they ask of them? On the 12th all the associations were manifested and you have not yet received them or told them absolutely nothing. That's the respect you have for the military, for our men and women. Right now there are two San Fernando soldiers at the door of the ministry waiting for you to receive them. Is that the modern army you want, soldiers on hunger strike at the door of the ministry demanding socio-laboral issues you don't attend to? Is that your model of the Armed Forces, the modern model, the model of the 21st century? That is why we have said no to your budget. You are not committed to men and women, you are committed to arms companies, not to the military. Instead of thinking about a new investor cycle, as you say, that is, rehypothecating us again, I would have to think of fair pay, of putting decent quarters, of a salary increase, and not of an unsustainable model of the Armed Forces. [[Applauds]] I have told you many times: taking care of the Armed Forces is not one day to go to the parade, but to be every day, meeting with professional associations. You have not met with them once, you meet in the Coperfas, in the Council of the Armed Forces, but you have never received them. So it would be nice if you were a little bit more on the street, a little bit more with our people, with the military, and less you put on the medals for your work and more to work for a really modern model of the Armed Forces and for the 21st century. This budget increases, but for the same site as usual, for arms companies. For the people, no; for the currants, no, for the usual. Eight percent in three years doesn't even reach 24 euros. I think that hates everything about your bet on the Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u74	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Allow me to address my first words, in union with my partner from Podemos, to a soldier from Spain, his relatives, his friends and companions. These words are of eternal thanks for their dedication, for their self-denial, for their loyalty, for their sacrifice, giving in the performance of their mission even the most sacred, their own life. Let me remind you of these words for our Infant of Marina Don Antonio Carrero Jiménez, who died on Friday after suffering an accident in Mali, where he was serving all Spanish and Spanish, and to extend this memory to his wounded companions, wishing them a speedy recovery. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about Spain's defence policy in its budgetary aspect, which affects its women and men and the means that they require for the performance that we entrust to them from this house and the missions that they have attributed to them in the Spanish Constitution. It is a state policy, a policy that must be far from the opportunism and populism of those who see the enemy in Spain's defence policy, and of those who are only interested in Spain's defence policy as a call for votes, and change their speeches according to the direction in which the wind blows; that the same thing they criticize and throw at the Jemad a few days ago in this seat as they support their postulated hours later also in this same house. You know, politics made in Citizens. However, by focusing on the figures, from the point of view of spending policies, these General State Budgets will allocate, including the autonomous bodies Isfas, Invied and INTA, EUR 9600 million, plus what is not directly shown in Section 14 and is in other capitulates, approximately EUR 10 billion. These appropriations would account for 2.14 per cent of the total appropriations provided for in the State General Budgets, or 0.79 per cent of gross domestic product. Well, yes, ladies and gentlemen, these are the numbers, but this is not the truth. And I say that this is not the truth, since the Secretary of State himself in the Defence Committee acknowledged that everything planned - as they hear - is not budgeted, and he said it without any blush. For those of his ladies and gentlemen who were not present or did not listen to him, I can sum it up: the Government has been allocating more than EUR 1 billion, year yes and year also for operations abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, knowing that you will at least need this budget, since the number of operations has not decreased, nor have your contingents, why should we budget for what is planned? They decide to budget just about 314 million. See where the trap is? More than 1 billion compared to 314. Therefore, I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, surely you will have to resort to contingency funds, but as long as we do not budget it, it is not going to be that society finds out. This is the trap of the royal decree, but by another way, version 2.0. To the question of whether these budgets are transparent, the answer is no. Are they realistic? The answer is no. Are they opaque? Yes, and the Military Life Observatory says so, I don't say so. As you know, thanks to the Constitutional Court's rulings on appeals lodged by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, today we can quantify to some extent what will be budgeted for the special arms plans, which see their allocation increased by 18.64% compared to 2017. Now, the million-dollar question: do your lordships know how much the salary of the military and the military is increased? Well, that; you know the answer. The study of the General Budgets of the State presented to us by the Government in section 14 shows that the investments in defence are mainly aimed at the acquisition of capacities, which is not bad, but there is no balance. As we said in the Commission, there is not even a single investment policy that can improve the quality of the living and working conditions of the military. They work hundreds and hundreds of overtime on unpaid guards, and they don't have a euro to pay for them, but they do - the hours, I say - of course they do; go if they do. The military sees how their commanders suppress their hourly reductions or flexibility. You know why? Because in Spain we need mothers and parents of children under four years of age to guard, maneuver and have others committed for the sake of service. And you know why we need it? Because money is not devoted to family reconciliation policies, nor to equality within the Armed Forces. Of more than 170 harassment complaints, only a dozen have ended up in prison. There have been violations, and do you know how many expulsions there have been for such reasons? Well, that's it. Do you know how much money goes to the protocol against sexual harassment and on the grounds of sex? Well, that's it. Defence budgets have increased by 10.7%, but little goes to social policies. And I'm gonna end up addressing Groucho Marx's advanced apprentices. Yes, you, lords of Citizens. Welcome to Project Ceus. You've been running a little behind for over four years. Of course, you'll tell me, but if we weren't! Spain certainly already existed at that time and the Spaniards of Moguer, in Huelva, too, and you do not need to tell them that you are Spanish when it gives you to go for a walk. I assure you, you know perfectly well. As I welcomed Project Ceus, a project for which the Andalusian Junta, the Huelva Diputation and the Moguer City Council - all governed by the Socialist Party - have been working for years. We have been betting over and over again that the Ceus Project should be developed in Moguer and that the close to 40 million of Europe, and associated jobs, should not be lost. A project that has not come forward because of its refusal to support it so far, because of its co-responsibility with a government that treats the inhabitants of Moguer as second-rate Spaniards; well, for you they were not Spanish until yesterday. But, of course, it seems that these budgets have changed the direction of the wind and you, as sailboats, now decide to support what you have refused to do and demand from the government in the past budgets. That said, welcome to Project Ceus. [[Applauds]] What has happened has been that until now the citizens of Moguer for you, lords of Citizens, were not Spanish, they were that, citizens, and now they see them as possible votes. Here is the difference between making state policy and cheap populism. In the previous General State Budgets the Socialist Parliamentary Group brought an amendment to the Ceus Project of 2 million euros. Do you remember what you voted for? Well, that's it. Don't worry, we are more responsible and have decided to support your EUR 500 000 amendment. Difference, 2 500 000. Well, that's it. Don't worry either about the Andalusian Board, it has long budgeted the project and the documentation ready so that you won't lose again the almost 40 million euros, whose initial loss you were co-responsible for. And I tell you not to worry because for us all workers are equal, they are citizens of a democratic, free and equal Spain, governed by a constitutional order that defends the Armed Forces, where cultural differences and feelings unite us as a nation and make us more equal as a society. Less populism and confrontation in search of votes and more state policy and coherence, which we talk about the security of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Cano Leal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u77	Thank you, President. Of course, I can't help but stick to the memory for the deceased Marine Antonio Carrero. I assure you it was not easy the other day the sepelio, because I fired that boy when the contingent went to Mali, and it was very hard to see him enter the courtyard of the Tear in a coffin. It was really hard. [[Applauds]] As you can all imagine, the budgets of the Ministry of Defence already occupy a very important part of the General Budgets of the State, because they guarantee our collective security. How many have been said many. The main 8455.9 million. It theoretically implies an increase of 10.7%, which I think is not so much. And I'll explain myself. Let's make several considerations in three blocks. One, insufficient credit to maintain capacity. Two, defense policy. And three, I will make some reference to the amendments because they do not all give time to see them. First of all, as regards the inadequacy of the appropriations to maintain capacity, that says nothing more than the Chief of the Defence Staff, who assures you that he understands quite well in this matter. He said in his appearance at parliamentary headquarters that, if we discounted the appropriations for weapons programmes and missions, the real increase was 2.3%, not 10.7 but 2.3%.And from that, if we discounted the increase in salaries would remain at more than 1%. Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that these figures can guarantee effective security? Second bloc, state policy. Every year we hear - and we have seen it here - the recurring discourse of hospital beds in front of media and defense systems. We understand that this would have been avoided by having a law on sustainability of defence spending. Minister of Defence, I remind you that in December 2016 you already wished the possibility of dialogue, consensus, agreement and compromise in Parliament. I saw that the legislature could run around and found receptivity in opposition groups - because it said so - but it has been two years and we have made no progress. Gentlemen, defence policy must be a state policy, and I say it must be because we understand that it is not. State policy is a policy that guarantees continuity, it is alien to changes and political changes, and above all - and this is what is most not done here - it is the result of agreement and consensus. We believe that this would have been a good opportunity to avoid much of the amendments that have been tabled to these budgets, and this is already linked to the third block. Third block, amendments. On the one hand, I would like to highlight the amendment by Squerra Republicana on the idea of bringing the training funds for the personnel of the Armed Forces. I do not know whether this group knows that there is a subcommittee set up within the Defence Commission which is precisely to study the absence of such training plans. With this amendment - and I tell you the truth - you align more with the Government than with any other group and above all give the dot to thousands and thousands of families of military personnel who guarantee our security, including yours. Of course from Citizens, far from forgetting our soldiers and sailors, we will fight for the state to restore them - we will all - what we have not been able to offer for ten years, from 2007 to 2017. I'm done with Esquerra, Mr. Rufián. I have seen in the press that it was said that your party in the Catalan government was preparing a Catalan army, and I ask you: are you against the Spanish army or the Spanish army? [[Applauds]] The Podemos Group has three blocks of amendments: the first, troop and marine amendments. They seem very good to us, but we understand that this is part of the work of the subcommittee. You propose a comprehensive work orientation plan. That plan is already being drawn up by the Government, which we have not been aware of here, but is being drawn up, and will therefore be presented to us some day. Secondly, they want to amend Law 8/2006 on Troop and Marinery. In the subcommission they seem to want to repeal the law; here they want to amend it. I would like them to be clarified and to know whether they want to amend or repeal it; in the amendment they say change. Second block of amendments: pay-type amendments. This amendment is shorter than a fandango, because it does not come by far to the proposal of the Military Life Observatory. Much more reform is needed in the area of pay, and you do not remember the staff on reserve or the retired, only the active staff. The third block of amendments is devoted to issues that have already been dealt with here and rejected, such as the one concerning the shooting range in Las Bardenas and compensation for beekeepers. Socialist Party, I honestly do not finish understanding its amendments: they are contradictory, they are based on ignorance and they are only looking for an electoral revenue. I believed last year that you would be able to overcome this year the critical situation you were living in, but I see that it is not, and I explain myself. First block of amendments: full refund. Why? Because they understand that we need to devote more to personnel and less to material. As Mr. Saura would say, this has a populist tufillo. Secondly, amendments to support a frigate programme F-110. Perfectly, we agree with them, but they contradict the return amendment, where you ask for more personnel and less material, and here you ask for more material. What are we left with? They insist again on the ignorance of Navantia's constitution. Navantia is based not only in Ferrol, but also in San Fernando, Cartagena and Madrid; precisely in San Fernando the system unit works for the F-110 frigate program. The scholarships for formation of troops and navy are very good, but they forget about those who have already left. You are afraid to reform the 2006 Act that you pulled out when you were ruling. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, defence policy requires the participation of parties that are clear about Spain's defence priority as a country. The PSOE has been for many years, but for a few years they haven't stood up with a ball, they've been batting blind. I ask you to rectify this matter. Finally, the dismantling of military soils, which are dragging it every year. I'm talking about San Fernando; I don't know. Why? Because the only disused military land in San Fernando is the dustbins of Fadricas, which have been disaffected since 2001. Who is the one who has to activate the negotiation with the Ministry of Defence? The City Hall of San Fernando. Do you know who rules at San Fernando City Hall? The PSOE. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. You're in time to rectify. Madam Minister, please convene a table as soon as possible to lay the foundations of defence policy on a continuity basis. Gentlemen of Podemos - I was going to say United Podemos, but I'm staying with Podemos - clarify and clarify your position with regard to maintaining the operational capabilities of the Armed Forces. Lords of the Socialist Party, forget about the polls, really, you have it very much in mind. Return to the field of defence security and contribute with your vote to get Spain to occupy its rightful place on the international stage, guaranteeing security. In short, ladies and gentlemen, let's look less at our navel and let's look more at Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u78	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tarno Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u79	Thank you, Madam President. From this rostrum of the Congress of Deputies I would also like to join in paying tribute to Don Antonio Carrero Jiménez, Marine deployed on the European training mission for the Malian Armed Forces. Our condolences and affection to your family and colleagues. He died serving Spain, rest in peace. [[Applauds]] I would also like to take advantage of my presence in this rostrum to remind us of all the deceased members of our Armed Forces in service, they also gave their lives for Spain. I do not want to forget the more than 120,000 women and men who have served our country and the security of all Spaniards every day since they joined the armed forces. [[Applauds]] For them and for them it is this budget, because the first obligation that a Government has, a State is to ensure the security and coexistence of its citizens. Without security there is no rule of law, without rule of law there is no state of welfare. Therefore our security is guaranteed day by day not only inside Spain, our security is guaranteed inside Spain but also outside Spain, outside our borders, as members of the Spanish Armed Forces do today. These budgets, section 14, are essential to ensure the operation of our Armed Forces. We have repeated throughout our speeches and throughout the budget debate that these are expanding budgets that are moving towards what our Armed Forces need. But I tell all of you that you need more impetus in the 2019 and 2020 budgets. Our Armed Forces deserve greater budgetary recognition, and that is the work that this Government has undertaken and that we have been doing for the past two years. What is the aim of this budget? Essentially improve and continue with the recruitment, selection, training, preparation and employability of the personnel that are part of our Armed Forces. It should be noted that Chapter 1 has EUR 4602 million; about 55% of the total expenditure of the Defence budget in Section 14 is its Chapter 1. It has grown a 1.6, as the minister has very well explained, but I want to remind all the groups - who here ask for more budget and who are then unable to vote in favour, because they contradict their nightly ideological thinking - that this January 6th the minister on the Military Easter promised to study to improve the salaries of our soldiers and sailors, because it is true that they need an improvement, but I also place you all to see when that improvement comes to the Congress of Deputies what you all vote for. You are in constant contradiction: on the one hand, you ask for a lower budget, and on the other, you ask us to give in to the municipalities soils, barracks and compensations; you cannot blow and sip at the same time. The Ministry of Defence, Security and Defence of our country needs a worthy budget, and that is the budget of section 14 and what we have been working on, as we have been working on improving administrative management with significant savings and costs, on technological innovation - the Peace satellite, support for INTA, special arms programmes -, on support for the defence industry -22 000 high-quality jobs, industrial jobs that create wealth, future and progress -; we continue to work on defence policy guaranteeing our commitments with our allies, with NATO and the European Union, strengthening the Pesco, consolidating social protection and support for the family environment of our military, more money for quartering and social protection, and insisting on the culture of defence. Its amendments are repeated year after year and I would even say that some of its interventions. Mr. Rufián, you don't even read the budgets. He talks about growth that doesn't happen, but it doesn't matter, you just come up here to make headlines not to make serious and rigorous politics. He spoke of teachers the previous time, but I remind him that in Spain there are 682,250 non-university teachers, there are 112,509 doctors in the public system, 165,601 nurses, over 30,000 schools, 158,566 hospital beds, a universal and free health and education system. Do you know why there is that? Because in this country there is security and a rule of law that supports it, and for that to exist we need our Armed Forces to continue to guarantee the defence and integrity of the national territory. The amendments of the Podemos Group are recurrent, they are always exactly the same and I insist that in constant contradiction, like those of the Socialist Group. [[Denials by Mr Delgado Ramos]] Look, for a country, budgets are needed, always, essential, but if some are needed, they are defense budgets. In addition, you would demonstrate your height of vision if you had with us a state policy for defence, but you only want to make a policy of corridor, a policy of rostrum and not a policy of rigour and seriousness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u80	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate in section 17, Ministry of Development. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u81	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to present to you the budgets of the Ministry of Development for the current year 2018, budgets that have been prepared in line with the government's economic policy, which has as its priority objectives to maintain job creation, consolidate and support economic growth and meet public deficit objectives. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u83	Well, the Budgets of Promotion for the year 2018 take advantage of this favorable context and align with the priority objectives that are already contained in the draft Law of General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. No one will disagree in this House, I am sure, that infrastructure, transport and housing are three fundamental pillars for the modernization, territorial cohesion and the development, both social and economic, of the whole country. Following these initial considerations, I shall go on to detail the budget, which has as its main objectives, first of all, the creation of employment and economic growth by increasing investment in infrastructure; secondly, to fulfil the commitments to infrastructure, transport and housing that we have with the different autonomous communities; thirdly, to improve the quality of infrastructure and transport as well as the mobility of citizens, contributing to territorial vertebration; fourthly, to advance and finalize the major projects that we have under way; fifthly, to increase the productivity of sectors that are particularly involved in the transport of passengers and goods; and finally, to bet on innovation, internationalisation and sustainability. I would like to highlight that the 2018 budgets of the Fomento group provide sufficient budgetary availability to meet the planned actions, and also to meet the main plans that we have recently approved, such as the State Housing Plan 2018-2021, the innovation plan, the proximity plans, the Plan of the Impulse of the Transport of Goods by Rail or the Plan of Investments of Maritime-Terrestrial Accessibility 2017-2021, among others. The consolidated budget of the Fomento group for 2018 amounts to 17 466 million euros, 943 million euros additional to 2017. It is therefore a budget that shows an important advance, clearly bet for the investment, which reaches almost 9 billion euros, because it increases by 17% compared to the budgets of 2017, and because it amounts to 1292 million euros additional, which reflects the government's decided commitment in 2018 for the productive investment to become an engine of economic development. These investments are estimated to generate 235 000 direct and indirect jobs in the Spanish economy, of which some 35 000 will be new jobs. I turn now to the details of the department's investments and its breakdown by sector. The first notable note is that the budget makes a clear investment bet on railway policy, which remains very prominent over the others, totaling 48.1% of investments, with 4286 million euros, with an increase of 25.2% compared to 2017. In order of participation the policies of roads, with 27.3% more, 2431 million euros; ports and maritime security, 10.1% more, with 900 million euros; airports and air security, with 8.4% more, 752 million euros, and housing and soil, with 5.2% more, 467 million euros. In addition, these investments are complemented in an extra-budgetary way by other plans, such as the extraordinary road investment plan or private investment in Spanish ports, which I will also mention throughout my intervention. I will set out below the most significant data on the distribution of the budget by sector and mode of transport. On railways, as I have already mentioned, we will allocate €4286 million, most of the investments. In the railway sector, the budget is a true reflection of the commitments and strategic lines set by the Ministry in the areas of network planning, logistics development, passenger and freight mobility and intermodality. In passenger transport we will continue to work on extending the benefits of high speed to new territories, with the aim of advancing on strategic axes of our network, without leaving aside the conventional network, in which we are already working with the corresponding plans of proximity, and in actions necessary for the replacement of assets, as well as for the integration of the ports in the railway system. In the most immediate horizon, connections such as the tunnel between Atocha and Chamartín, the Vandellós-Tarragona section of the Mediterranean corridor or the Antequera-Granada line are expected to be put into service, sections in which the works have already been completed and in which we are in the testing period. Work is also being done to complete the works at the high speed of the arrival in Murcia, the connection Sale of Baths-Burgos or the Zamoran section of the Galician corridor. In the transport of goods the objective is the establishment of a sustainable system from both economic and environmental point of view and for this it is necessary to achieve an improvement in the efficiency of the railway mode that allows to increase - this is one of the challenges that we have for the year 2018 - the share of participation in the inland transport of goods. These measures will complement the actions on railway infrastructure already under way. For example, our commitment to the Mediterranean and Atlantic corridor, which are fundamental in the international transport of goods, and, for example, the measures supported in these budgets to move forward with the freight plan we have presented. For the year 2018 will be destined to the Mediterranean corridor 923 million euros, which means an increase of 23.4% regarding 2017, and there are endowments for other actions that will enhance this corridor, such as the access to the ports of Barcelona, Castellón, Sagunto, darsena de Escombreras and several terminals. In relation to another important corridor, we have allocated EUR 757 million to continue to make progress in the work of the connection with Galicia. For its part, 661 million euros to connections with Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country, cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor, with an increase of 26.3% regarding 2017. Finally, the Extremadura corridor is allocated 283 million euros, representing 9.1% more than in 2017. Another of the priority and strategic elements in railway policy are proximity, services that use 424 million users, a fundamental service and vertebrator of metropolitan transport. We will continue throughout this year working intensively to maintain the high level of quality of this service and optimize the provision of services with the aim of capturing a greater number of travelers, including sufficient endowment for the plans already presented for rolling stock and other close proximity plans such as those of Asturias, Cantabria, Valencian Community and Madrid. In 2018 we will allocate to this end 576 million euros, which is 54% more than in 2017. In addition, we will continue, of course, making a bet on the conventional network. ADIF and ADIF High Speed will carry out much of these actions that I have indicated to you, with a total investment volume of 3561 million euros. Well, the conventional network carries 848 million euros, which is 63.1% more than in 2017. I think it is clear that the Spanish Government is committed to improving the conventional network, compatible, of course, with the need to work on high-speed corridors. Finally, investment in Renfe will amount to EUR 378 million, of which 282 will be for mobile equipment. I would also like to highlight at this point the good health of the company, Renfe, which has already achieved a pre-tax profit forecast of around 65 million euros, a benefit based on precise healthy growth that allows its sustainability over time. With regard to roads, we intend to promote the modernization of State roads and ensure their proper maintenance. In this way, the total investment in roads amounts to 2431 million euros, which is 12% more than in 2017. Of these, the amount earmarked for investments in new construction amounts to EUR 1161 million and EUR 917 million for road conservation and safety. In the section of new road infrastructures the budget, as it could not otherwise be, gives priority to the completion of the works that affect the main corridors of great capacity that provide long-distance service between autonomous communities and also to the steps in the border posts, ports and airports of general interest, as corresponds to our competences. The capacity and quality of the network will also be increased by increasing the number of lanes. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u85	In urban environments we will also be carrying out actions in new access to ports and airports in order to improve the daily mobility of many citizens and facilitate the traffic of goods. I repeat that the budgetary investment on roads will be reinforced by the extra-budgetary investments of the Extraordinary Road Investment Plan, of which the first concessions have already been announced and in two cases, both on the north-south axis of the A-30 motorway in Murcia, and on the east-west axis of the A-7 motorway, Alicante-Murcia, have already begun the procedures for the corresponding concessions with the publication of feasibility studies. We are now finalizing the tender documents for these two actions, which involve a total investment of EUR 931 million, and we plan to be able to take out both competitions in the first half of June. That means that we will add to the planned investment, within the 1 billion, another 931 million which you will not see in the budgets but which are part of the ICP. To them must be added others, as I say, which have already been introduced. In addition, there is the conservation programme, which is a key element in improving the efficiency and competitiveness of road transport, optimizing existing resources, improving the conditions of road safety, quality and level of service, and to this end we will allocate 917 million euros, 390 million euros for integral conservation, 300 million euros for first generation motorways, 210 million euros for rehabilitation and conservation and 17 for technical assistance. I would also like to highlight Chapter 7, to which no reference is made, which sets out road agreements for road construction by other administrations, which amounts to EUR 353 million, an increase from the previous year of 37.1%. Finally, in the road block, I would like to highlight the almost EUR 45 million to cover toll reductions, both in existing agreements and in new ones that we want to implement with the aim of enhancing the use of these roads, especially by heavy vehicles. With regard to transport subsidies, in 2018 we maintain the budgetary effort to ensure the different modes of transport subsidies. Thus, the credits for the bonus of air and sea transport tickets of residents in non-penisular territories and large families amount to 507 million euros, an increase of 15% compared to the budgets of 2017. As you know, in addition to guaranteeing 50% subsidy for tickets from residents in non- peninsular territories in movements to and from the peninsula by sea and air, we have also improved the movement between islands rising from 50% to 75%, but, as you also know, we have increased the percentage - in fact, we will increase it with the approval of these budgets - of connection with the peninsula from 50% to 75% for the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla. And of course we will also pay attention to the transport of goods with the subsidies that are already contained in the Budget Act 2017, to which we will add some others, as is the case of the accession of bananas to the system of compensations of the air and sea transport of goods. For the subsidies to the transport of goods there are destined in this year 67,2 million euros. Finally, we have the public service obligations, in which we must highlight the compensation to the railway services that is made to Renfe for an amount of 1190 million euros, with which we finance 65% of the cost of the tickets declared public service obligation, which is what makes it possible to maintain certain services for the mobility of citizens. As you know, last December the Council of Ministers approved a new declaration of PSOs in railway services and in June we plan to formalise the contract between Renfe and the General Administration of the State for the start-up of these new PSOs. They will have to be added to other air transport PSOs, which are already established and new ones, such as Melilla's connections with some peninsular destinations that are not now served, and the maritime lines of public interest, for which a total of EUR 7.4 million is allocated. As far as the air sector is concerned, also of great importance for economic activity - especially for the tourism sector - and a key element, on the other hand, for the cohesion and vertebration of our territory, we will allocate 752 million euros, an increase of 22.2% over last year. A growth in the context of an 11% fall in fares for the period 2017-2021 and a decrease in air navigation rates according to Enaire's strategic plan, which for 2018 is 3% but which for 2019 will already be 12%, which will make us have the most competitive fare of the main air providers. Enaire has budgeted 86 million for this year, mainly aimed at modernising air navigation systems in line with its 2020 Flight Plan to also meet its European commitments and in particular the construction of the Single European Sky, which will ensure favourable internationalisation and better competition from our industry. Actions will focus on evolving systems, improving efficiency, security and maintaining environmental commitments. For its part, AENA will include the items necessary to carry out the investments in order to be able to adapt to an increase in air traffic that is continuous and that will continue to be so throughout 2018. It is and will continue to be the world's first airport manager and for this we include a €645 million item, which will increase its capacity. In the harbour sector the investment reaches 900 million euros. Ports of the State invests 803 million euros to adapt the harbour infrastructures to the new requirements of the demand, especially associated to the current trends as is the case of the megaships; for the improvement of the operating conditions and security, and for the implementation of new technologies. One of the most important lines, as you already know, within the investment in the port sector is to promote better road and rail accessibility to the Spanish ports, thus improving the competitive position. To this end, EUR 192 million is allocated for access within the Maritime-Terrestrial Accessibility Financial Fund for 2018. To this must be added private investment, which this year is quantified at some EUR 1143 million. It is significantly greater - the one planned - by the concessions that are being launched, to which there was the previous year, a 72% greater. For this we will continue to take action and in these budgets, among others, there is a 10% reduction in the basic amount of the freight rate. For its part, in the marine sector it is important to highlight also the 152 million euros destined for the operation of our excellent system of marine rescue and control of marine pollution, managed by Sasemar. Finally, focusing on housing, which is one of the priority lines for the Ministry of Development, is considered four basic pillars. The first of these, as it could not otherwise be, is the Housing Plan that we have already approved, which will enhance the change in housing policy model and focus on facilitating access to housing, the creation of a rental housing park, the promotion of urban and rural rehabilitation, regeneration and renewal, and the improvement of energy efficiency and accessibility. We must also add to this the policy of legislative and regulatory improvement, including the adoption of the Spanish urban agenda, which we will try to present in a further step at the sectoral conference that we will hold at the end of this month, fulfilling the commitments we have as a country in both the European urban agenda and the United Nations urban agenda. We will also invest in the conservation of the Spanish architectural heritage to give continuity to the commitment to recovery and enrichment. The fourth pillar to which I referred is also related to 1.5% cultural, since, although not included in the budgets as such, we launched last year a first call of EUR 50 million and on 11 May we approved in the Council of Ministers a new call that will come out in very few weeks for a very similar amount, another EUR 51 million. In total, the investments collected in housing and architecture in the 2018 budgets, without considering 1.5% cultural, amount to EUR 467 million, of which 426 are related to the State Housing Plan, of which 351 are State rent and rehabilitation aid and 76 are intended for the maintenance of loan subsidy aid. And then there are the specific conventions for the rehabilitation and regeneration of neighbourhoods, which amount to 16.3 million euros, and the 20.6 million that we allocate directly in chapter 6 to architectural rehabilitation. Finally, in this housing chapter, SEPE also acts throughout the national territory to promote economic activity and the growth of the productive business fabric and investments are planned that reach almost 20 million euros in the residential field with urban regeneration operations, in the industrial field - with new developments such as the case of Curtis or Talavera de la Reina or, for example, the industrial logistic development in Malaga - and, finally, investments in infrastructures to improve the industrial actions developed. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with this review of the content of the budget of the Ministry of Development I try to show that we are facing budgets that are consistent with the economic policy of the Government for the coming years, that are committed to the productive investment of infrastructure, transport and housing, and that meet the commitments of all the territories, in line with the economic moment of recovery that our country is experiencing and that will certainly contribute to the creation of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u86	Thank you very much. In the defence of amendments, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last Sunday we saw a coven and a person entered trance, only saw Spaniards everywhere. I look and see people; I see rich people and poor people. I see territories where people have more opportunities than others, and what these General State Budgets should do is balance those differences. It's the logical thing. There are some who carry the flag in the brain and there are others we see people with whom we have to try to be fair. These budgets are not fair to all people and do not attempt to balance the imbalances that exist right now among the different people who tread this land, this Peninsula. [[Rumors]] We have heard that these budgets have a marked orange tint. Man!, we Valencians understand a lot of oranges, we have been producing and eating oranges for many years, but these budgets, in short, oranges help very little; that is, Valencians help very little, and I will set an example. Citizens, with their marked orange colour, have made three amendments to the General Budgets of the State in what would be marked Valencian colour amendments, which in my view are absolutely insufficient. We are sometimes told that we make campaign amendments, and Citizens have made 52 campaign amendments, one for each province. Castellón has received one million euros; Alicante, one million euros; and Valencia, one of 10 million euros, which I will talk about in section 32. Let's talk about those of Fomento: 1 million euros in Alicante and 1 million euros in Castellón. Considering that we are a territory 12 points below the average and that every Valencian and every Valencian will receive 67 euros less than the average in these budgets, because, frankly, with the Citizens' amendments we fix absolutely nothing. To reach the average, 67 euros for every Valencian and every Valencian would be 335 million; therefore, the orange marking budgets are not for Valencians nor orange, khaki, pear, or kiwi. They're a real... I keep the adjective. I'm finishing. Ten seconds. Sincerely, Minister, these budgets leave everything for next year. They leave, for example, everything for the coming year in investment and replenishment of infrastructures or in the Directorate-General for Roads. They budget something for now but the bulk leave it for next year and the other, and God will provide. In short, budgets in Fomento that do not satisfy and that do not do justice to the Valencians and the Valencians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u88	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u89	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled 219 amendments to this section. It may seem like a lot to someone, but the reality is that there are few because, Minister, this subsection does not meet the expectations in Catalonia, I tell you sincerely. But it is not that you do not meet the expectations of the Democratic Party or some Catalans, but that you do not meet the expectations that you and President Rajoy generated, or generate, with your visits to Catalonia. Because with these visits the promises are being counted for millions and millions and these millions are not appearing in the budget. Therefore, I do not doubt your good intention, but if the good intention is reflected in the budgets it is already a first step. It is not the final step because what has become clear to us in 2017 is that, although there were some budgeted amounts - few - the degree of implementation has been very limited in Catalonia. I was talking about ports. In Ports of the State they have executed 35% of what was budgeted in Catalonia; ADIF has executed less than 50% of its budget in Catalonia; Cercanías has executed 62% - it is data of the ministry itself, minister - of the investments in Catalonia. Therefore, it is not only to present a sufficient budget, but then it has to be implemented. We have tabled amendments in the rail sector. This year - let's hope it is the final one - will end the stretch between Vandellòs and Tarragona, still in Iberian width. We want it to be also European wide and not to end in 2022, but to move forward. We have tabled amendments to different actions in the railway field, because there is much talk about the Mediterranean corridor - sometimes the corridor is blue, sometimes the corridor is orange - but the reality is that the corridor is not yet. And we have tabled amendments in the field of road infrastructure. I will not explain to you anything about how the A-7 project is in Tarragona, because it is paralyzed; neither of the N-2 in Girona; nor of the famous variant of Vallirana; nor of the Pirenaic Axis; nor of the A-27; nor of the A-420. We have tabled amendments on all of them, which we hope will be voted on by some of you because the truth is that in Tarragona section 17 leaves much to be desired, leaves much to be desired in the budget and leaves much to be desired in the implementation of the budget. However, Minister, I would recommend, modestly, that every time you come to promise something in Catalonia tell us what budget line you are going to have reflected, because surely you will have greater credibility and we will have less work. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group has tabled 998 amendments and 367 of them for this ministry. I say the figure, 367, because it indicates the importance for our parliamentary group of everything that affects the Ministry of Development. By the way, these are amendments which are intended to amend, I believe, in a substantial way, what is already historical, both in the Valencia Country and in the Balearic Islands and in the Principality of Catalonia: an unacceptable and unacceptable situation. Look at some data, which are the origin of the problem: Catalonia is 16% of the population and 19.2% of the Spanish gross domestic product, but the investment falls to 13%. The Valencià Country, which is perhaps the most flagrant case of injustice, is 10.6% of the population and 9.3% of Spain's gross domestic product, but only 7.3% with regard to territorialized investment. The Balearic Islands accounted for 2.3 per cent of the population, 2.57 per cent of GDP and 1.7 per cent of investment. If we add to this that it is a situation that has taken place over decades, we will be able to conclude that it is a true expoliation, an expoliation maintained in time with respect to the Catalan Countries. Moreover, this expoliation is based on the normalization of non-compliance; in fact, non-compliance has become the DNA of the various Spanish Governments. An example is a case that is paradigmatic. The transfer to the Government of the Balearic Islands by statutory investments of agreements agreed by the Parliament and the Congress of Deputies amounted to 13 billion what the Spanish Governments should invest. Well, you should know that the Rajoy Government has already stated, implemented and implemented that these investments should not be made. So we are talking about scandal, a scandal that is for our territories, but which involves normal behaviour and I must admit that it is absolutely normal for the Spanish governments. Of course, the lack of investments in the Valencia Country is scandalous and, in this sense, there are forty-eight amendments that reflect the demand regarding the lack of financing of the metropolitan transport of Valencia, of the rolling stock of Valencia or of the high speed line Valencia-Alacant, not to mention other historical investments that have always been demanded by our parliamentary group and that have never had the slightest chance to be heard by the Spanish governments, in this case by the Government of the People's Party. It is also worth noting that, in addition to expoliation and non-compliance, you have normalized demagogy in all that has to do with the publication of the Government's multi-year programmes. Do you remember when Rajoy promised a rain of millions, believing that, announcing great investments, he could recover from that, which has been assumed by a large part of society, in this case Catalan, from the existence of a true expoliation? Where, for example, are the provisions of the agreements signed between the Ministry of Development, ADIF and the Generalitat of Catalonia for the period 2014-2016? Look, I'm talking to you about agreements signed for the period 2014-2016 worth 300 million. Do you know how much has been executed? Only 30 million, 10 percent. They obviously have it easy, because they have Councilman Rull in jail; see if they have it easy. Not only do they have absolute and absolutist majorities, but they even have in prison the councillor of the Government of Catalonia, Mr. Rull, who, theoretically, in a democracy that would be precious, would have to be his interlocutor in order and effect to manage even the disagreements, but, for what, if we already have him in prison? And there it is. So, look where we're getting at. We move from expoliation to non-compliance or, if they wish, from the dialectical relationship between the two and, moreover, from a situation of force which questions even the quality of the democracy of the Spanish State. In everything that belongs to the amendments that we have tabled, in particular for Catalonia, there is more to the same thing. We have a long list, a real memorial of grievances that has become such precisely because it has been perpetuated over time, and I refer to the dozens of amendments that we have tabled both on roads and on the railway system. I'm done, Madam President. The minister, landed one day in Barcelona presenting new proposals: the extension of terminal 1 of the airport of El Prat, the underground of the routes of Montcada, L'Hospitalet and Sant Joan Despí, but how do you eat all this if in Catalonia the territorialized investment is still the one that is, that is, much inferior to what we have to do with it? With this, we are absolutely condemned to remain installed in this expolium, an expolium that - I repeat - is perpetuating in time. This is the reality, so you will understand the reasons why we deny your Kingdom of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u92	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u93	Thank you, President. Section 17 is the crown jewel; its almost exclusive competence rests with the Government and, therefore, it is more difficult to divert errors from other administrations. Fomento is an investor and the one that distributes the economic cake to pieces throughout the territory, too often at a stroke of political clientelism. This 2018 budget reflects an increase of 16.4%, with an amount close to 9 billion. However, there can be no celebration when the situation of housing, territorial articulation and quality and sustainable public mobility remain unsecured in our country. The big cities and coastal municipalities are suffering a boom - this time centered on rent, the Achilles heel of our housing park -, indiscriminate rises in prices that already represent twelve times more than wages. The almost non-existence of a public park fuels the processes of speculation. The problem of access to rented housing is a direct consequence of the reform of the LAU, which has been carried out by you, the People's Party. These budgets consolidate first and second citizen Spain. Each Government, not only in the present but also in the future, presents budgets as a fundamental element in its future and present project, and you continue to use the model of speculation, which has been demonstrated over the years that it does not work. The proposals of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea are focused on achieving public, social, sustainable mobility for people, that articulates and cohesives the territory, that fights climate change, against depopulation, that removes barriers to access to services and allows to boost the economic fabric of our country. On the one hand, we require the impulse to the Atlantic, Cantabrian, Mediterranean and Andalusian corridors and to the opening of the Reus-Roda de Barà line, without forgetting either Burgos or Guadix-Baza-Lorca, or the Via de la Plata. On the other hand, we believe it is essential that the State commits itself to the financing of public transport, public transport, public transport, public transport and public transport. We're still on time. With regard to housing, we will continue to propose that the Government increase the public housing rental park to a size sufficient to influence market prices and guarantee the constitutional right to decent housing. Another model of mobility and housing is necessary and possible. The proposals of Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea are feasible in technical, economic, social and ecological terms. Where we govern we are making it possible, very much in spite of you. Its figures of improvement of the public deficit and recovery have been achieved through the asphyxiation of municipalities and autonomous communities, a policy that has prevented those with healthy finances from hiring workers to give a service to citizens and make investments in social policies. We have had to sharpen the ingenuity so that its policies did not paralyze the economic engine that the municipalities are. These budgets are a missed opportunity to focus an exit from the cohesive territorial and social crisis. We are still waiting for Granada to have a train, if Almería will continue to be an island and if its connection with poniente will continue to be forgotten. We pretend that the fact that Extremadura is connected efficiently does not seem like a pure chimera. They explain that the Mediterranean corridor has a 923 million share, but we already know that, if we do not stop it, in the year 2020 by Tarragona city will pass the freight trains but we Alvia and Euromed, that the connection of Almeria with Murcia advances in some sections in a single way and that the third lane, as has been shown in Castellón, is not a solution for long routes. The Algeciras-Bobadilla stretch we are spending so much talking about it, but realities, little ones. The rolling plan of Barcelona, Tarragona and Girona follows its path. Every minute lost in proximity mobility, which uses 423 million people, is loss of quality of life. Once again they preach good intentions for closeness. We'd like to believe you, but it's too many years with plans and projects, and executions, with droppers. On roads we are waiting for his star plan, that of infrastructures, that mortgages us for thirty years and is already questioned by the Treasury and the State Law. The question we ask ourselves is: Should we continue to build roads without more or adapt them to the future of mobility? We are still awaiting - and we must recognise that despite the Minister of the Serna - the future of high-capacity roads. I am proud that the solution adopted in its day, together with the mayors of the Pact of Berà and l'Ebre, now serves as a model of transition until the fundamental issue of this legislature is resolved. We must be brave and face the challenge of maintaining high-capacity pathways to move forward on a mobility proposal designed to address climate change. A year ago this government, the PP government, received a historic defeat when its royal decree-law of the estuba was laid in the first round; later, with improvements, it passed the parliamentary procedure and is now moving in the right direction. It is time to remember that, despite the bad wishes, the Spanish ports continue to give record figures. Maintaining social rights and improving unionization in the world of work throughout history has proved to be essential in order to adapt the social pact and improve the quality of life of citizens. Precisely the main problem of our wages is and has been the low unionization of the working class and employees. The economy needs wage improvements and breaks the gap between men and women so that the exit from the crisis is not just for a few. This is where we find another of the great shortcomings of these budgets: a commitment to public procurement is necessary, stable and of quality in Renfe, ADIF, AENA and Post Offices to maintain and transmit the added value of the accumulated experience. I'm done, Madam President. I could not forget the perversion that means conditioning a bonus to insularity, necessary, binding it to a discount in the game of Post. Last year they've already done it and this year they're putting it back together. We have been suffering for years for the future of the universal postal service and in particular for Post, the largest public company in Spain. Please respect your women workers and the effort they make every day to cohesion rural and metropolitan Spain. If anything we should be proud of as Spain's brand is to name Post Offices. Again, some show us that their patriotism is in t-shirts and bracelets, but in contents they continue as at the beginning, naked. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u94	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u95	Thank you, President. We are in the debate on budgets, which takes place when two years of parliamentary term are due. If we take a look at what these two years of legislature have entailed and what citizens feel about our work, we just have to go through the national newspapers today and read what the headlines are and what they say about parliamentary activity and political activity. We will realize that, between the flags of one and the houses of another, we are not talking about the problems of the citizens or, perhaps, we have not been able to focus on the important issues. [[applause]] If we do a review of the two years of the legislature and ask the citizens what these two years have meant, they will tell us about things like the day Rufian brought a printer, the day a mother came with her son or the day someone brought a T-shirt that was more suggestive or imaginative than the rest. I sincerely believe that at this time the only thing that has been achieved, and largely by the new policy, is to turn this Parliament into a circus, and I sincerely believe that citizens do not deserve it. Mr Rivera, who is not here, on Sunday a Spanish flag was found as if he were the Cid Campeador or the savior of the homeland, and the only thing he demonstrated and is demonstrating is that he is the most incoherent figure who has passed through the Spanish Parliament and Spanish politics. His incoherence becomes like a feather in the summer or a bather in the winter; so is Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] It is sold as a patriot based on a Spanish flag, but then, when we see what it has done with these budgets, we find that it has voted against an amendment by the Socialist Group calling for an increase in the maintenance of conventional railways. We asked for a reason: very recently there has been an accident in Extremadura in which, fortunately, there were no fatalities; a train derailed for lack of maintenance. Is it a patriot to vote against an amendment asking to ensure that all citizens feel the same? [[Applauds]] Honestly, I don't think so. When we start walking through Spain, we travel through the Leon-Benavente, through the A-66, and we see how many bumps there are, we see that Mr Rivera and the Citizens' Lords have also voted against this initiative. And the citizens of that area will ask themselves: Is that a patriot? In this country we are tired of the flag fight. I remember a long time ago a conversation with a friend who was born in France, son of extremists, who defined himself from the left and said to me: Caesar, why in Spain people of the left do not carry the flag of Spain? And it gave him a simple reason that these days has been seen better than ever: because there are some - today Citizens and Mr Rivera and formerly the People's Party - who use for partisan use a flag that would have to represent all the Spaniards. [[Rumors]] I have no problem using the Spanish flag, no problem. [[Protests]] That's why I ask the gentlemen to make a partisan use of it...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u96	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u97	...that they stop using the symbols of everyone, because homeland is done in another way. [[rumors]] Homeland is made when you agree some budgets... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u98	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u99	..., when you decide to make budgets and agree budgets, as citizens have done, which ensure that all citizens are equal. During this time in this legislature, last year and this year, we have seen how state budgets have become an auction to the highest bidder. We saw parliamentary groups with only one Member, with three Members or with four Members who were doing the exercise of taking more than the rest of the territories, creating an inequality between territories as had never been seen in this country. [[Applauds]] And we see how Mr Rivera votes and the next day a flag of Spain is sunk. To do patriotism is to ensure that all citizens are equal, that we have the same conditions and opportunities, and during these years the People's Party and Citizens have made citizens more and more unequal. Very recently, yesterday, the president of the largest Spanish bank said that we must fall back in love with Catalonia, and I believe so. I really think we need to think about the Catalans and the Catalan problem, but I will make a recommendation. We have been in the legislature for two years and every day we speak here and in the media in Catalonia. If we want to solve the problem, I think we need to stop focusing the media on that problem. We have to work quietly, we have to find a way to solve it; if not, I think it will be very complicated. Moreover, if we remove that media focus we will achieve something else, and it is that in this Parliament we talk about all the autonomous communities, we talk about Andalusians, Galicians, Asturians, people of Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, Valencia. [[Applauds]] We will talk about their problems, and the media will look at them, because we are doing a weak favor to patriotism by talking one day after another just about the issues that interest a few, about the issues that they believe can make them win a few elections. Yes, they can win them an election, but surely we lose the chance to build a country where equal opportunities are guaranteed. I did not want to talk about the amendments to the Fomento because it seems to me to be a misconception of the budget for one reason. I have told the Minister on many occasions: either we agree to establish criteria that guarantee territorial cohesion and equal opportunities and we stop using the money of all Spaniards to make partisan politics and approve budgets or they will be bad budgets for this country and especially for the next generations and for the future of this country. I think we need to change the dynamics. We offered it to the minister, but we have seen how the minister has decided to apply the investment on roads, the 5 billion, in a subjective way and goes through each territory announcing the money as if it were money that gives out of his pocket. We have to change the dynamics. I'm going to ask for something to finish. We have two years left of parliamentary term or less, it will depend on Mr Rajoy, but either we can focus on more important things or on the things that citizens believe are important or the citizens will stop trusting us, the citizens will stop staring at Parliament, they will stop focusing on our work and politics will be useless. We have to do this first for this Parliament, for the history of this Parliament, but above all for the interest of the citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor on the position-setting table.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u101	Thank you, President. When last year we defended this same section, section 17, for Fomento, we explained that the difficult quadrature of the circle of ending cuts, lowering taxes, including measures of recovery of the middle class and at the same time making a realistic budget that allowed us to meet the deficit and debt targets had made investment budgets resent. We were aware, but we knew that the country needed stability, needed the budgets that were then presented and we voted in favour. Well, this year taxes are lowered to the lowest incomes - less than EUR 18 000 are going to pay less taxes and less than EUR 14 000 will not pay taxes -, pensions are raised - up to 3% minimum and non-contributory -, social spending is growing by 3.5%, the financing of the autonomous communities is increasing by EUR 4 billion, measures such as aid for the schooling of EUR 1000 per child to families with children between zero and three years old, paternity permits are being increased again - we are already in five weeks -, a wage supplement is being included that will benefit 600 000 young people who will be able to train while working, measures are being taken to modernise the justice system, the salary matching of the State Security Forces and Bodies and measures are being included to boost the knowledge economy and to boost the research applied in universities and bring them closer to businesses. This year the budget of Fomento, even though it is far from the optimal levels, offers a much more optimistic perspective. It's a more expansive budget. As has been said, there is a 17% increase in territorial investment. The other day Mr Capdevila once again said about the radial model, but the truth is that this budget, as far as infrastructure is concerned, is betting on the corridors. Of course, the central star is the Mediterranean corridor. It's a citizen's bet. 923 million are dedicated and accounts for one third of the investment in high speed. It includes concrete measures that we had already defended, such as the La Encina-Játiva-Valencia stretch or the adaptation to the width of the UIC of Valencia-Vandellós and Vandellós-Tarragona, or the integration of the railway in Lorca. At the last session of the Committee on Development, Mr César Ramos made a very good speech; he spoke of the need to depoliticize infrastructure. We share that speech and we share it, I think, with the Member of Podemos. Today, the truth is, he's gotten a little worse. Today he has opted for demagogy and has shown a certain alarm, apparently, for the flags in which we got involved; I think he has said: let's see who had it bigger. I don't think you can see it from here, but here's the one who apparently pretended to have the biggest flag. [[Show an image on a tablet]] He's his boss, he's Mr. Pedro Sánchez, with a kilometre flag. [[Applauds]] I honestly don't understand. I attended that session that Mr Baldoví called coven and what I saw was a project based on effort and pride, a project of equality and freedom for all Spaniards, and I am proud to be on that project. From the investment budget, apart from what we have commented and from what the Minister has commented, Citizens have included a number of specific amendments. The most important are: 10 million for the integration of the railway in Madrid, especially in Delicias; 10 million for the urban adjustment of the environment of the Sants station, and an amendment especially dear to us, because it originates in the Commission of Promotion and comes from a PNL, so that they do not say that the PNL do not serve anything: 5 million for the railway connection between Santa Justa and the airport of Seville, which was defended by our deputy in that city. To this, of course, must be added - it has already been said - 10 million for the Metropolitan Transport Authority of Valencia. It is now, by the way, for the Generality and the City Council to do their duties and also contribute to making transport in Valencia better and a reality. By the way, these 10 million are accompanied by commitments to increase by another 10 million for 2019 and 2020. We would also like to highlight an amendment that we have tabled on guardrails; it is the work of our Member in Malaga. What we intend to do is that these more secure guardrails instead of being installed in the new work are installed at those points declared as most dangerous by the Invive motorcycles. In short, they are a series of realistic actions and amendments that we have proposed. We are therefore going to give our support to these budgets. I would like to end by saying to Mr Tardà that I am grateful that he is concerned about the Balearic Islands, as a member of Parliament, but the truth is that I do not thank him at all, because all this which you have mentioned - Catalonia, the Valencian Community and the Balearic Islands - cannot be understood if it is not within his vision of the mythological Catalan countries, which I assume should be dealt with more than in section 17 in a possible section devoted to science fiction in the budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u102	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll start at the end. Mr Tardà has defended amendments referring to the alleged Valencia Country. No, Mr. Tardà, the Valencians represent themselves. If Esquerra Republicana wants to represent Castellón, Alicante or Valencia, he will run for election. Every time he has run for office, he has obtained zero seats. Therefore, do not boast a representation that the Valencians have repeatedly denied you. The Valencian Community operates well without branches and without tutelaries like those that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya claims. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, de Compromís, said that little has been invested in the Valencian Community; that is why the budgets presented today by Mr Íñigo de la Serna raise the investment in that territory of the Valencian Community by 27% and why I trust that Compromís will pay more attention to its territorial origin than to its political pedigree and give it support to Mr de Fomento. It complains about this budget, which raises investment in the Valencian Community by 27%, and has tabled an amendment - which is being improved - of 1 million for my province, for Castellón. I would implore Mr Baldoví, who is from Compromís, of the same councillor who has been blocking the announcement of Mariano Rajoy and Íñigo de la Serna for 434 million euros to build a highway between the airport of Castellón and the sister province of Tarragona, who finally gives him the approval and agrees to process this great work for the province of Castellón. Don César Ramos, of the Socialist Party, said, appealing to patriotism, that we had voted against some concrete amendments in places where accidents had occurred. Does everyone know where the resources come from the amendments of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and of most of the two thousand amendments of the opposition? From road safety and maintenance. [[One Member: My mother!-Several Members: What a barbarity!]] They tear down, leave almost zero road safety and maintenance and now blame us for accidents on some roads. [[Applauds]] More surprising has been the defense of the housing policy of Podemos and Don Félix Alonso. No one's heard it. There's no more housing policy in Podemos, I haven't heard it, and it's all about housing. I will not talk about housing, I am satisfied, gentlemen of Podemos, that that youth proposal with which you came here only two years ago, in which you talked about housing being acquired in three ways: by buying, renting and occupying it, you have opted for the first formula, even if it is ostentatious. I'll settle for that. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] You, gentlemen of Podemos - who in this section, housing, have avoided talking about housing - have nothing to be ashamed of. This year, 550 000 Spaniards, also young people, some of whom seven years ago when ruling the left were planting tents here at the Puerta del Sol, will buy a new home with the reforms of the Popular Group and we are happy. Cheer up, 550 000 Spaniards will change homes and 1 300 000 Spaniards this year will change cars in order to use the roads on which the Minister of Development has raised his budget by 22%. So, cheer up. Lords of Podemos, we live in a liberal democracy, a market economy in which everyone buys the housing he wants: a small floor, a large floor, a house, some with swimming pool and others with garden, each what he wants, with freedom, with absolute freedom. [[Applauds]] Incoherence or other things will be reprehensible, but what is respectable is the right of access to housing that this group, the Popular, with reforms for seven years alone, has achieved. And why do 550 000 young people and adults change homes this year? Why do 1 300,000 people change cars this year? Why? For 2 520 000 more jobs than the reforms of the people's government alone have achieved. Why is a young man accessing mortgage credit today? First, because there are banks that might not have known it; second, because that famous risk premium that was in 600, is now in less than 90 and that is 6% less interest and, third, because Spain multiply by five the creation of youth employment. And that effort has been a solo effort of the People's Group for seven years and now as well. [[Applauds]] Now also from the Group of the European People's Party and the six parliamentary groups - Citizens, the Basque Nationalist Party, New Canarias, the Canary Islands Coalition, the Navarro People's Union and the Asturias Forum - whom we thank for defending this budget from the two thousand amendments which sought to censor it, which intended to put it down. Nothing, absolutely nothing of what has happened in Spain, is accidental, even though it is true that at times 550 000 dwellings can pass unnoticed and a single dwelling symbolizes, certifies, believes, becomes an icon of the recovery and the possibilities that this country, this nation, Spain, also offers to all its young people, have the ideas that they have, and for those who have not reached a job, the budget that has brought Íñigo de la Serna allows to raise by 62 % the aids to rent, rehabilitation with sustainability and energy saving. [[applause]] It is a state budget that allows us to move from that black hole situation in which Grupo Fomento lived, which in 2011 was met with 700 million euros of losses when it assumed the ministry doña Ana Pastor, and that today it is a pride for the Spaniards, who are owners, holders of these companies, and which this year offers 1241 million euros of profits of Grupo Fomento to the complete ownership, property and property of all the Spaniards. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that this budget is going to be an effective budget, it is going to be an engine and not a burden, like the previous Spanish governments, so that young people of all colours, of all ideas, can continue to turn their dreams into reality. Thank you very much. [[Strong and prolonged applause from the People's Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u104	Thank you very much. We move on to the debate in sections 01 to 05 and 08 to 10. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my only intervention in these days of debate and I shall take the opportunity to discuss two things. First of all, I will take this opportunity to express my great satisfaction that I have contributed to the fact that the only pact that has been signed in this legislature by the political forces, the Pact against Gender Violence, has finally reached an agreement not to be a wet paper, so that it has the budget lines that we had all agreed on of 200 million. The Canary Islands Coalition has made this clear from the outset and we have tabled an amendment of 120 million which seemed to us to be fundamental, which was in force until a minute ago when I withdrew it, given the agreement that we have all the parties reached, because I think it is important in a country that has gone out on the street saying that we must end the scourge of violence, we must end prevention, we must end education, we must end training, we must not have a child who loses his mother again and we must not have a woman who is harassed again, who is abused and killed. I am proud and I want to thank - it is not here at the moment - for the work that Socialist MP Álvarez has done, so that this reality can be effective. [[Applauds]] I want to explain why the Canary Islands Coalition is going to support these budgets and will do so because if we do not approve them, those of last year, which were also made by the People's Party and which are worse than this year's, will be extended. And it makes no sense that pensions are not raised; and it makes no sense, moreover, that there is no 200 million for gender-based violence; and it makes no sense that there is no public investment in this country, with extended budgets, to give thousands and thousands of people a job opportunity. And, above all, because we have reached an agreement with the People's Party government that puts the Canary Islands on an equal footing with the rest of the Spanish. It has not been a privilege of the nationalists, we have not sold our vote; we have achieved policies and financing of the rights of the canaries in connectivity. Because we don't have an AVE; we take the planes to go to the doctor, to go to study and it can't be more expensive to travel between Lanzarote and Madrid than between Lanzarote and London and it costs three times as much to come to Madrid. Because our goods have to compete with Moroccans. Because the European Commission told France, Portugal and Spain that the unemployment rates in the outermost regions required special employment plans and as long as we have those unemployment rates we must have them. And, above all, because it could not be that in the autonomous financing system of this country, 400 or 500 million were taken from the Canary Islands every year to compensate for remoteness and insularity, when that money of the financing system had to go to health care, to dependence, to social services. And today those revenues that compensate for remoteness and insularity are not going to compute in the financing system. And next week, when Mr Montoro sits with all the autonomous communities to negotiate the new funding system, the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands will be on equal footing with the rest of the Spanish. But, most importantly, the agreement with the People's Party will allow this to be anchored in the economic and fiscal regime and in the status of autonomy; that no longer comes a government of the PSOE or the PP, with an absolute majority, that decides that the policies that equalize the canaries with the rest of the Spaniards disappear. That is why the Canary Islands Coalition, by sense of state, because it needs the 200 million for gender-based violence, because we need to raise pensions, because we need investment in this country for employment and because they are fair budgets that need Canary Islands, we are going to support these budgets, because the alternative is worse for this country and because, moreover, the extended budget did so the same party that has presented these budgets. Therefore, in a sense of responsibility and of remembering who put me here with their votes, who is the people of the Canary Islands, Coalition Canaria will support these budgets. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u106	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, and for the defence of amendments, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u107	Thank you, President. Soon. Our group has tabled only three amendments to section 08 of the General Council of the Judiciary, so that more knowledge of Catalan can be gained from the judges. We understand that this is an outstanding subject and we therefore ask you to vote in favour. They are modest amendments, beyond that one is also generic for a greater endowment to the Judicial School. Having said that, I would like to announce to you that for the first time this parliamentary group is going to support the amendments to Section 01, Royal House. Our group has always been very respectful of the Head of State at budgetary level and we have never tabled or supported amendments. However, the conduct of the head of state from 1 October in relation not to Catalonia but to the Catalans and the events that happened in Catalonia on 1 October and 3 October and subsequent days do not seem to us welcome. It's not like a head of state. We understand that he has lost the legitimacy he had in Catalonia, surely won on other occasions and now lost absolutely in this one. That is why we are going to support the amendments tabled by the various groups for Section 01, the partial ones and the whole, which I believe there is some. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case in our case. We do manifest that the Bourbon monarchy is illegitimate; it is illegitimate. In fact, we assume that the Bourbon monarchy, re-established by General Franco, was imposed on the citizens of the Spanish state. [[The Lord]] You know perfectly well that in 1978 it was impossible for Spanish citizens to decide whether what they considered appropriate, necessary and correct was the recovery of republican legality or whether it was possible for Spanish citizens to opt for the Bourbon monarchy established, as I said, by dictator Franco. In any case, it is illegitimate to the extent that it is still pending that it is the citizens of the Spanish State who decide what form of State is. Yes, on the basis of this illegitimacy, we denounce here the opacity; obvious opacity of the head of state and of the Royal House in all that is within the democratic control of this Parliament over its resources and above all that which Parliament decides must be regarded as the source of its resources. We talk about legitimacy, we talk about opacity, and we also talk about immorality. In the last General Budgets of the State we present, as we always do, this same amendment which claims that the Head of State has the same salary as the Head of Government, the President of the Government, in this case Mr Rajoy. In the last parliamentary term the increase was 44 000 euros and in these budgets it is 68 000 euros. Thus, in two years the increase has been ten times the interprofessional minimum wage. She is immoral, immoral daughter of opacity, and all this son of illegitimacy. We are talking about 8 million a year and for President Rajoy 80 953 euros; that is, in five days, Felipe VI charges what Rajoy charges in one year. Then we will be told that it is not the king's salary - and we will hear it here - and that with that amount he has to pay the emeritus kings, the infant and the whole family. This is a false argument again since the Spanish Constitution says that the king receives from the General Budgets of the State a global amount for the support of his family and house and that he freely distributes. Certainly, freely, of course, as any other citizen does with his or her income, as any citizen who wants to pay a salary to his or her parents or children. They will also tell us that they are resources for the support of the office of the Head of State. Another false argument is that there is already an item of support for the Head of State, in the same way that the expenses of their palaces are borne by the State Heritage, that the expenses of their travel are borne by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that the security costs are borne by the Ministry of the Interior, etc. That is to say, we are talking about eight million euros of pure and hard pay. And transparency, nothing; not at all. This Parliament cannot yet simply ask for budgetary clearances of the items which this Parliament itself approves. Look, a Parliament which approves a budget but at the same time cannot demand the budgetary clearances of those items which Parliament itself, Members of Parliament, has approved! This has no parallel in Europe and certainly no legitimacy. In this same legislature, still today, in the year 2018 - check out, in the year 2018! - we are rejected questions addressed to the government shielding or arguing that they are not the responsibility of the government or its competence. For example: still today we do not know how many officials work in the Royal House and who pays for them; or who pays for the track and the horses that exist in real dependencies. And I am talking about these examples since they are somewhat scandalous but, in short, we are always talking about the same thing: of a consolidated opacity over the years to the extreme that claim normality, that which is normal in Europe in the various parliaments of crowned democratic states, here it is perceived - even by you, by the majority of you, I recognize it - as something abnormal, abnormal and even straphalar. Look where we are. Well, this is the reality of the kingdom of Spain, and so it goes to all of us, but the opacity, I repeat, is not random; in fact, note that different sources have consolidated over the years that Juan Carlos de Borbón is one of the great fortunes that exist in Europe, even in some documentation, crossing the borders of European fortunes. But this, apparently, doesn't matter. Certainly not of interest, I must admit that it is not of interest or not of interest to most of you, which does not mean that your disinterest or even your monarchy - even from a part of the Spanish left - gives legitimacy, I repeat, to a dynasty that has not been able to put its destiny in the ballot box. Put in the ballot box the fate of this dynasty that was imposed by one of the bloodiest dictators of the twentieth century. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Firstly, we have tabled amendments to Section 01 on the Royal House. In fact, one, from his full republican convictions, beyond making an amendment to the whole of this section what he would do would be an amendment to the whole institution. But although perhaps this site is the place, it is probably not the time and it is not the issue, so we are going to direct our amendments focusing on budget moderation, transparency in the management of these budgets and also on accountability. Moderation. We see in the budgets an increase of 70 million euros in the budgets allocated to the Royal House. In a context of general budget items in the freezing or reduction of amounts, we obviously cannot agree that it is a priority to increase this expenditure of the State. However, we have again identified a privileged departure, drawn in the image and likeness of the institution to which it is addressed. Once again, we see that the supposed economic recovery is essentially monopolized by those who have never entered the crisis. On the other hand, transparency. We advocate homologating the criteria of transparency, scrutiny, accountability, at the same level as other State agencies, in order to know, among other things, whether the monarch's travels aim to defend human rights, the international defence of democracy or whether its objective is to act as an intermediary in the sale of arms in Saudi Arabia, of undeniable success, is true, or whether its trips are, for example, to Botswana, with the aim of engaging in hunting and camps. These are our amendments to the General Budgets of the State referring to the king's house, but we would not like to avoid a criticism of the monarch's alleged arbitral function, for example, in his management of the Catalan conflict or also in his instrumentalization by certain powers of the State as a repressive tool to bring raptors to prison. From here our support for Valtonyc, who, unfortunately, will end up incarcerated for an absolutely unjust cause. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, we have tabled amendments to the budgets for the General Courts aimed at providing human resources to two bodies dependent on them which, unfortunately, are absolutely under-funded, so that they become practically useless or inoperative, such as the Military Life Observatory and the Budget Office of the General Courts. Their very limited staffing makes them practically symbolic organisms. In the same vein, we have also tabled amendments to the Court of Auditors. The budgets allocated to the Court of Auditors are also absolutely inadequate. They are practically focused on the wage rise of workers who already exist in this body. As you know, it is a fundamental body in the fight against corruption, a fundamental body in the transparency of the resources of political parties and a fundamental body in the control of the waste of public administration. As we see that these are practically cooked budgets between the People's Party and the Citizens' Party, this under-financing of the Court of Auditors could be intended to avoid further irregularities in the orange party, so we should not be surprised by this under-financing of the Court of Auditors either. These are also amendments aimed at the inefficient management of these resources; amendments aimed at the necessary monitoring of allocations and bonuses to employees of the Court of Auditors; amendments aimed at monitoring the abuse of free-of-charge recruitment; amendments aimed also at challenging expenditure which could be regarded as superfluous, such as in publications, press, magazines, etc., to the detriment of staff training; amendments aimed also at ending the abuse of the figure of free-of-charge recruitment by the Court of Auditors, which is already causing so many problems in the Court of Auditors itself. As you will know, there are a number of appeals before the Supreme Court that will possibly end with convictions to the Court of Auditors, convictions that will require new budget allocations to meet the economic impact on the Court of Auditors, and also criticism of external service procurement processes, as we have recently seen in the procurement of the Court of Auditors' cleaning services, which have also been the subject of a complaint before the Administrative Court and which will probably also end with another sanction to the Court of Auditors. Finally, also fundamental chapter, are the amendments tabled to section 08 of the General Council of the Judiciary, which, as you will know, see their allocations increased by 3.3%, but which, again, in the same way as was done in the 2017 budgets, leaves a huge gap in the budgets for the training of judges. This does not leave the rule of law unpunished and, as we have seen recently, it is essential to train judges on gender issues, on issues of feminism, to end once and for all with those patriarchal inertias that are reflected in the sentences and that leave half the population of the Spanish State unprotected, as unfortunately we have seen recently. We are not going to be fooled, these inertias have been reflected in judgments like La Manada. It is essential to invest in training on the specific treatment of sexual violence. Otherwise, we must not miss other sentences with a clearly patriarchal drift. In the same vein, it is also essential to invest in training in co-official languages, training in linguistic rights of citizenship, rights that are constantly violated by the courts and where the only solution is awareness-raising through training in this field. There is also a need for the modernisation of the Administration of Justice, and it is clear that modernising the Administration of Justice is not about purchasing computers. Modernizing the administration of justice is the twenty-first century, which is an essential leap from the nineteenth to the twenty-first century in order for justice to truly be a public service, a safeguard of the rights of citizens, a guarantee of judicial protection and a guarantee of independent justice. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Finally, we deeply miss the necessary plan to correct the course of contempt of the General Council of the Judiciary, an organ that since 2013 has especially had a clearly presidential composition, a course that has to be corrected once and for all: to modify the functions and organization of the council and to allow once and for all the council to be perceived by citizens and professionals as a belt of transmission of the political wills of the executive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Moya. Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about institutions which, for the most part, are getting a small improvement over the previous budget, the 2017 budget, we have therefore rejected amendments which sought to change their budgets upwards or downwards. The budget of the Royal House rises by 0.8 per cent, standing at 7.8 million, which is not that the king wins, as some of those who have preceded me in the use of the word have said, but it is for the whole Royal House, as Mr Tardà has well advanced. At a time when the budget of the Courts rises by 2.2 per cent, that of the Constitutional Court, which is much lower, rises by 1.1 per cent, that of the Court of Auditors rises by 1.1 per cent, that of the Council of State, by 4.8 per cent and that of the General Council of the Judiciary, by 3.2 per cent. Overall, increases are all below the average budget increase. In any case, in Citizens we consider a priority extra-budgetary issue, such as the regeneration of institutions, of their prestige, so that they deserve the confidence of citizens again. If we do not invest powerfully in these institutions, the disaffection that has been generated in citizenship and the discrediting of these institutions will continue to worsen. With regard to the Royal House, we want the institution to play the role assigned to it by the Constitution and that cooperation with similar institutions in our environment puts us in a position of advantage, at least in terms of exemplaryness. That is why we are not going to support the proposed cuts by Podemos and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. Gentlemen of Podemos, you say in your amendment that the entire budget of the Royal House, which rises, as the spokesman has just said, is 70 million. The reality is that 68 000 euros is coming up, as Mr Tardà has pointed out, so they do not even seem to know what world they live in. In the case of Esquerra Republicana, its amendments propose to empty the budget of the Royal House. Of course, they do not forgive Philip VI's speech on 3 October, which triggered the reaction of society, which came out on the street on 8 October, and of course they do not forgive the application of 155. Mr Tardà, you know that I have intellectual respect and a certain affection, and we can talk - logically in other forums - about what model of state and what model of head of state we can have, whether a monarchy or a republic, but what we are talking about today is budgets and when you establish elements such as illegitimacy, opacity and immorality, let me tell you - and I tell you with all my affection - that of course it seems to me much more immoral to a person who claims to be president of all Catalans and who tains the rest, those who do not think like him, of unclean, foul and half-hearted beasts. I would certainly ask you to have some respect for the current head of state, who also represents us all, unlike other heads of state. We must bear in mind that the head of state is the highest ambassador of the Spanish brand and the institution, as you know, is a guarantee of equality and unity for all Spaniards. That is why my group will support these budgets in these sections. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak on behalf of the Socialist Group to establish my group's position on sections 01, House of the King; 02, General Courts; 03, Court of Auditors; 04, Constitutional Court; 05, Council of State and 08, General Council of the Judiciary. We started with section 01. Republican Left of Catalonia has historically tabled an amendment against the section of the King's House and against the king's salary. Also in its day it was traditional for the extinct to do so, in parliamentary terms, United Left. [[Mr. Arrojo Agudo: We're still here, Your Honor.]] Now it makes it logically United We Can-Common Can-On Sea. The spokesman of the PDeCAT, Mr Bel, has even added to the criticism of the existence of the Royal House and its behavior. Some socialist colleague in this rostrum came to say in his day that it seemed that some parliamentary group intended to overthrow the monarchy through the amendments. It was explained by the Socialist Group over and over again, year after year, that section 01 is a consequence of article 65 of our Constitution, which says that the king receives from the budgets a global amount for the support of the Royal House and its family - which was not the king's salary - and for the provision of resources for the dignified performance of the functions that our Constitution confers on that institution. He further explained that the distribution of that item, of those funds, was liberal, that their majesty was free to dispose of them, and that it was subject to the intervention and transparency that our legal norms set. [[The lady]] This can be changed, Mr Tardà, of course, by a majority of Parliament, in a legal way, let us do so, but for the time being it complies with the procedures of intervention and transparency laid down by our legal rules, which are intended to comply with them. Some Esquerra partner tells me no, I know you don't like them but you're about to fulfill them. They were not worth the argument - and that was repeated and well-founded - and they are still making mistakes, this time with more pollution. It seems they didn't like the king's speech very much last October 3rd, Mr. Bel, who until then were... Anyway, they didn't like it at all. Right? And they extend their political criticisms to the rest of Spanish democratic institutions that ensure compliance with our Constitution by questioning their democratic quality and seeking their delegitimization. The same ones who speak of illegitimacy, opacity and immorality have had no packaging or problem in voting for a president of the Generalitat known publicly for his activist and extravagant character, but what is worse, for his xenophobic and supremacist writings. They have broken with their political trajectory and put forward the demos, the people - even if in this case it is a Catalan social minority in favour of the independence process, a Catalan social minority, that is, those elected for you - in front of the ethos, its principles, that supposed ideology of the left. They have supported a project that has generated a deep division in Catalan society, a social fracture that will be very complicated to recompose and more if they continue in a process that seeks to confront rather than unite. I would like Esquerra to have more respect for the democratic quality of Spain and its institutions - among which, I insist, this Parliament - and I would like him to make a policy of coexistence between different people and not of confrontation. We will therefore vote against your amendments. In relation to section 02, the Puedos-En Comú Puedos-En Marea Group proposes to provide the Courts' Budget Office with more resources. We agree with that initiative. This budget office of the Courts was established on 28 October 2010 with a socialist president and government. I'd like to recall some anecdote about it. In dealing with the 2004 budget, six months after losing power to the People's Party, the PP Group called for the return of section 02 of that budget because it lacked the figure of the budget office. Our Budget Spokesman at that time, Mr Fernández-Marugán, the current Ombudsman and a magnificent parliamentarian, a magnificent person and a magnificent socialist, reminded him that in the eight years of the PP government neither Montoro nor Rato nor Rudi nor Trillo nor Aznar did anything to create that control institution, they did nothing, but, once the PP lost everything, they categorically demanded that this budgetary office be set up, and our Spokesman Mr Marugán lamented the tortuous relationship suffered by those MPs of the PP who were now so vehemently demanding the office after Aznar's autocratic eight. We launched it, the PSOE launched it, and the People's Party government is letting it languish. We therefore support initiatives that give it more resources to carry out its necessary function of parliamentary control and information. With regard to the amendment also by Unite Podemos concerning the current expenditure of the Military Life Observatory, we said in the Commission that we agreed. We believe that the Military Life Observatory should be given more resources, but we said that there was a mistake in the amendment because it stated that the budget for increasing current expenditure was EUR 100 000 thousand, that is to say EUR 100 million. You'll understand it's a little barbarity. Finally, we agree with the objective, but it seems to us that with the amount they are passed a little. With regard to Section 03, Court of Auditors, we agree with the need to provide the Court with more resources and we will vote against the amendment by Esquerra on the Constitutional Court for the reasons I explained at the beginning of my speech. With regard to the amendments tabled to section 08, the General Council of the Judiciary, we share the need to proceed with its modernization and to provide more resources for it, but we do not share the reflections contained in Amendment 7 of Esquerra, and 4222 of Unite Podemos. With regard to the remaining amendments to that section, we will vote in favour of those of the PDECAT. Finally, Madam President, sections 09 and 10 have also been added to this section of the debate - I am going to make a more prosaic and softer intervention - which are novel and replace the historic section 31, except that the opposition groups used as a tailor's drawer to finance the high ones in the amendments. You will recall last year that an intense debate took place around section 31 because the majority supporting the Government's draft tried to veto the debate on thousands of amendments, arguing that, once the balance of section 31, which was EUR 15 million, had been exhausted, the rest of the amendments that were against the section could not be voted for a balance. And you will recall that there was a manoeuvre to exhaust that departure which, due to incompetence or inability of the parties supporting the Government, failed and the debate could be held. President, I'll be right there. The Government had decided to delete section 31 directly; it had eliminated it directly from the budget. He must have thought the dog was dead, but get out here! that the majority of the Bureau accepted the amendments which went down to Section 35, Contingency Fund, with the opposite vote, it is true, of the two members of the five PP. President, I'm done. One item from EUR 15 million to another with an initial balance of EUR 25 billion has become available. This may cause astonishment, but they are of those paradoxes or absurds that sometimes happen in this house.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u116	Your Honor, you have to finish because your time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u117	I'm done. And in this case the opposition parties agree. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u118	You're welcome. Mrs Bonilla Domínguez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Tardà, and I also say this from the recognition and personal respect I have for you, it is not all good in politics and one cannot come here to insult and not to fail the truth. You've made serious accusations here. He spoke of an illegal Constitution and spoke of an illegal head of state, among other qualifications. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma: Illegitimate]] Unlawful. Thanks for the math. It's barbarity, Mr. Tardà. You and I are subject to article 9 of the Constitution. We must respect the Constitution and the law, like all Spaniards and all public authorities. You know very well that the 1978 Constitution was approved jointly by the Constituent Courts on 31 October 1978 and endorsed by the Spanish people on 6 December 1978. Do you know what electoral census was in Spain at the time? There were 26.5 million Spaniards in that census. Do you know the participation of that referendum? More than 67 per cent. Do you know what backing you had from the Spaniards? Almost 92% of Spaniards supported this Constitution and you know very well that this Constitution in the Preliminary Title, Article 1, paragraph 3, states that the form of government of the Spanish State is a parliamentary monarchy. And you also know very well that Title II refers to the Crown, and you also know very well that Article 56 says that the king is head of state. [[Applauds]] Symbol of the unity and continuity of the permanence and also arbiter and moderator of the ordinary functioning of our institutions and also the highest representative of the Spanish State at the international level. And he is also, logically, obliged to perform the functions assigned to him by the Constitution. Article 61, Mr.Tardà, also says that the king, once proclaimed in the Courts, will take an oath - and our king has lent it - to faithfully comply with his obligations and to keep and keep the Constitution and the law, as well as to respect the Spanish and the autonomous communities. That, exactly that, is what he is doing and has made our king, the head of the State of Spain. Well, following on with the Constitution, article 65 - and I am addressing all your lordships in a special way - is the one that contemplates that the king receives from the General Budgets of the State a global amount for the support of his family and the Royal House and that it will be freely distributed on his part. You also know, like the other Members, that the allocation this year - and that of others - of EUR 7 887 000 is not an amount intended for the king. You know perfectly well that from that item - and you just need to look at the 2017 budget, you say that there is opacity but I invite you to enter the website of the Royal House - only 8.5% was destined for the salaries of your majesty the king and the members of the Royal House; 48% to the rest of the staff attached to the Royal House. Do you know the Royal House mission? It is an organ directly dependent on the king who facilitates and supports him in the performance of his duties. 36% was earmarked for general expenses, yes Mr. Tardà, maintenance, protocol, travel... Infinite concepts that affect daily life in the fulfilment of their institutional obligations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about section 01, which relates to the budget for the Royal House, we are talking about a budget that is constitutional - the Constitution requires it - of a heading that is necessary, because it is needed by the head of state to carry out his duties independently - that is very important, it is a function inherent in his constitutional responsibilities - and we are also talking, ladies and gentlemen - here I am addressing other speakers, such as that of Podemos and also that of the Joint Group, Mr Ferran Bel - of certain austere items, and I am going to tell you why. Allow me a reference to one of the first attitudes of his majesty the king. In the 2015 budget, his Majesty decided to reduce the amount allocated to his personal remuneration by 20%. If we compare the budget line of the Spanish Royal House with the budget lines of other real houses - we have to remember that the rest of the real houses are also budget lines from the public era - we see that ours, the Spanish Royal House, is the most austere. The British Royal House, 42 million budget; that of Holland, 42.3 million; that of Norway, 18 million; if we look at other systems such as, for example, the French Republic, 113 million. I want to remind you that the Spanish is 7.8 million. If we look, for example, at the Italian Republic, it is 228 million. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a game which, compared to the rest of Europe, is adjusted, moderate and, in addition, a game which has been frozen. It was frozen in 2010, from 2011 to 2014 suffered several reductions, in 2015 and in 2016 it was frozen, it is true that in the 2017 budget it rose by 0.5 and in this it has risen by 0.8. By the way, to the spokesman for Podemos I want to say that it is not 70 million but 68 000 which has meant the rise. Speaking of transparency, we have to study things. The Royal House is subject to the Transparency Act, as you well know, which is a 2013 law of the People's Party Government. In addition, for the express desire of his majesty the king signed an agreement with the General Administration of the State and it is the General Intervention of the State that annually audits the accounts of the Royal House and, for the express desire of his majesty the king, are also published on the website. On the website you have detailed everything: the distribution of the budget item, how it is being spent and, of course, with all the expenses, the distribution of all the expenses assumed by the Royal House, subject to all the responsibilities of tax and labour taxes. Ladies and gentlemen - and I finish, Madam President - we are dealing with a part, that of section 01, which is constitutionally binding; it is an austere part, it is a transparent part - there I invite you, I repeat, to enter the website - and it is an absolutely necessary part for your majesty the king to continue to perform the functions entrusted to him by the Constitution. By the way, I want to say that his majesty is doing a great service to Spain and is carrying out his duties with absolute respect and loyalty to the Constitution, Spain and the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u120	Thank you very much. We move on to the debate on sections 32, Other financial relations with territorial entities, 33, Interterritorial Clearing Funds and 35, Contingency Fund. Mr Baldoví Roda spoke in defence of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] Mr. Bel Accensi, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u121	Thank you very much, President. Go ahead, at the risk of being called to order by the Madam President, who I am going to ask, first of all, that Mr Lasarte - I do not see him now in the Chamber - and Mr Ramírez withdraw the insults that have been cast in relation to the very honourable President of the Generalitat. These insults are not welcome. They're not receipts. I am going to talk about it, Madam President, because it was Mr Lasarte and Mr Ramírez who spoke about it and nobody drew their attention. Look, Mr Ramírez, by questioning the legitimacy of the President of the Generalitat by contrasting it with the legitimacy of King Philip VI, I think he is absolutely mistaken. Because do you know what the answer is that's obvious? Do you know what the legitimacy of the President of the Generalitat is? It has been elected by the votes of the Catalan Parliament, which in turn has been elected by the votes of all Catalans. So my question is, who voted for King Philip VI? What election did he run for? What legitimacy does the abdication of your father give you? He's legitimate because his father abdicated. And he on October 3, Mrs Bonilla, abdicated to represent all the Spaniards, because he abdicated to represent the Catalans, whether they like it or not. It was a capital abdication. And that in Catalonia, and I believe that in one part of the rest of the Spanish state, he will be taken into account and persecuted during his term of office. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I have listened very attentively to you, even when you have insulted the President of the Generalitat, therefore, all I ask is that you have the same respect and listen attentively to me. I don't ask you to share my opinion, I ask you to listen to us. By questioning the legitimacy of the President of the Generalitat they are completely wrong. It is absolutely legitimate and it is absolutely legitimate not because it is the 134th president of the Generalitat, which also, but because it has been elected by the people of Catalonia. [[Mr. Ramírez Freire makes negative gestures]] Having said that, as I see that my colleague Baldoví has joined, I will quickly conclude so that he can give time to make his speech. We have tabled four amendments to section 32. Of these four amendments, there are two related to urban transport, one to the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority, which seeks to restore what the State has ceased to contribute over the past three years. The truth is that we are surprised because Citizens tabled an amendment and we think: well, it is not the 30 million that we ask for but the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority will have an additional 10 million, but no, no, they have traded it. They didn't trade Valencia or Madrid, but they have traded it, and they have traded it to do some works that ADIF had an obligation to do the same in Catalonia. I had no obligation to put these 10 million into the Metropolitan Transport Authority but to do the works. Therefore, you have done the trick of the Almendruco with this contribution. In any case, I take the rest for granted. Thank you so much. Sections 32, Other financial relations with territorial entities; 33, Interterritorial Clearing Funds; and 35, Contingency Fund
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u122	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví Roda. Mr Baldoví Roda: Thank you very much. And today I will say it twice: many thanks, Madam President. And many thanks to Mr. Bel. We have come to defend our amendment to section 32. Mr. Cantó said the other day that he was talking about the usefulness or not of Compromís. When we talk about utilities, I'd say one thing. Mr. Cantó's party, Citizens, committed itself in the Valencian Courts, signed in the Valencian Courts so that the investment in the General Budgets of the State would be close to the populational weight of the Valencians; that was twice signed by Mr. Cantó's party. Sure, when he gets to Madrid he forgets. So what is the point of a party that when it comes to Madrid it forgets what it has signed in Valencia? If we follow the reasoning, if the Valencians are a territory 12 points below the average, if these budgets, like all the previous ones, the one last year that Mr Cantó and Citizens approved also marginalized us, what use do the Valencian citizens' deputies have? What use do they have? [[Applauds]] This year every Valencian and every Valencian will receive 67 euros less than the average. If we do a multiplication, 5 million Valencians per 67, it will result in 300 or 330. You, the useful, have tabled three amendments worth EUR 12 million. Why do we want them here if they don't defend the interests there? They have tabled three amendments and they have tabled fifty-two, one for each province, in order to be able to say: yes, we are useful in negotiating. Here to negotiate we have seen that we are all useful in drawing the 120 million amendment that had not even occurred to you. [[Applauds]] That is where the usefulness of negotiating has been seen. Finally, we have tabled an amendment for what the mayors ask; mayors of all political parties, less their own because they have no mayor. [[Rumors]] Yeah, I know they're gonna have one, but they don't have one right now. The mayors were asking for 38 million euros and we have tabled that amendment, which first vetoed it with the People's Party and Citizens' Party, and then approved one of 10 million. Hey, we need 38 million, not 10. They are able to approve a lot of other things like painting a municipal fence or polysports and, instead, for the metropolitan transport of 2 million people are not able. You'll know, useful gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u123	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Ramos Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. From what we see, the focus on defending these budgets continues and has been on constantly demanding those groups that do not support them to explain why we do not want these budgets, rather than explaining and convincing the rest of the country model that this law proposes. This will undoubtedly raise more problems for you, especially among some of your partners. But it seems that those who are not in favour of these budgets, who consolidate social cuts and widen the social gap, do not want budgets, but we do want budgets. In fact, Unido Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we have presented alternative budgets. What we do not want is these budgets; budgets which, with regard to sections 32 and 33 that deal with us, relations with territorial entities and territorial compensation funds, could be summarized, paraphrasing another raptor, Mala Rodríguez, for now not in prison: I have a deal, yours my bag. [[Applauds]] Because it seems that the municipalities are saving you the accounts in Brussels and, moreover, they are losing with these budgets democratic quality, imposing a recentralisation and not solving the structural problems of local autonomy, which are: the irrationality of the rule of spending, the indebtedness and the limitations on the recruitment of staff by local authorities. In the Committee on Budgets, in this section, the People's Party justified the limited resources allocated to autonomous communities and local authorities as a result of the crisis. It would be good to discuss who is producing this crisis, how it is produced and who is paying for the consequences, but what is clear is that this economy is recovering at a very different rate from what is being invested in autonomy and local authorities, which is still 8% lower than 2011. He also indicated to us in relation to the expenditure rule that it was something very necessary because, if not, budgets were being made for the Tuntun, as the PSOE had done. I'm not going to go in and discuss whether the PSOE's budgets were made of tungsten or not, but what I can assure you is that you can't give any kind of lessons on how to make budgets to the municipalities of change. [[Applauds]] Some municipalities that have had a surplus, which have a surplus that cannot reinvest in social improvements because of a spending rule; a spending rule that has also been questioned by Airef at its last appearance; a spending rule that is suffocating our cities, cities we want alive because we believe they have to have the capacity to meet the needs of their neighbours and neighbours, while her Government does the only thing that it does is to continue a refocusing project with a very clear objective: to cut the social state that is largely already managing the autonomous communities and municipalities. Its ideal model would be for the autonomous communities to be a kind of large provincial deputies with no real competence to act. We repeat once again that it is not just a question of the model that you and Citizens defend being centralist, but that allows you to further weaken our welfare social state. On the other hand, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, section 33, remains insufficient and the distribution criteria are unclear and do not allow for territorialization in response to the productive and social investment needs of the autonomous communities. This system does not guarantee equity for several reasons; one, it presents significant disparities in funding with difficult justification; two, it implies a high complexity because the criteria are excessive and often contradictory; and three, it increases social inequalities and territorial gaps. In the face of these arguments, you answer that the territorial distribution is what it is, but it is that things are not what they are, but what are decided through parliamentary legislation, which in turn should be the product of the representation of the will of the people. Ah, of course, but here I forgot that you do everything in a decree-law manner, vetoing parliamentary initiatives and vetoing, as has been mentioned many times these days, the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups. In the face of these vetoes, you reply that the Government has that power, that it uses it and point. And, if not, you always have 155, because we cannot forget that for the first time the implementation of article 155 of the Constitution has been carried out by fully intervening the self-government of an autonomous community and most likely by violating the rules and the Constitution, a gesture that clearly demonstrates the inability of this Government to respond to the territorial problem and the exhaustion of the autonomous state. For this reason, our group is submitting an amendment to the refund of sections 32 and 33 of the draft General State Budgets, but also, in pursuit of a more appropriate system of financing for the autonomous communities and local authorities, we are submitting a set of additional amendments because we understand that in order for our cities to continue to have the capacity to meet citizens' demands, it is necessary to amend the Law on Local Regime Bases and the Law on Local Finances, as well as the Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability. To this end, we have tabled a group of additional amendments that will allow local corporations, which have made significant consolidation efforts, to have greater capacity to carry out investments that are immediately translated into greater welfare for cities and that will in a short time imply greater capacity for growth without eroding public accounts. We therefore also consider it necessary, on the one hand, to relax the measures included in the adjustment plan to ensure the normal functioning of the municipality, ensuring its viability, obtaining advances on account of the State's contribution to taxes and creating a financial fund for local entities in situations of financial emergency. We also call for regulatory subsidies to be granted to the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority for the financing of regular passenger transport that complies with the commitments made and that under no circumstances is less than EUR 130 000. In this spirit, we will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by PSOE and Compromís aimed at implementing the correction of the investment deficit in the Autonomous Communities, the investment plan and the Metropolitan Transport of the Community of Valencia. We simply hope that these amendments, which are unfortunately not vetoed, can be taken into account so that we can have fairer budgets that do not stifle the administrations that are responding to the needs of citizens. Because, I repeat, we do want budgets, but budgets that offer equality and shielding of public services, consolidate a system of fair and equitable distribution, end the logic of cuts, impose inter-territorial solidarity against the discretion and bilateralism of the Government. Because we believe that we are undergoing a re-centralisation and we need our cities to be able to meet the demands of the citizens that their Government is constantly disheartening. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u125	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u126	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start my speech by saying that it is a sad day for Spanish democracy. We've woken up with two news stories that have outstripped us. The first, the imprisonment of a former minister and former president of an autonomous community, and the second, the investigation of a Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Fernández de Moya. We are talking about a finance secretary who is being investigated for very serious crimes: embezzlement, falsification of public document, prevarication, trafficking in influence. Very serious issues in a Secretary of State for Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, a serious government and a worthy government would not be allowed a second to have a Secretary of State for Finance charged or investigated by these serious - alleged - accusations and crimes. It's intolerable. And I will say more, it is up to me to talk about three sections that should be managed by Mr Fernández de Moya. The Andalusians know him very well. Being mayor stopped a tram that was operating in Jaén and led the city to be among the most indebted in Spain for not complying with a rule of spending that it then used to intervene the City of Madrid as secretary of state; known for being continuously in political cyenagas, accusing maliciously and maliciously people who have suffered their permanent scourge. An expert in the political science, today investigated and imputed and who will manage these three sections. I ask for respect for this country, I ask the Government to respect it and to resolve this unsustainable situation of a Secretary of State investigated for very serious crimes; his Secretary of State for Finance. [[applause]] The Socialist Group has tabled six amendments to these three sections. One of them of 1250 million euros to comply with the law, to comply with the statutes of autonomy of six communities: Andalusia, Catalonia, Aragon, Extremadura, Baleares and Castile and León. Rules adopted in a referendum and by this Parliament and which continue to be violated repeatedly. My community, Andalusia, is owed more than €3271 million for not applying the third additional provision and we ask that they be compensated, compensated and enforced by the law, because there are many needs of these six autonomous communities. A serious Government would first not force others to comply with the law, but first to comply with it itself. We have also included amendments to support metropolitan areas of Valencia, Barcelona, Asturias and the Canary Islands. We think it is necessary to support them but not with that transactional look and don't touch me mixed up for the metropolitan area of Valencia, which is a real deception. We also discussed the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, ladies and gentlemen, something very serious. Analysts and even the European Commission itself show that inequality is a huge problem in this country and that inequality has gone further in the years of crisis. To address inequality, one needs to know what three factors affect it. First, it affects an income factor, where precarious employment and the wage gap have an impact on the factor of inequality. A second, very important factor is the little effect that social policies are having because they have been substantially reduced, which is creating little compensatory effect, and is creating more inequality. There is a third factor, which is the territorial factor. There is a historical territorial imbalance and there are a number of mechanisms for creating equality and territorial balance, such as the structural funds through the ERDF and the European Social Fund; there are compensatory funds in Europe and there is a mechanism set out in the Spanish Constitution in its Article 158, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. A mechanism aimed at improving the standard of living and eliminating the territorial gap in our country. This is the exercise of this mechanism ; total cancellation during the People's Party government, freezing by 432 million during these years of People's Party government, reduction by up to 81 per cent from the maximum of 2225 million in 2010. [[shows a graph]] This is the result of the implementation of that mechanism. We therefore demand that territorial compensation be addressed in order, through this factor of territorial equality, to intervene in the huge gap that currently exists. Section 35 refers to the fund established in the Stability Act as a contingency fund for unforeseen and non-discretionary expenses, which is quantified in the General Budget Act, but which through this Parliament and the General State Budgets Act must be quantified with a law of the same rank. We denounce that the People's Party has tried in all possible ways that it could not be used, trying not to admit what is an opposition right, which is to draw an alternative budget...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u127	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u128	I conclude, President. To draw up an alternative budget through the amendments that we have tabled by the various groups, including the Socialist Parliamentary Group. They have tried to avoid that alternative budget that we draw because it is our obligation and because there is another way to govern and more fairly redistribute income and wealth in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u129	Thank you. Mr Ten Oliver has the floor at the time of the position-setting by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u130	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Section 32 contains extraordinary revenues for territorial entities, both autonomous communities and municipalities, which in the General Budgets of the State for 2018 rise by 30%; from 931 million euros to 1210 million euros. Section 33 maintains the Interterritorial Compensation Fund at EUR 582 million, although autonomous financing during the crisis has had extraordinary liquidity instruments totalling EUR 189 848 million between 2012 and 2017; last year it was exactly EUR 29 500 million. By the way, Catalonia has been the autonomous community that has made the most use of these funds. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group has recorded two amendments to Section 32, which have actually been negotiated, Mr Bel, which have been negotiated. You may not like them, but Valencia's metropolitan transport already has here in the allocation 109 million euros. As for the Royal House and the figure of the king, he cannot say these things since it is endorsed by all Spaniards in the 1978 Constitution with all democratic legitimacy, and if they do not like, they can urge their modification, I told you yesterday, if they do not like the laws, they can urge their modification. What cannot be and cannot be received is that you skip the law and skip the deals. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that throughout yesterday's and today's debate our position, the will of Citizens to negotiate, to work for stability and to have a budget in 2018 thus avoiding the continuity of this extension of 2017; enabling, in short, new projects, new investments and new reforms that improve the text as well as an increase in financial resources for the autonomous communities and local entities for an amount of 4248 million euros for health, education and social services. It is true that this year the record of amendments has been broken, there are more than 6900, but it is also true that the vast majority are a toast to the sun, they are weight amendments and they must explain it, ladies and gentlemen. How many of those you've presented are going to approve? How many of them have you really sat down to negotiate and work on these amendments with the Government? On the contrary, I am proud to announce to you that of the 260 amendments which will be incorporated into the text of the opinion, 80 are ours and 51 correspond to territorial requirements. Each and every province of Spain will benefit from that negotiating work that the Citizens team has done. We are going to follow that principle of equality, solidarity and equity which is reflected in our Constitution and also those €8 billion in agreements to improve basic needs, reduce taxes, pay better pensions, increase allocations for gender-based violence and an endless number of amendments and reforms that we have discussed here in plenary. By the way, Mr de Compromís, this is of particular benefit to the Valencian Community, Mr Baldoví, this is of benefit to our community because you know, and you have acknowledged, that it is of the poorest communities, 12 points below the national average. This, Mr. Baldoví, is certainly useful. [[Applauds]] I wanted to talk to you about Amendment 3371. Mr. Hurtado was telling us this is a deception. Well, welcome as many deceptions as this, Mr. Hurtado. Amendment 3371, that 10 million for metropolitan transport, is a state administration for the first time, breaking that injustice that was occurring, as we have said: Barcelona has 109 million and Madrid has more than 120 million. I must admit that we are pleased with the change in the position of the People's Party to join this amendment, and we are beginning to make a commitment to provide 20 million in the next financial year and another 30 million in 2020, in spite of Compromís, in spite of Mr Baldoví for his frustration that he has achieved absolutely nothing. Frankly, it is the most useless nationalism, and now I can say it; Mr Singed and Mr Ten also says it. It is the most useless nationalism, and they do not misunderstand me because they know our position on nationalism. They feed the inequalities between the autonomous communities, among the Spanish, but Compromís does not even serve that, by the way, fortunately. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second year to come. It rains over wet and I think you should learn from the experience. We have to put forward praiseworthy, possible, logical amendments. Last year, the spokesman for the PSOE commented, amendments were submitted to the 92M programme in Section 31, amounting to EUR 46 billion, where only EUR 15 million of credit was available. That was like wanting to put 46,000 people in the Marx brothers' cabin. More than 6900 amendments have been tabled this year without being able to sit down and negotiate, and the citizen must know that. I'm closing up, President. My personal thanks go to all the members of my parliamentary group, in particular the Members of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Ramírez and Mr De la Torre. By the way, President who has had the temperance at many times to deal with the frustration of the left in the face of the impotence of not seeing his amendments carried out because of his passive attitude towards negotiation. It was intended to be transferred to the figure of the chairman of this Commission and it has reached personal disqualification, it has reached ignominy, it has reached the degradation of some spokespersons, to whom, by the way, for their human quality, I appreciate, and I think it is not their own. I did not want to fail to express my thanks, since this will be my last speech, to the members of the Bureau, to the spokespersons, to the lawyers, to all the staff of the House for the treatment received and the conviction that the approval of these budgets will improve the lives of many people. I'm done, President. In short, ladies and gentlemen, these state budgets are the most progressive of a decade, they are the cornerstone of changing the productive model because bipartisanism has used us for decades to high unemployment rates, but at the same time they drive some of the orange reforms that will improve the well-being of our citizens. That is why my group will vote in favour and vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u131	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hurtado, it takes a lot of arrests to go up here to the rostrum and, with pretended indignation, talk about the municipal management of Mr Fernández de Moya in the City Hall of Jaén. It is necessary to have many arrests, after his political group left the City of Jaén in bankruptcy, with 500 million euros of debt to suppliers, and with the cake of the tram, Your Honor, on top of the table. [[applause]] You need to have a lot of arrests. I will not enter the 'and you more' or the laudable, Your Honor, because with what your political group has behind me I would fall the face of shame, I don't know if you. [[Applauds]] I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in this debate on sections 32, 33 and 35, various budget sections, each with its objectives: funding complements to our communities and local authorities in section 32, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund in section 33 and the Contingency Fund in section 35, through which we make a good budgetary policy, protecting budget forecasts, different public policies from unforeseen events and expenditure. Complementing the funding of our autonomous communities to meet various investment needs or taking a step further in the urban transport subsidies of our municipalities means fulfilling an obligation of the Government to take care of the well-being of the Spaniards through transfers to our territorial authorities. Mrs Ramos asked what is causing the crisis. We came here after a very serious and severe economic crisis, and Mrs Ramos asked what is causing the crisis. The crisis, Mrs Ramos, was financial in its origin, an aggravated debt crisis - listen well: aggravated - by wrong left policies, because they faced a debt crisis with demand policies, which drowned us even more. He drowned our municipalities, our autonomous communities and the Spanish, Mrs Ramos. You asked which country model represent the overall budgets for 2018. Your Honor, these budgets draw a model of a modern country, a model of a country that stands up, a model of a country that progresses, a model of a country that meets all our diverse realities in order to continue to progress together. That is the country model represented by the People's Party and budgets for 2018. And of course, much remains to be done, but before drawing and painting into budgets all the investments in the world and not executing any, as happened to us with the statutory investments, it is necessary to make the budgets possible and necessary, as we do with this budget bill for 2018. As regards the reactivation of public investment policies through the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, Mr Hurtado ambushes the truth. The Inter-Territorial Compensation Fund is a percentage on real civilian investment in budgets. Yes, Your Honor, 30%. If investment falls, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund obviously falls. If you paint the General Budgets of the State as they painted in 2008, in 2009 and in 2010 all the investment of the world to then do nothing, the Interterritorial Compensation Fund comes out very high, but that does not fix anything to the territorial entities. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done, the Law 22/2001 of that fund remains to be updated, as part of the negotiation of the reform of the autonomous financing system, and we are now going to do so, in a multilateral negotiation process in which no one can refuse their responsibilities. The General Budgets of the State for 2018 are the possible budgets in the field of territorial financing: 4238 million euros more for the policies of the fundamental public services, the financing complements that are contained in these sections that we discuss and the various measures of flexibility for the autonomous and local budgets. We have relaxed the spending rule and now allow for the reinvestment of the surplus of the autonomous communities. They are possible budgets after having made a great effort, ladies and gentlemen; possible because it is the citizens who pool the resources to make public policies; possible because a determined and accompanied economic policy to achieve growth and return to employment generation has allowed us to preserve cohesion and reduce social inequality and exclusion in our country. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, of course much remains to be done. We must persevere in an economic policy which is not misleading, which knows that progress requires efforts, but which has borne fruit, because today the Spaniards live better than in 2011. We must renew the joint Spanish project with the aim of 20 million people in our country by 2020. We must continue to attach more resources to public policies in key services. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we must turn our backs on pessimism and, knowing that in the future we can make mistakes, approve this draft law on the General Budgets of the State for 2018, because they implement the public policies of a country that today claims itself and draw a new project of hope for the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u133	Thank you very much. We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the administrative, business and foundational public sector entities. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the defence of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u134	Thank you, President. We stand for our amendments in their own terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u135	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u136	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. In investments relating to public enterprises and public bodies it is best to check how the budgetary agreement between the People's Party, Citizens and the PNV can be made. In this alliance against people you, after the 2017 budgets, stumble twice upon the same stone. We are presented with out-of-time budgets because of the political incapacity of the People's Party, the re-centralizing voraciousness of Citizens and the lack of word of the PNV, which he said would not approve with the 155 in force. And not only do we have that, but those who intervene the accounts of the municipalities or the Generalitat are those who have the Secretary of State of Finance investigated for economic corruption. The gentlemen of the People's Party have fallen for the grapes of the State trading companies, corporate public entities, foundations and other public bodies shame your dictionary and above they present us with budgets that consolidate the cuts and despise our public services. [[The Vice-President, Navarro Garzón, took the Chair.]] To present the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States PodemosIn Comú PodemosIn Marea, I will focus, for lack of time, on those that refer to companies in the field of railway infrastructures, to the prison equipments and also to the harbour investment. The amendments relating to State Ports or SEPI refer in particular to the incorporation of acoustic and visual screens in the port of Marín, for example, or to the construction of a dry dam in Ferrol thanks to the great work of the compañeras of En Marea. In the second block are the amendments relating to Siepsa, the State Society of Prison Infrastructures and Equipment, which are often invisible amendments. We ask for the necessary budget allocations to allow the opening of mother units in the Canary Islands or Alicante, because the anomaly of Spain throughout Europe must be corrected in order to ensure that the sentence of women with children under the age of three years or pregnant women is fulfilled under the conditions that our own legislation requires, as well as to completely renew the facilities in order to avoid what is happening now, that oral communications between prisoners and minors are carried out in a conventional talk hall, preventing physical contact between mothers and their children and thus failing to comply with article 38.3 of the General Organic Prison Law. But the bulk of the fifty-six amendments that we have tabled refer to the companies ADIF, ADIF High Speed and Renfe, because we have with the governments of the People's Party a historical deficit accumulated in this type of investment. Although Mr Rivera this weekend, during the presentation of the new orange nationalist party, he told us that he sees no workers or entrepreneurs travelling through Spain, that he sees only Spaniards, precisely these budgets attack the workers. We ask for the improvement and maintenance of investments such as the line A CoruñaFerrol, MonforteLugo, the station of Ourense, BetanzosFerrol, CastejónBilbao, the extension of the C7 to Improvement of the Field, the connection with the business areas of Madrid, the extension of the C4 to Guadalix, Algete or Soto del Real; that is, the train used by the workers, those that Mr Rivera never sees and will therefore never defend. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, that when you encrypt the budgets for Catalonia we Catalans do not give you any credibility, not just because, for example, you have not denied that ADIF has only executed 50% of the budget for Catalonia in 2017, but because what credibility we can give to a government that pledged to raise 155 when there was government in Catalonia and today you continue to unlawfully control institutions that - listen to me well - are not yours or Mr Puigdemont's. Catalan institutions are Catalan and Catalan institutions. And I would have liked to ask Mr Rivera, who is not here - I don't know if he will be seeing Spanish around there - if where I see millions of people whose investment deficit in neighbourhoods steals their time every day, you only see Spanish; if I see people who, apart from their condition or their situation, see some of their most basic rights violated, you only see Spanish; if I really see where I see a ratio of 12 to 1, that is, of 36.5 versus 423 million users among the people who use high speed and the workers who use the neighbourhoods, you, gentlemen of Citizens, only see Spanish. Because, of course, if we all put our glasses on, we could forget about politics, because making politics and adopting budgets is also making decisions. But I think you already know that, because when you vote in favour of the budgets of the People's Party and not with the opposition of this Parliament here and the Spaniards give you the same, you are already more interested here than the wealth we have created among all comes only into the pockets of a few. If I am wrong, Citizens, refrain from voting on these budgets today, do not vote for or against them; altogether, why will you vote for or against them if, as you say, we are all Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena Arca. For the Socialist Group, Mr Galeano García has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend the Socialist Group's amendments to the public business, foundation and other autonomous bodies. I want to start by defending Amendment No 2397, which in this case is a cut but has broad social backing behind it, which is not very common. But if we talk about the Centralized Temporary Warehouse of the conchense municipality of Villar de Cañas, everything will seem much more evident to them. And this is a project that counts, ladies and gentlemen, with an absolute social rejection and, as you all know, with the strong opposition of the Group and the Socialist Party. With the amount of this amendment we have tabled the discharge in another amendment of one of the fundamental axes of the energy policy of the Socialist Parliamentary Group as it is a plan for the gradual and orderly dismantling of nuclear power plants that exceed forty years of operating life. To speak of amendments in this section, of course, is to speak of an entity such as ADIF, is to speak of social security, of railway infrastructure and of the importance of this entity as an instrument of the central administration to vertebrate our territory, to promote logistics as a fundamental pillar of our economy, to develop a much more efficient and environmentally sustainable transport, and is ultimately an instrument to echo the demands - and many of them historical - that develop so many territories and so many millions of citizens. In this regard, as Aragonese, I would like to express to you a project of unanimous political, social and business support, as is the reopening of the transboundary passage of the Canfranc. This would be the 1972 amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in reference to this project, the Rajoy government again fails to fulfil its promises of the multi-annual ones established only a year ago, in 2017, it again delays the investment. The Socialists therefore see themselves in the obligation to demand this promised amount and thus allow the Aragonese and, by extension, the whole of the Spanish citizens to see fulfilled a wish, the desire to have an open door towards Europe. The same treatment that I have commented on for the Canfranc project can be applied to another project, that of the improvement of the Sagunto-Teruel line. The 1962 amendment has, by the way, inspired Turkic citizens and Valencian and Castilian citizens to carry out a series of historical recreations of a ludic-revoicing character, where the only thing that seems to have no need to go back to another time, disguised or looking for clothes of that time, is the train line itself that makes this journey. What to say about the aspiration of citizens of a city like Almeria to finally see this city united with the Region of Murcia by AVE. Hence the 1956 and 1959 amendments of our group. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, since Rajoy has lived in Moncloa, the AVE of Almería has not advanced, despite having a budgeted money. But as on other occasions and with another series of games, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, parole, parole, parole. The AVE to extreme lands also suffers from this non-execution and, for example, the burial of the AVE to Murcia, with broad social support. On the other hand, we could talk about the serious railway isolation that the city of Granada has today, which already lasts more than 1100 days and that makes that phrase that everything is possible in Granada come true. These are a number of amendments which the Socialists consider absolutely and objectively necessary. I hope, speaking of what is possible in Granada, they will be possible someday. Socialists will fight to make it a fact and a real reality for this group of neighbours. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Galeano García. For the same parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Camacho Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the next 30 May will be eight months since the adoption of the Spanish Broadcasting Reform Act as regards the composition of the board of directors, eight months in which absolutely nothing has been done to change the direction of Spanish Broadcasting. In this case, I ask the People's Group, which is the one that supports the Government, to stop blocking that renewal and to proceed to what the law says, to strict compliance with the law, which is to change the board of directors and the presidency of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. I also ask the President of this House, of the Congress of Deputies, not to use the institution to support the People's Party and to continue with that blockade they are carrying out. The People's Party, with its majority in the Senate and with the help of the Congressional Bureau of Deputies, is blocking this renewal that we consider fundamental. That is why the Socialist Group has not tabled any amendments to these budgets. We understand that it is a corporation that is governed by a board of directors that what it is doing is practically squandering that corporation, that public body that should be at the service of all Spaniards. The Socialist Group is not going to support the increase in the budget so that it is further squandered than is currently being done. As for the other public service we need to talk about, the EFE Agency, we are glad that it has reached a compromise amendment and that it is included in the budgets. We would have liked to have at least been offered the possibility of having signed it. In any case, our group is going to support this compromise amendment, but we ask you that the compromise amendment that you are going to make in the joint text does not serve as an excuse not to carry forward this increase in the budget, in compliance with what is the economic service of general interest. That 12 million should go to the EFE Agency's budget this year and should serve to ensure that the EFE Agency has a somewhat more relaxed budget in the service of the general interest; that it does not serve as an excuse that the development regulation they need to carry out has not yet been approved so that in the end that 12 million in the EFE Agency's budget will not be increased. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Camacho Sánchez. At the time of the joint parliamentary group's position-setting, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The opinion of the General Budgets of the State 2018 bill contains several amendments of the Forum that are essential to carry out an infrastructure policy that ends the railway isolation of Asturias, arbitrarily decreed by the government of Mr Zapatero, and that homologues the Madrid-Asturias line, north-northwest corridor, with the other Spanish high-speed corridors. Once the various projects have been carried out and put into service, the objective will be to communicate by railway Madrid, capital of Spain, and Oviedo, capital of Asturias, in two hours and thirty minutes, which is a time of travel according to the high speed and which will make socially profitable the great investment made in the construction of the variants of Guadarrama and Pajares with its colossal and kilometres already finished tunnels. The three amendments incorporated into the Commission's opinion, which we are discussing, total EUR 12.3 million, ensure that the Valladolid-Leon and Leon-La Robla-Pola de Lena sections are packed at high speed with international width. They also set up the information study up to the three main cities of Asturias, Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés, maintaining the centrality of the stations affected by the circulation of the AVE and allowing, in addition, its combination with an adequate network of closenesses, in which it is impossible to move forward in priority towards the commissioning of the metrotrain tunnel and the construction in Gijón of an intermodal station worthy of the 21st century that replaces the entrepreneurial chamizo inaugurated in 2011 by the socialist government that has frightened the users of the railway. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the anti-European lobby working against Asturias defending dark particular interests in order to isolate us by rail and turn us into a ghetto of Renfe width, the Forum amendments to the section of public, administrative, business and foundational entities provide the railway manager ADIF with economic resources to advance and complete the incorporation of the different sections Valladolid-Palencia, León-Asturias, to the high-speed rail network and to the Atlantic Corridor in what is an unequivocal commitment to progress, to convergence with Europe and to the future, with the transport of passengers and goods through the railway that is open to competition and offers more and better alternatives for economic growth. Therefore, if the Ministry of Development and ADIF diligently implement these budgetary commitments for 2018, the railway line Madrid-Asturias will be in a position to be approved with the corridor of the Mediterranean and with the rest of Spain, which is essential if we want to advance in social and economic convergence without distinction, according to the territories and with the competitiveness and the creation of jobs as great objectives. It is enough to remember that the last competitiveness index of the European regions rated the railway infrastructure of Asturias with a score of 9.9 out of 100. Yes, you have heard it well, 9.9 points out of 100, behind the back of the European regions. Finally, Madam President, I would like to stress the importance of Spain having a general budget law because it is necessary as a whole and because, in the case of Asturias, once all the amendments tabled by the Forum have been incorporated, they are progressing in the solution of needs which, in the specific field of transport infrastructure, are key to our immediate future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u144	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Ten, nationalism is useless, according to you. They are useless if they are not those of Citizens and if they are not Spanish nationalisms, because I this weekend have heard a speech from the leader that looks more like José Antonio 'First of the leader' than from the leader himself, that speech that says they do not see red or blue or yellow, they only see oranges. Then nationalism is useful, but if it is Catalan nationalism, if it is Basque nationalism or if it is any other nationalism, it is useless. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Supremacism]] Mr Cantó, I listen to you attentively; all I ask is that you listen to me and, if you are not conformed, you come here, you say it and absolutely nothing happens, because democracy is that, is that we see each other in all colors, not that you only look orange, because the orange color will be very nice, but in the rainbow there are other colors that are also so and you must respect all the colors of the rainbow. They're not very used to it, but they'll have to get used to it. In any case, we have tabled amendments concerning companies through each of the sections and I just want to see a reality, which is the low budget execution of these companies in Catalonia, and I will give you some data in case you don't remember or want to refresh your memory. Aquamed, in Catalonia, state of execution in 2017, 18%; Ports of the State, in Catalonia, state of execution, 35%; ADIF, in Catalonia, state of execution, less than 50%. Budgets are therefore important, but implementation is also important. In any case, we'll be careful. There are only a few hours left to close transactions. Those of us who do not work and are equally useless also close some transactional that perhaps benefits many people of different colors in the whole Spanish state. Who knows! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bel, don't eat yet, give me two seconds. We are delighted with all the colors of the rainbow, I assure you, what happens is that certain nationalisms are supremacist - don't offend me, don't say I insult you later - or are mine or are enemies. This is what happens to Podemos many times with dialectics, there are people and caste, us and them, the ones above and the ones below. The truth is, Mr. Mena has reminded me a lot of a priest. He has made a fervent prayer, it almost seemed like a hoax asking us to abstain because they had tabled many amendments to this section, more than fifty. I would tell you that you have presented more than a thousand, what happens is that you have to sit down and negotiate. What you can't do next is come here begging like a priest. By the way, it's curious to see a communist who has something in common with the priests, who when they don't know what to do they come to the faith to see if someone does the work they haven't done. [[Applauds]] It is therefore very good to accuse ourselves always of being against people, against workers. I told Mr Lasarte yesterday - if you want I can repeat it today - we have obtained an increase in paternity leave, we have obtained a check for day care, a tax reduction for the middle and working class. Of course, as we are, we get these things and we are against the working class. I ask you to be serious about negotiating and, I will tell you more, there are amendments that I think are great, what happens is that they are based on income, on imaginary tax figures - because, as you know, they cannot be approved in these budgets - and they are also dubiously effective. And, of course, then the usual thing happens: since I am going to assume that 20 000, 30 000 or 40 000 million will be paid, I am going to make amendments so that these budgets... And if they don't approve, they go into deficit: we increase the debt and we continue as always. In any case, this section deals with autonomous bodies, the business sector. We are talking about fifty-eight autonomous bodies, with a total budget of 38,803 million; the most important items, 60.8 per cent, are for SEPE and in particular for active employment policies. They know that they will be responsible for the organisation, development and monitoring of active programmes and policy measures precisely to ensure the placement and control of the unemployed, as well as the management of unemployment benefits. The second of the items in importance is that of the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Office, for the CAP, which is responsible for managing to strictly implement the objectives of the common agricultural policy, applying 6977 million, which also has an increase in these budgets of 1.5%. The third major item is that of the traffic chiefship, which is endowed with 933 million, with an increase in these years of 26 million, of which 24 are destined to increase investments dedicated to improving road safety, that is to say, they are dedicated to reducing road accidents on our roads and roads, and therefore to reducing disaster. I would also like to stress the Extraordinary Road Investment Plan, so I have heard the Socialist Party spokesman, Mr Ramos, say earlier that he is going around Spain, on those roads which are very badly maintained. For there is an Extraordinary Road Investment Plan that is calculated at 5 billion and that will be implemented in three years, and what will be taken care of is to promote the maintenance, construction and conservation of our roads, which is true that they have been strongly affected by the time of crisis, by the hacks that occurred then, but of course this extraordinary plan will cover those deficiencies that have occurred in recent years. This is especially important because improving the state of our road network is also improving road safety, and therefore reducing disaster, reducing road deaths, reducing fuel consumption, something quite important that we will see in the coming years, and therefore also reducing emissions of CO2 and nitrogen monoxide. As this will certainly - I hope so - be my last intervention in these budgets, I would like to thank all the staff of the House: the lawyers, the stenographers, who have been working very hard in the Committee on Budgets the previous week, and of course each and every spokesman for the rest of the parties. Also, and especially, I would like to thank my colleague Vicente Ten and, of course, Paco, the chairman of this Commission, who has of course shown that he has outstanding cardinal virtues, especially that of prudence and temperance. I hope, if it is up to me again to work on budgets, to have you as chairman of that Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez Freire. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreno Bustos has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for the second consecutive year, no amendments have been tabled to the budget of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. We cannot therefore highlight this fact as an original fact or as a novel fact, but rather as symptomatic and rather suspicious reading. This blatant indifference or lewdness on the part of the opposition is about the deception in which they are installed, a fictitious concern for the future and the viability of Spanish Radiotelevision that really covers a rampant harassment strategy to get their control. Although well looked at this may make more sense than it seems for two things: the first is that the management of Spanish Radio Television is objectively very positive at this time. The accounts are balanced; the result of the last financial year is, as in 2016, a surplus; debt is considerably reduced and expenditure targets are rigorously met; the controls of the IGAE, the Court of Auditors, the CNMC and audits are unavoidably exceeded; none of its human resources are dispensed with; future lines, innovation and viability have also been drawn up that allow us to say, to understand ourselves, that no socialist government would be able to twist or spoil easily. The second and most obvious circumstance is that the opposition and some unions have a great plan for Spanish Radio Television, a magnificent plan that proclaims every quarter of an hour, a sumptuous plan, full of phrases made, that in the background does not stop wanting to move the chairs. Apparently more funding is claimed, more staff for Spanish Broadcasting, but this is a real pantomime because when it can be done it is not done or attempted. It is a very tenacious plan, it must be recognized, a repeated plan in time, but as poor and disloyal with the Spanish Radiotelevision itself as false. Everything is summed up in taking over the power of the corporation, there is no more horizon, interest or content. The flood of notes, communiqués, leaves and tweets does not find even a small gap to talk about the budgets of Spanish Radiotelevision. Think, who cares about the Spanish RadioTV budgets with the amount of nonsense that fits into a tweet? That is why Spanish Radio Television workers and all citizens must also know that Spanish Radio Television exists today and will continue to exist tomorrow thanks to the commitment to good management, not to folklore or the noise of the opposition or of some of its workers and the faithful allies of competition, which must not be forgotten. They must know that Spanish Radio Television has been very poorly managed in the past, without any protest on their part, and now it is much better and with more visions of strengthening and projecting with solvency, and that is that from its sectarianism they cannot bear it. And speaking of the accounts of Spanish Radiotelevision, what is opportune is to remember that its Law of Financing is questioned from all the instances, that it only generates uncertainties and financial instability, that the same ones that approved it and applauded it are now dressed in black, but not for that fact, that it would certainly deserve to adopt the most rigorous mourning, but to push, pressure and entangle, to make a party policy discrediting Spanish Radiotelevision. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bear in mind, therefore, what is evidence: that there is no alternative to the Spanish Broadcasting budgets, and that the only thing that some are trying to confuse public opinion when analysing their situation and discussing or questioning their viability. They claim to do so, but they fail to do so, because the magnitude of the plumer they are seen portrays them loudly. As for the compromise amendment on the EFE agency, we refer to what we discussed last week in the Commission, and we are pleased that it is moving forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno Bustos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I also have the floor, Mrs Borrego Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u150	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in setting my group's position on this part of the budget, I would first like to point out that in the Commission last week we approved this part of the budget by incorporating amendments from other groups, as a result of a process of negotiation and consensus, the consensus that I believe will be necessary in the coming years. It has been, is and will be very positive and is part of the DNA of our democracy. Consensus is not a transfer, but a joint effort in common interests. All of these entities we are talking about are working with dialogue, trying to count on everyone and giving participation to everyone to look for the best results and make them sustainable over time, seeking with their contribution to collaborate in the overall objectives of the budget. The first is to grow and create jobs in a sustainable way. Budget stability is necessary to achieve sustainability. ADIF, SEPI, Ports of the State, etc., collaborate to seek greater efficiency in management, better managing revenues, investing well and prioritizing investments to adapt them to budgetary possibilities and adapt them to demand. Making growth and employment sustainable is what the People's Party Government has done, and companies and public bodies have worked together on this path, giving priority to investments in the face of current spending, seeking a workload for companies, such as Navantia, and bringing them to profitability. That is why some of the amendments tabled cannot be supported, because another objective of the Government is social stability, to reform, to comply with our European commitments, but with dialogue and without great social tensions, and in this, too, companies and public bodies have collaborated and continue to do so. In fact, their budget reflects this: wages, social agreements, job maintenance, in the search not only for economic profitability, but also for social profitability. The Government of the People's Party also has a major objective in these budgets: to continue to modernise Spain, through a process of investing in infrastructure and improving the ability to compete. The budget of the companies and public entities participates in this objective with the investments, for example - which have been mentioned here - of ADIF and Renfe, which allow the vertebration of Spain and help to the business growth and the development of tourism. Either the investments in ports or the growth of the naval industry. We could continue to comment on the budgets of other entities, but I believe that these budgets go in the right direction and help the great objectives of Spain, because it does not make Spain who gives more rallies, but who works and commits to make it more prosperous, thus contributing to the improvement of the quality of life of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs Borrego Cortés. We remain in the real investment annex. Mr Candela Serna has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u152	Thank you, Madam President. I will tell Don Vicente Ten, and by extension to Citizens of the Valencian Community, what Compromís is not: it is not a refuge from Zaplanism, as you are. This is the difference. [[A Member of Parliament: Lie!]] There's the data. Let me begin my parliament on this point, an annex of real investments, by raising one of the problems we have as Valencians: the problem of the lack of economic support by the central government to develop our economy and thus reduce inequalities between autonomous communities. And it is that the Valencian problem, although not exclusively Valencian, the problem of underinvestment is the problem of territorial inequality in Spain, it is the problem of dual Spain, it is the problem of Spain of two speeds of which we are the main spokesmen. But there is more, as Mr Hurtado has said, such as Extremadura, Andalusia or Murcia. Ladies and gentlemen, the main element of erosion of political systems, the main element that breaks all political and social consensus, is unbearable inequality. And inequality is the main product of the policies of the People's Party and Citizens. And this inequality has multiple manifestations, multiple faces. There is social inequality, gender inequality and also - and we have to say - territorial inequalities. It is important to understand these territorial inequalities, this sort of political and economic periphery, this sort of Spanish noonday to understand what the historical denunciation that Compromís makes means, and which exemplifies in the motto We want a fair deal, Volem a fair deal. Fair treatment is that central government economic policy that recognizes territorial inequalities and strives to reduce them, not as it does now. And from here we derive the political meaning of all the amendments that we have tabled; amendments, on the other hand, shared by the entire Valencian people, trade unions, employers, political parties, universities, etc. In short, they are nothing but common-sense amendments that speak not of ours, but of how to distribute what is common to all and what is also ours. At this point, one could simply wonder how to obtain general State budgets that address the Valencian problem and thus the problem of dual Spain, and that address territorial inequalities. The solution passes - listen, lords of Citizens and the People's Party - by ending the political arbitrariness of you - of Citizens and the PP - and applying - listen - the law and the Constitution. Pick it up. Article 40 of the Constitution: The public authorities shall promote favourable conditions for a more equitable distribution of regional income. Article 7 of the Stability Act: The public spending policy must take account of the economic situation. Article 16(10) of the Organic Act on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities: Investments made directly by the State and the State public sector shall be based on the principle of solidarity. For that reason, Mr. Singing, Lords of Citizens, when you call us useless, what are you trying to say? Is asking for the law to be enforced useless? Is that what you are saying, you who go from the adalides of the Constitution and the laws? Do you know why we have this political vision of law enforcement? Because we come from a land, both of us, where we have suffered arbitrariness, illegality and corruption. The main difference between the present, the present and the future and the past in our community is that today the Valencian Generalitat complies with the law and the former were stealing, and today we have good proof of that. But we understand that when you call us useless it is not because of an economic issue, but because many of you lived much better when the People's Party ruled in the Valencian Community. That is the reality, so Commitment is useless to the interests of Citizens. For us that Camps told us that in part he loved us also an egg is the worst of possible contempt. [[Rumors]] You say you're going to get 12 million euros extra, like it's a gift. Do you know what the investment deficit is for this year? 340 million. If we add that amount to underfunding we are talking about EUR 25 billion a year; 12 out of 2500 is 0.48%. Even in the concept of utility you have the figures prove that they are rather useless. Mayor Joan Ribó of Valencia has already told you. The difference between you and us is basic and fundamental, there is an abyss, and it is that we do not sell our people for a dish of lentils. That's the main difference. Compromís wants to put on the table the problem of territorial inequality, the Valencian problem and the problem of dual Spain to which no one wants to pay attention. The Valencian problem is the problem of injustice, marginalization and marketing of PP and Citizens in these General State Budgets. The Valencian problem has been and is the centralist conception of the state which is very clearly exemplified when you say one thing in the Valencian Community and here you do another. If we are wrong, if Compromís is wrong, come out here and at the time of the vote, if you dare and leave them, vote with us on the amendments that will tackle the Valencian problem. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela Serna. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u154	Thank you, President. Mr Baldoví and Mr Candela have a bias that they share with the nationalists, the territorial bias that seems to them that the most important or even the only important of a region is that which is peculiar to him. That's all. For them, for example, the important thing of Valencia or a village of Valencia is a certain roundabout or station or something that affects them exclusively, but they lose sight of the general. In addition to the particular thing, the general thing must be taken into account. Or are Valencians not going to be affected by the increase in pensions? Or are Valencians not going to benefit from the tax reduction or aid of EUR 1000 that is going to be given for each child aged 0 to 3 years or from the increase in paternity permits or from their small and medium-sized enterprises being able to access the research applied? Well, of course they're going to benefit. We care about the specific, the closest, but also the general. Nationalist parties, I insist, tend to forget this. As I say, we have been concerned about all this and also about the specific issues that Mr Candela and Mr Baldoví despise. Those 12 million, which in the case of Valencia are included in the budgets, despise them. We, together with the general, are interested in the particular. That is why we have included a million for the project to connect Alicante-Murcia with El Altet Airport, because it seems important and interesting to us. That is why we have included the stretch of Castellón to Vinaroz, because it is one of the most peremptory things we now have in the community. So together with these we have already talked about the great amendments that we have included and that we have managed to get approved: the 10 million of the urban adjustment of the environment of the station of Sants, the 10 million for the integration of the railway in Madrid, especially in the area of Delicias; the 5 million of the railway connection Santa Justa-Airport of Seville. The 10 million of the Metropolitan Transport Authority of Valencia; the other day Mr Baldoví was angry because there were two, now because there are twelve, now he needs thirty, but it is that he forgets that, both the Generalitat and the city council, also have to put money. Sure! It's just that this isn't just about the central administration. And together with this a series of concrete and realistic actions. I'll give you some very briefly. In Castilla-La Mancha the Teruel-Cuenca section of the A-40; in Galicia the implementation of a pilot service of nearby La Coruña-Betanzos; the remodelling of the access of the AP-9 in Pontevedra; in the Canary Islands there are feasibility studies on different alternatives of mobility; in Cantabria there is the integral plan of the bay of Santander; in La Rioja the integration of the railway in Logroño. In Catalonia an informative study for the recovery of the line from Reus to Roda de Barà, which I am sure the spokesman of Fomento will like. In Andalusia we have the conditioning of the link of Tres Caminos in Cadiz, it is important because it is the access to Navantia and also the object of a collapse every summer; or the structural rehabilitation of the firm of the A-4 between Villafranca and Villa del Río. In Castile and León we have, for example, the closure of the circle of Leon; the bridge of Boecillo, which is currently divided into two by the N-601; or the structural rehabilitation of the A-66, the Autovia de la Plata. I insist that they are examples of concrete actions, because we are concerned with the general, the particular, the large and the small. And to finish something dedicated to Mr. Ferrán Bel. You spoke again of the act - what Mr Baldoví described earlier as a coven - that had Citizens. Look: Jürgen Habermas became famous among other things for the concept of civic patriotism, which he intended to counter this ethnicist, racist, linguistic or cultural nationalism that had devastated Germany and with it all of Europe. Jürgen Habermas' civic patriotism is based on an inclusive concept of citizenship, on sharing a common project based on Illustration values, on human rights and on creating an area of freedom and equality. This Sunday's meeting of Citizens was of civic patriotism or constitutional patriotism. When your president talks about genes and beasts he's talking about ethnic or racist nationalism. A few comments from which, by the way, I have not seen any of you scandalized. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u156	Thank you, President. One of the things that is fair to recognize the People's Party government is that they are conservative. Using lucky epithets of the president himself we can say that all of you are 'rajoyteguis'. After the quietness of this government during these years of crisis - that is, after having devalued wages in a brutal way and curtailed labour and social rights - its action has been to fail to do so. Cover yourself with a blanket so as not to want to see the consequences on the citizenship of the social fracture that these measures had produced, and hope that the invisible hand of the market, the external conditions and - that is - put a candle to the virgin so that the conflicts pushed the Europeans to do tourism in Spain, was their solution; and he did not want to solve the problem of mortgages until the mobilizations of the people - desperate in the face of so much injustice - and the judges made them turn something. In Catalonia more of the same: to abandon politics, to leave the resolution of the issue in the hands of the judges and thus to give wings to the most intransigent sectors of Catalan independence. Result: we have a machirulo government, which is not effective, and which feels at ease in the rhetoric of the conflict, and it seems that unfortunately also with 155. As a cycling enthusiast, Mr. President knows perfectly well that you can only stop cycling when the terrain is favorable, downhill, and if you do, it means losing pace and getting rid of the rest; that's what this government has done these years with infrastructure. This year on paper has given a pedal, but far from the ones needed to stay away from the European platoon. It is true that he remains conditioned by the spending ceiling, where he always has gregarious people helping them in the most difficult votes. The real investment section is equivalent to 1.6 per cent of the country's total expenditure, when the optimal is at least 2.2 per cent sustainable. New investments: defence covers a total of 46% of the annex, Fomento 19 billion and Mapama 764 million. The main focus of spending on railways, with an increase of 22 per cent, the majority budgeted twice a year, remains the AVE, the pampered child, with a planned investment of 27 billion euros aimed at completing the new connection projects already initiated. According to his accounts the conventional train receives 800 million, that account has traps. If we discount the trains that go to the lines of international width they remain at only 420 million compared to the 3000 of high speed, for each euro that we spend in proximity and half distance we continue to invest 70 in high speed, which is not precisely the best way to co-ordinate the territory. Simply looking at the 818 million real investment increase over 2017 could seem sufficient if it were not for the lost time to be recovered. And more so when we add the lack of execution, which by setting an example - here several have been put - in Aquamed throughout Spain has not reached 40%. Or territorially, for executions of 28% in Andalusia, 15% in Castile-La Mancha or 62% in rolling mills of Catalonia. In detail of the needs Spain has a huge shortage of infrastructure and equipment for citizens, especially in water, health, education, environment and telecommunications compared with the reference European countries: Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. And now we'll put a few notes. Water: suspense. Spain has invested 56% less in water infrastructure than these countries, despite being the country with the greatest water stress, 72%. Energy: suspended. Spain with just over 15% of energy consumption from renewable energy still has an important way to go until the 2020 target, which is 20%. Social: suspended. The current supply of hospital infrastructure in Spain is 25 per cent below that in France, Germany or the United Kingdom, and the investment made in education and justice over the past few years has been 40 and 50 per cent below those countries, respectively. Transport: suspension. The share of freight transport by rail in Spain, with just 4%, is very far from 28% of Germany. Environment: suspended. Spain is far behind in advanced waste treatment systems, with only 39% of urban waste and 89% of industrial waste treated, compared to 66 and 96% of the countries mentioned; in addition, Spain is the country with the greatest need for regeneration and forest maintenance. Surprise! Digital: remarkable; a remarkable. Spain is at the head in fiber optics, and we believe it is also in the Zaplana tariff. Urbanism: approved high. Spain is at the same time as the European countries in reference in urban mobility, and something will have to do with the efforts of the cities of change. Maintenance of infrastructure: suspended. Investment in infrastructure maintenance in Spain is 50% below comparable countries on roads and 15% on railways, despite the higher weight of the high-speed network. Spain should invest €38 billion a year on a sustained basis over the next ten years to alleviate the infrastructure and equipment deficit. This sustained investment is estimated to generate two hundred thousand jobs. What are we waiting for? I imagine they're waiting for United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to come to the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Alonso Cantorné. Mr Campos Arteseros has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u158	Thank you, Madam President. For the PSOE, real investments play an important role in the sustainable development of Spain. They guarantee the cohesion of Spain and the Spanish: social cohesion, economic cohesion and territorial cohesion. They improve the competitiveness of companies, being more attractive for others to invest and establish their production and distribution headquarters in Spain. They generate employment: 14 jobs per million euros invested and there is also a post-work job because of the competitiveness I spoke about earlier. They improve our natural environment by direct investments in environmental recovery and reduce emissions, allowing savings in this regard. And they make it possible to tackle climate change and improve the quality of life of citizens. In the midst of the economic crisis, should investment be made? The Socialist Party thinks so. Obviously, you cannot maintain the same pace of investment as at a time of growth, but in itself it is an anticyclical measure - that is not said by the PSOE, it is in any book you want to read - and it generates employment and maintains the construction and related sector. Furthermore, if competitiveness is to be strengthened when one is growing, when one is in crisis the necessary changes and investments must be made to get out of the crisis strengthened and you have not done so. They make a partisan use of the People's Party and the Government of Investments. There is no overall or strategic planning, they do not include budget lines, continuously extending works that could be completed with a small investment, and they do not implement the budget - it has already been commented here -. In years of drought, a drought that was not remembered in Spain, new water-related works and 42% investment in maintenance have been reduced by 90% and only 40% have been implemented. They do not advance in environmental studies, in projects, and then the minister comes and makes a mockery of the socialist mayors because we complain that there are no budgetary appropriations. He said that since studies were not available, budgetary appropriations could not be made. Already, already, but it is that in the budget for 2018 there are not the items to do the studies and the projects, with which they will provoke in areas like the Valencian Community and in others of Spain that, if there is a decrease of investment, is greater because those studies and projects are not prepared to be reflected in the budgets. New work. Public bodies, EUR 11 million. Companies, 224 million euros. What are your anticyclical measures? They've been commented on in the different sections we've been looking at. Its measures are cheap labour, lowering social security contributions and lowering taxes. They make a partisan use of the infrastructures and announcements that they make of them and also adjust it to the electoral map, where they see the election result of the People's Party in jeopardy. Don't you want to listen to us? It's okay. Listen to Seopan, who in his 2017 evaluation report said with regard to works related to the integrated water cycle that at the current rate of recruitment it will take 39 years to reach the 2021 target. In the environment, it will take 136 years to meet the investment targets by 2020. In public equipment, doubling the current bidding rate, it would still take us four years to reduce the deficit in previous years. And in mobility and accessibility, it will take 42 years to make the investments identified as priorities. The Government does not believe in the territorial or social cohesion of Spain. As I said to you in the Commission, you believe that by raising big flags and with great hymns - it seems that others want to point to this - you are already cohesive Spain, but that is for everyone and what is missing is to really cohesion Spain and it is done in a territorial and social way. You don't talk to autonomous communities; autonomous communities that have mobility skills. We must bring together the actions of the Government of Spain and those of the autonomous communities and you do not do so. Agreements and protocols with the Autonomous Communities have expired. Therefore, neither listen nor dialogue, nor budget, nor implement, nor do real investments have a strategic character for you. They accuse the PSOE of maintaining investments in the midst of a crisis and generating an insurmountable debt. Next comes the Minister of Development to this House and says: Renfe has benefits. You haven't made a single investment in Renfe. Has anyone wondered why Renfe and AENA have benefits? Why? Because the investments that had to be made were made and you, without any, are reaping the fruit of those investments. This demonstrates what the Socialist Party says that for every euro spent on real investment, it recovers in competitiveness, effectiveness and, in this case, revenue and good functioning of public enterprises such as AENA and Renfe. He said they'd brag. The Minister of Agriculture presumes: The worst drought in Spain and there have been no water cuts. Why? You haven't invested anything in water. WATER programme. All the major investments that have made it possible not to close the tap in the Region of Murcia, in the Valencian Community and in other parts of Spain are actions of the government of the PSOE. Therefore, you presume to do things that come from previous investments. If we're in debt, we're also in income and profits from this kind of thing. I'll give you another example. In the field of tourism, they assume that we have attracted foreign tourists. Yes, ma'am. But what has allowed us to absorb all these millions of tourists? Works at airports. I'll give you an example. At Alicante airport we have increased from eight million to thirteen million passengers. Investment by the People's Party Government in seven years: zero euros. How is that possible? Because EUR 600 million was invested between 2008 and 2011. Therefore, invest, plan, make a global and strategic planning - I'm finishing -, presuppose what is necessary, execute and do not do anything like those you are doing in the corridor or in the tunnel of Atocha. Saving EUR 4 means that large investments do not have the corresponding effect on the quality of life, social cohesion and territorial cohesion that Spain needs. Therefore, rule. We support the Socialist Group's amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Campos Arteseros. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't talk. [[Rumors]] Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. After listening to the socialist spokesman saying that the investment generates employment and that it was all done when the People's Party came to the government, one wonders why on that day, on July 7, 2010, the minister don José Blanco stopped a hundred – a hundred! – public works in one morning. Official State Gazette. One hundred public works paralyzed. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] On a single morning of work, one hundred public works paralyzed: highways, roads, scrubbers, high speed...And one wonders, did not then create employment infrastructure? Was it all done? Why did they paralyze a hundred public works? Wouldn't it be because they had broken the country minutes, days or years before? He asks and says - and I confess it, in the end I have had to go and look for the page that summarizes what we are discussing, that it is the General Budgets of the State consolidated - that where investments fall the most is in the Valencian Community, where it turns out that they grow by 27%. I have taken the text, which reflects nine budget chapters, and the one that moves the most, the one that grows the most of all is that of investment, almost 15%, 14.8%. There are items that actually fall, two, including unemployment benefits, because the ministry that runs Fatima Báñez is going to re-create another five hundred thousand jobs, and six years of growth are already going on. [[Applauds]] And if the left does not stop us in this Parliament, by 2020 there will be four million new jobs, very similar to the five million new jobs we create after the reforms with the first government. And one wonders, if investments go up, if unemployment benefits actually go down, because 2.5 million new contributors have been created, and interest payments go down, because the risk premium was 690 and now it's only 90, what are you complaining about? And I would like to remind you that in this series of chapters the number of staff is growing little and that we must pay tribute - and the People's Parliamentary Group wants to do so - to the almost three million public employees and Spanish officials, who have done more than ever before. They are able to activate budgets with 15% more investment. That is why this budget is approved with its vote against and with an agreement with all the public service unions to raise public employees in agreement in three years 8.8% their payroll. They deserve it, they deserve to get their payroll up because they work more than ever, that payroll than those who ruled before we dropped them by 5%. [[Applauds]] Today the public employees of Spain, with this government, have the salary they already deserve; they, the civil guards and the national police, who with an additional 600 million euros will live the most intense growth on their payroll; it is deserved, it is very justified, and it is to the same to which you have lowered the wages by 5%. [[Applauds]] That is why the People's Parliamentary Group defends that today the public administration has become an engine and not a ballast for job creation, it is a real engine. Today public morale no longer closes a hundred thousand companies, as you closed for public morale. Do you remember payment plans to suppliers? Today the Spanish administrations - municipalities, parliaments, autonomous communities and the state - pay three times as fast as the private companies; today the public sector is driving and not stopping our growth; today, moreover, there are no more governments that paralyze 100 works, but there are governments that invest 9 billion euros in work. Today I have heard here about promotion and public works. It is very nice to do public works today and to be paid for tomorrow. That is why it is extremely meriting that coming to the government in 2011 and finding 37 billion euros of invoices - I repeat, 37 billion euros - in the drawers of the government's public enterprises, today those 37 billion euros of unpaid invoices are 0 euros. And we have done so, and also with his opposition, with his resistance. [[Applauds]] I do not want to expand, but these budgets not only grow in investment but make an unprecedented social bet. You cannot explain how it is possible that the same nation where you fired 3.5 employees today has not only maintained and saved the public pension system, which has been called into question with a 40% fall in the pension of your retirees in countries where the left governs, such as Greece, but that it announces increases of 8.8% for groups such as those of widows who only have that pension and which will be 15% next year, increases of 3% for minimum and non-contributory pensions or a general of 1.6. They don't explain it to you. Well, it's pretty simple. In 2011, for every new retiree you destroy seven jobs and, today, in 2018, for every new retiree we create six jobs. [[Applauds]] Only those who create jobs raise pensions and create jobs, of course, the People's Party, in isolation and, on many occasions, with its resistance. We raise public salaries and pensions because our retirees and our public employees deserve it, they deserve not to be frozen as in 2010 and not to be watching their payroll fall by 5%. They also deserve this social bet those who will see how their paternity permit grows, from four to five weeks, how parents see 1000 euros more in their current account or in the child care check, or how there is a beneficial tax treatment for families with disabled people and large families. If to all that, if to this unprecedented social bet, if to this increase - I conclude, Madam President - in investments we add that the People's Party again lowers taxes, to you every day we have made it more difficult to oppose this text that will contribute to the creation of five hundred thousand new jobs in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u161	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with section 25, Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Vice-President and Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u162	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. I appear before the plenary of this House to present and report on the budget of the Ministry of Presidency and for the Territorial Administrations together with their affiliated agencies. Let me begin with a general reflection on the importance of approving these accounts. Section 25, Presidency and for Territorial Administrations As you all know, the General Budgets of the State are probably the most important economic and social law presented by a government throughout the year. They represent the fulfilment of the Government's public priorities and define what should be the major State policies. These budgets not only maintain budgetary stability and fulfil our commitments to Europe, but, in particular, continue to drive growth. They are accounts focused on the fact that the recovery that the Spaniards have achieved working all these years also reaches everyone, especially those who made greater efforts throughout the crisis. These are budgets that allow us to promote actions that six or seven years ago we would consider unthinkable in this House, because we must not forget how we were six years ago and how we are now. We were on the verge of rescue, five years in a row of negative growth - it is still a euphemism for the harshness of the situation -, with a deficit of 11% - was in the 9 when we began to draw up the budgets of the year 2011 -, with an unemployment close to 27% and with a destruction of 3.7 million jobs. Well, today we are debating the General State Budgets for 2018, a year in which we have recovered the pre-crisis income level and two thirds of the employment destroyed. Today Spain grows in a strong and balanced way almost for the fifth consecutive year. How did this happen? Budget reform, reform, with an economic and social policy that has fostered stability, something essential in the times ahead, and it is not necessary to look too far to keep in mind. Today, governance management is one of the challenges faced by the most consolidated democracies; and I believe that the adoption of these General State Budgets itself is an example of this. These budgets project good prospects for growth. Therefore, good numbers for the stability of the country, to mark its agenda and to mark the political agenda that citizens need. From the Government we have called for dialogue and responsibility to approve these accounts, to ensure that stability and, therefore, that growth and employment. Because these accounts will be crucial for Spain to continue to create jobs at historical rates and move towards what has to be a country's main goal, achieving 20 million jobs by 2020. Thanks to the dialogue and the agreements shared with trade union organizations that have wanted to sit down and negotiate - and we must thank everyone for the work - we will adopt measures that benefit all citizens. Firstly, to public employees, with an increase in their salaries and salaries resulting from an important agreement reached this same year with the public service unions. For the first time in history, the evolution of the salary of public employees will have a variable part that will depend on the smooth running of the economy and on the fulfilment of our objectives, to compensate for the good doing and good service that our public employees provide, so that they will now be, as at other times they were part of the efforts we made to get out of the crisis, partakers of that growth and return those efforts to them. Secondly, these budgets provide for improvements for pensioners, with increases initially designed to favour lower pensions and which have been extended to all of our pensioners through dialogue and agreement with the rest of the groups. Tax rebates are included for lower incomes, with an impact of EUR 2 billion. Income tax will no longer be paid for those who earn between EUR 12 000 and EUR 14 000; and income will be paid less between EUR 14 000 and EUR 18 000. The draft of these budgets also envisages an increase in autonomous funding, which will allow the autonomous communities, and this is important for the Ministry of Territorial Administration, to receive the largest volume of income in their entire history, 105,020 million euros, to finance services that they provide and that are health, education and social protection; the column, together with pensions, of the welfare state. But these budgets also make it possible to focus on future policies that are on the government's agenda and on the country agenda; policies to address the major global challenges ahead: the digital and technological challenge, the environmental challenge and the demographic challenge and their impact on the sustainability of our welfare state. I'll talk about him later. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary burden of this ministry - as you know - is to reduce; humble, we are the ministry with the lowest budget allocation, 1.4% of the expenditure attributed to the ministerial departments, including the transfer to the agencies that depend on this portfolio. However, it has an important role to play in the field of horizontal and territorial coordination, and the projects we can carry out can move forward with this objective of modernisation. The budget of our ministry, by removing agencies, amounts to EUR 441.35 million; I insist on the figure because then I will talk about the amount of the amendments that you have tabled. I would already like to be able to manage everything you want to include via amendments in this budget. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a budget of EUR 441.35 million and you have tabled amendments that exceed EUR 1 billion. I do not say that I would not like to manage all that, I would do great things, but I have to submit to budgetary discipline. However, this budget receives an increase over last year, 13.2 million euros, we grew by 3.1. What have we dedicated to him? To investments, which for the first time in five years grow in the budget of our ministry. Through these investments, we will seek to implement modernization projects that will improve management, service to the citizen, transparency and accountability. These projects include the Plan for Modernization of the Peripheral Administration, which makes it possible to substantially improve the services that the General Administration of the State provides to the citizen throughout the national territory and thus to ensure their equality. The largest increase in these investments, close to 25.4 per cent, occurs within this peripheral administration programme. By 2022, the final date of the implementation of the project, we plan to achieve a much closer, more agile, more accessible administration, using mainly new technologies and ensuring, in addition, the adequate presence of the State throughout the national territory. For this, we assume an investment in this period of 31.5 million, of which 26 are assumed by this ministry. The rest is for the Ministry of Development, which is collaborating with us in the financing of works for the rehabilitation of singular spaces, and I will refer to two. One of them is the Palacio de Argentera, headquarters of the Government Delegation in Catalonia, which has recently begun its works, and another, with a cost of 11 million euros, is the integral rehabilitation of the Palace of the Temple, headquarters of the Government Delegation in Valencia, which will be inaugurated throughout this year. Up to now, the modernisation plan has also had a major investment in the improvement of resources, with the purchase of computer equipment. The implementation of electronic processing, tools, data programs and the modernization of the digital image, websites and social networks are some of the actions that we want to start immediately. And as it is always common to criticize what is wrong and to recognize little what is right, I want to acknowledge here all the public employees who are stationed in the state's peripheral administration, because they provide citizens with a good service. The latest survey of the functioning of the information and care offices of the Government delegations shows that the Spanish give them an average score of 4.2 compared to the 5 of the maximum. You'll have to put it in value. Precisely in this task of attention and collaboration of the Peripheral Administration, it highlights the work of fostering and developing cooperation among all administrations. We defend the autonomous State designed in our Constitution and developed in all these years, a model that has made us one of the most decentralized States in the world, but this obliges us to take measures among all of us of internal coherence and of proper coordination and loyalty so that the degree of cohesion, effectiveness and efficiency that we lend to citizens is a shared objective. The ministry is engaged in intense dialogue and cooperation with the autonomous communities, which is often tarnished because, when there is no noise, it seems that it does not matter, but the relationship with the autonomous communities in general is of great collaboration. Since 2012, the Government has signed a total of 3548 agreements with autonomous administrations, which have resulted in State funding of €6893 million. This is the budget of the State which is transferred to the autonomous communities, through agreements, to carry out their own powers. During these years, 2017 has been the year in which the most funding has moved through agreements, 28 billion euros, surpassing the 600 agreements in a single year. We therefore carry out an important task: to intensify dialogue and agreement. Most of this funding is allocated with budgets from different ministries, but also with allocations from the Ministry of the Presidency that are in the budgets you see voting for. This is the case of the FITE, the Investment Fund in Teruel, for which 30 million euros are allocated and whose investment for 2018 we will sign next week with the Government of Aragon in Javalambre. Our objectives in the area of territorial administration also lead us to develop close collaboration with the local administration, the one closest to the citizen. Among other functions, the ministry manages important European funds for the current multi-annual period, 2014-2020. I mean, we are a modest ministry, but - if I may say so - we are also looking for life in Europe so that we can help local corporations. An example of this is how to make international and European challenges transcend to reach smaller populations. Through the Feder funds, calls for €1362 million have been launched for Integrated Sustainable Urban Development Strategies, the so-called Edusi. Our ministry is responsible for managing half of these funds, EUR 690 million, for municipalities with less than 100 000 inhabitants and never for provincial capitals. On the other hand, the department also manages two major programmes in collaboration with Employment: the Operational Youth Employment Programme and the Operational Employment, Training and Education Programme, which is funded from the European Social Fund, $330 million, for actions in municipalities of more than 20 000 inhabitants and provincial parliaments, to assist the smaller ones. I say this for when we wonder what the provincial parliaments are for; for this reason. Support the reduction of youth unemployment rates by improving skills and promoting recruitment and self-employment for children under the age of 30 and improving the socio-occupational integration of people at risk of social exclusion. Through this path we are working for a balanced development of the country and of the population, a problem that we have wanted to make a priority. Therefore, what we are going to do is to use this avenue of collaboration also to finance activities that will enable young people to stay in areas suffering from depopulation, betting on employability and entrepreneurship, with a new line of aid that we will immediately convene and to which 100 million euros will be allocated. As I said at the beginning of my speech, one of the challenges we face as a country that affects the sustainability of the welfare state is the demographic challenge. Following the commitment made by all the autonomous presidents to the President of the Government at the conference of the same name and with the creation of a commissioner in the face of this challenge, it has been incorporated as a cross-cutting policy in all public policies. The demographic challenge is for the first time a priority on the agenda of the Government of Spain, and this draft General State Budgets has already allowed us to incorporate major measures in those areas that we consider to be priorities. We can say that these budgets are the first general State budgets aimed at alleviating the effects of demographics. Firstly, because in the area of active ageing and the economy of ageing, the new State Housing Plan 2018-2021 stands out, with the promotion of rented housing for the elderly and with disabilities, with common facilities and services adapted to their needs, and with help for the purchase of housing for young people who wish to stay in rural areas. It's a shame we're talking more about other types of housing now, but, well, these are also important. In order to support families and thus stimulate birth, important fiscal measures have also been adopted in these budgets. I highlight the new childcare check of EUR 1000 per year, the increase in the deduction per large family and the deductions for spouses with different capacities. In the area of young people, we have to work to find opportunities in rural and sparsely populated areas. This includes specific measures to improve employment and training opportunities amounting to EUR 3300 million. The new Youth Guarantee Training Bonus, of 430 euros per month for eighteen months, 500 million euros. And the additional incentives for entrepreneurship in sparsely populated areas; in particular, the flat rate, the reduced contribution for new entrepreneurs, for new self-employed people to last twice as long, two years, in the small municipalities of Spain. We offer incentives and also tools; for example, assuming the commitment to ensure high-speed Internet access in 100 percent of the population in Spain, a commitment that is already beginning to be paid with these budgets: EUR 150 million. All these measures are budgetary advances of the National Strategy against the demographic challenge that will be presented in the coming days, because coordination between administrations is an essential objective to advance in the consolidation of our welfare state. Another of our tasks is to be accountable to the citizen and also to work with this House. Despite the low budgetary weight of Relations with the Courts in the already scarce budget of the ministry, it certainly has a great political relevance, and I have always taken advantage of this appearance, although it has no budgetary significance, to give you the detailed minutes of how you ask and how we answer. Over 70 000 questions and requests for reports have been answered in the twenty-two months of the legislature. From January to May of this year alone, the questions put in both Houses amount to almost 20 000, of which virtually all have been answered, and in what we have been in the legislature there have also been almost 40 000 requests for data, reports or documents. This figure is remarkable if we compare it with the total of 2,400 applications submitted in addition to the three previous full legislatures. Therefore, we work the same people but we have to multiply much more. He was talking about accountability to the citizen and maximum transparency. New technologies and improved information mechanisms are essential for this. The public sector cannot stay behind in these challenges. In order to meet these needs, we allocate EUR 1 million in this budget to the creation, among other investment projects, of a single portal for all government action, in order to avoid also the pilgrimage of citizens between websites to obtain information, in a way similar to that being done in other European States. In order also to ensure transparency and in particular to improve legislative activity - I say this because this House is also a participant in that activity - we have created the Office for Coordination and Regulatory Quality within our ministry. Spain has been making a greater effort in this area for a few years in accordance with the principles of better regulation, better regulation, and smart regulation. The creation of this office allows further progress in this line. This programme introduces an increase in the development of systems for this activity, for the request and evacuation of reports and consultations, and also for obtaining quality data in relation to the policy development process. Fundamental in the task of doing, but above all of knowing, better laws - I am already going to detail to them the budget of the affiliated agencies - is the State Agency of the Official Gazette of the State. The State Official Gazette is a very well managed agency, and I want to recognize it to its managers and its workers. It is a body that not only provides self-financing, but also provides revenue to the State. This year it will enter the public coffers 40 million euros. It enters 72, consumes 31 million in its management and enters the Public Treasury 40. The only increase this year is going to be in staff costs to finance the agreed pay increases. The agency continues to be very pioneering throughout Europe in the use of new technologies, and has progressively enriched its dissemination services with the warnings of the Bulletin to the Charter, the consolidated legislation, the electronic codes, the Single Edictal Board, the integrated consultation of legislation and jurisprudence in coordination with the General Council of the Judiciary... Among the projects that we have this year - this is administrative cooperation - is that the databases of the State and the autonomous communities are related and can be consulted on the web and even interconnect the Dictionary of the legal Spanish of the Royal Academy with the databases of the State Agency. I'll just give you one piece of information. In 2017, the number of accesses to the agency's databases was over 379 million. The BOE website, which maintains a constant improvement in its accessibility, is one of the most consulted of the Administration, the main route of citizen interrelationship and provision of agency services, and has the highest standards of cybersecurity. In fact, it's a rather quoted website by those who like hacking, but rarely get it. The Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies will have a budget of €4 million in these budgets, slightly more than 2%, than last year. This body, which is an academic institution of reference and meeting point in the study and defense of the constitutional state, assumes a special commitment and leadership in these years in which we celebrate the 40th anniversary of our Constitution in a program coordinated by this House. Among its main tasks is an important editorial project planned for the last quarter: constitutional Spain, 40 years. Trajectories and perspectives, which is a work in which more than three hundred authors will participate, including about fifty members of the real academies and one hundred and fifty professors. The CIS keeps its budget virtually constant, 8 million euros, as well as a very important information provider dynamic for everything related to the dynamics and logic of open data. In 2017 a total of thirty-seven studies, surveys and surveys were carried out and this year there will be two more, thirty-nine. In the CIS we are immersed in a process of total digitization of its activity and, more importantly, in an implementation of the big data section and Internet surveys. All this in addition to how important that section is within the house's database. With regard to National Heritage, the budget provides for an increase of 7.8% over the previous year, EUR 117 million. Why? Because we are launching the last phase of the Royal Collections Museum and we need more staff and investment funding. The project, which started in 1998, is well advanced and is expected to open its doors to the public by 2020. I'm going to explain to you the budget of the National Intelligence Centre, on which I'm going to stop something else. For the current financial year, and in order to enable the Centre to carry out the tasks entrusted to it, the draft budget for 2018 envisages providing it with an amount of EUR 281 million. It maintains a staff of close to 3,500 people deployed around the world and operates with standards of effectiveness highly appreciated by the international community. The budget proposed for this year represents an increase of close to EUR 21 million, an increase of 8%. The CNI was also not outside the efforts of the fiscal years between 2008 and subsequent years. However, over the past four years - and in line with the gradual recovery of the economy - the National Intelligence Centre has been gradually increasing its budgets, except for the reserved expenditure item, which has remained unchanged since 2013 and which, as you know, is being explained to your ladies and gentlemen in the Commission for this purpose. The increase in this growth path is mainly due to technological renewal. Of the 21 million increases we propose, more than 14 are dedicated to investment projects and the rest to the incorporation and adaptation of staff to technological challenges. The National Intelligence Centre is placing special emphasis on the fight against jihadi terrorism and cyberattacks, noting that in times of crisis the new hybrid threats have affected Spain in order to try to weaken its cohesion and stability. On the other hand, third-party interference is experiencing a growing intensity throughout the European Union and so far unknown, precisely because of the possibilities offered by new technologies. This requires the intelligence service to be ahead, or at least at the level, of those who attack us. Meeting the technological challenge and digital transformation is ultimately a matter of financial availability to make sustained efforts over time. But in addition, investment in technology must be coordinated with the incorporation of the necessary staff to carry it out. The CNI not only needs to increase its workforce quantitatively but, more importantly, to make the qualitative leap that its transformation process implies. This makes it necessary to have staff with new talents and skills, especially in critical areas: computers, engineers, mathematicians, translators and interpreters. It's what you have to live in the age of algorithms. Last year I announced the existence of a multiannual plan to increase the number of members of the centre by 600 people. This plan has allowed new agents to enter the last two exercises and will continue in the coming years. In global terms, the objectives fall within the National Security Strategy 2017 that you know and that gives a comprehensive, effective and coordinated response and a unity of action to the State. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end by referring to the amendments tabled to section 25. I thank all the groups for the amendments tabled - a total of thirty-one amendments - which, as I said at the beginning of my speech, amount to more than EUR 1 billion. I wouldn't know where to get them; remember we have 441. They will understand that acceptance in its entirety would be, no more or less, to go beyond doubling the ministry's budget. However, there is one issue on which I want to stop because I believe you have been right, you have come to a compromise amendment which, of course, even if it is not necessary at this point, I want you to know that you have the acquiescence and the will to push it forward by this ministry. It refers to the increase in the provision for the EFE Agency's information coverage contract from 12 million to 51 million. We must make an effort and we will do so to provide this body with the necessary resources, which is an engine of Spanish information at a global level and which, as you know, has a new consideration as a service of general economic interest. I'm done. These budgets, as I said at the beginning of my speech, clearly support economic growth and job creation, distribute the benefits of recovery among society, improve the incomes of more than 13 million pensioners, public employees and wage earners and strengthen the provision of basic services with 4248 million more funding that the autonomous communities will receive, so the work of our ministry will be very important. These are budgets in which social expenditure reaches 56 per cent. These are budgets that, if they go forward, will have been for a very important effort of dialogue and understanding among many political groups. All of you, in general, whatever the meaning of your vote, must be thanked for the work you have done and for the cooperation with the Courts - it is up to me to do so - and those who decide to support them will certainly contribute to the sustainable, balanced and distributive growth of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde spoke in defence of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u164	Pick it up on. Thank you, Madam President. While supporting the 2017 budgets meant supporting the implementation of Article 155 in Catalonia, doing the same with those of 2018 means, in our opinion, deepening it, giving continuity and strengthening the interventionist policy of the Government of Mariano Rajoy. We do not just say this because the preferred partner of the Government, Citizens, is asking for an application in the last few days, I do not know how to define it, I will say more blunt - because I do not use another qualification - of this article 155, proposing to extend it to TV3 and to the Mossos or because PP, PSOE and Citizens - the great coalition in favor of the unity of Spain - are pointing to its maintenance, and they have decided this in the last few hours, although I also say so. Strengthening and supporting the PP's government and its re-centralizing policy is to back up a policy that has been developing since Mariano Rajoy's arrival and that has had his clearest expression in the application of article 155, but that is not an exception. That is why we say that 155 has come to stay, in the form of a continuous and constant threat both to Catalonia and to Euskal Herria in an attempt to silence the majority wishes of citizens to own their future. They do so on the basis of infusing fear of losing the scarce decision-making capacities that the current framework, which is already completely exhausted, allows us today. Far from recognizing the right to decide to assist us, the Government intends to reverse the situation and even - I have already said this once in this Chamber and I will repeat it today - to return to the first, much more restrictive, design of the transition. In recent years, they have not only refused to develop the Statute or the Improvement in the case of the Basque and Nafarroa Autonomous Community, denying an equal relationship with the governments, but also preventing the development of the powers already transferred through recourse to the Constitutional Court, stealing what we have to do in order to be able in the future to have something to market in exchange for support. The Constitutional Court acts on the Government's dictate; it even changes its working rhythms at the convenience of the Executive, deciding in record time questions that if they were raised against the Government would spread over time. That is why in these budgets, where there was no money for pensions in the first instance, there was no money to raise the salaries of the judges of the Constitutional Court by 12 per cent or 13 per cent of the salaries of their president. The State and its structures are well fattened for the defence of Spain's unity in the face of the democratic demand for the right to decide. And if we are to combat this demand, we must act against and above the current institutional framework and its division of powers, because they are prepared to do so. The question is another: if those who say they are defending the opposite of what the Government is doing, they will continue to allow it with their support or, on the contrary, they will understand the importance of the opportunity offered by the debate on budgets to assert our limited decision-making capacity and act as a country code in favour of the search for higher levels of sovereignty, the only guarantee to maintain the little that the current framework respects us, the only way to achieve progress as a people in all areas, in addition to the right to decide in peace and normalization - we will have the opportunity to talk about it later, when we enter the Ministry of the Interior - also in the social sphere. The denunciation of this situation is constant on the part of the Basque institutions, in fact the two parliaments have positioned themselves openly and mostly against these budgets, because it is well known what they translate into: in interferences, in erroneous policies, in intervention, imposing from Madrid what we can do and how we can do it at all levels of the administration, limiting municipal autonomy to the point of preventing responding to social needs to institutions that have demonstrated responsibility and good doing with a much healthier economic situation than that of the Government of the State and, therefore, prepared to assume the necessary greater social investment. In view of this action, which is very visible or more visible at times, more disguised in most of the times, but lethal to our interests as a nation, we understand that the only alternative we have left is to assert ourselves and that we cannot do so by supporting the general budgets of the People's Party and not in particular these presidential budgets. We are told that the law must be above democracy - I have been saying here for a long time that it is rather the opposite - but even in the last few days they are willing to let go of the law because they do not like the councillors elected in Catalonia and because they also want to decide who has to be a councillor even though they have all their civil and political rights intact. Therefore, those who support it should think about what they are really supporting beyond approving accounts, because budgets are not just an economic document, they are the Government's main instrument of political action, and I think there are plenty of reasons not to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u165	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u166	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. From the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, we have tabled an amendment to reimburse the budget expenditure to the Presidency in section 25 for the following reasons. One, because it seems to us that spending 280 million euros on intelligence services that end up chasing ballot boxes and spying on those who put them is an unnecessary millionaire, it is a real barbarity. Two, because just like this country, Spain, does not need so much micro or so much spy or so much patriotic, media and police brigade subsidized against a referendum and it does need better means to fight against real threats, as unfortunately was demonstrated last August 17 in Barcelona. Three, because in Republican Esquerra we believe that the threat to national security is not that it is voted, it is not that it is manifested, it is not that it is tweeted and it is not that it is shaved, but that what threatens national security is that you beat those who vote, tweet or shave things that they do not like and that on top of their televisions bleach it. Four, because this millionaire is spent on safeguarding the sovereignty of this country with batons on the streets of Catalonia, Murcia or in Lavapiés and then handing it over with ties in IMF offices. Five, because we consider in Republican Esquerra that the patriotism that deserves millions is not to take breaststrokes while calling Catalan Republicans, radicals to pensioners or terrorists to rappers, we consider that the patriotism that is worth it is the one who wants in his country to know the truth of the confessional relationship between the brain of one of the worst attacks in Europe and the CNI. It seems to us that this is the patriotism that is worth it. And six, because a government that openly, even boasting, spends EUR 87 million on beating up older men and women in front of polling stations on 1 October, apart from cowards - apart from cowards - is a government that lets you know what EUR 280 million will be spent on. With us, of course, do not vote or count. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u167	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor. [[Pause]] It is not Mr Gonzalez, it is Mr Vendrell, but they have to notify the Bureau prior to the changes. Thank you very much. Mr. Vendrell, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u168	Thank you, President. This is the section of the Ministry of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations, a ministry that does not actually have a large budget, but should have a political momentum role. It is the ministry that coordinates relations with the Courts, it is the ministry that transfers the vetoes to the proposals of law of the opposition, preventing - or trying to do - our work, and one of the main elements of democratic degradation that we have had have been these more than sixty vetoes to proposals of law. It is the Ministry for Territorial Administrations in a shared manner with the Ministry of Finance that should lead cooperation with local authorities and autonomous communities. And it must be remembered, it was the ministry and the vice president who was responsible for directing and coordinating the policy, or we should say the government's non-policy in relation to Catalonia, with a disastrous result. A disaster for Catalans and Catalans because it was never supposed to get to where it came from, today we don't even have self-government in Catalonia. The combination of authoritarianism, immobility, the lack of policy of the Government of the State and also the irresponsibility of the Government of the Generalitat has led us to this situation. And it is a disaster for the prestige of institutions and democracy, compromising, for example, the independence of the Constitutional Court itself. A disaster by the October 1 management, with police action that violated rights and that was a huge mistake. And the result of the outsourcing of the management of a political conflict to the judges is in sight: contempt and isolation of Spanish justice in Europe. That's the reality. Now, as already happened in Catalonia with the independence forces, here the PSOE, Citizens and PP also play the game of chicken, to see who makes the most radical, tougher proposal, who makes the most expansive proposal of 155, who hardens the Penal Code more, whether they are accused of little patriots or soft. It is a dangerous game that leads us to chronify and increase the problem, not solve it. Citizens take the palm with the act of nationalist exhibition last Sunday, giving certificates of Spanishness. We do not need essentialist nationalisms, either in Catalonia or in the rest of Spain, but more democratic culture and more sense of responsibility. [[Applauds]] That is what we need, because the wave of flags ends here by agreeing on concrete policies, be it express eviction or these budgets, which we see as Citizens would have no problem voting for them, if this finally happens, with the Basque Nationalist Party. The problem is that they do not have a plan for Catalonia, to resolve the constitutional crisis other than that of judicialization. They have nothing to say to the vast majority of Catalan society, independenceists and non-independenceists. They do not want to assume that the best guarantee for unity is the recognition of diversity, of plurinational reality. They do not have a truly shared project proposal for the whole of Spain to deal with the exhaustion of the autonomous state. Nor is it known what its proposal to revise the financing system, both autonomous and local, is. When we talk about the model of state, we are talking about the model of society. For the PP and Citizens, public administrations are a burden that needs to be reduced, because what they want is less state and more market, and that requires policies of budgetary control, adjustments and continuous recentralisation. The Government and Citizens would want the autonomous communities to be large provincial deputies and municipalities merely administrative managers, with no real political content. A classic of federalism, Daniel Elazar, said federalism is self-government plus shared government. This definition should also apply to the autonomous state, but unfortunately the process of re-centralisation that PP and Citizens drive leaves us with a self-government of the autonomous communities restricted and limited, and no shared government. Low-intensity self-government of municipalities and autonomous communities with the Lrsal, with the application of the expenditure rule, and sectoral laws that limit local authorities and autonomous communities in order to be able to fully exercise their powers with adequate resources. They do not even use existing mechanisms of cooperation and collaboration. The Conference of Presidents meets every many years. Last time in January 2017 and last in 2012. In other decentralized countries it is a permanent agency. The bilateral commissions have met with the Autonomous Communities on very few occasions since you are in the Government. There has been no transfer to communities for four years, and competitive conflict is a constant. In the case of Catalonia between 2011 and 2017 seventy-seven remedies of unconstitutionality, forty-five by the Government of the State, in some cases against laws that affect such sensitive areas as the law to deal with the housing emergency or the Climate Change Act. We have tabled amendments to the financing of the EFE Agency. We welcome the fact that there has been a transaction between PP and Citizens and that it is part of the opinion of the budgets, although we would have liked to be part of that transaction. We understand that in the end they have listened to the pressure of the opposition groups. And we have tabled various amendments of political impetus to additional provisions, in favour of municipalism and the development of self-governments to be led by his ministry, such as the convening of the bilateral commissions of the autonomous states-communities, encouraging compliance by institutional loyalty with the statutes, for example in the provisions of investment in infrastructure, or the submission by the Government of a detailed report on the pending transfers to the autonomous communities and a timetable for their implementation. And of course the impetus of the negotiation on the revision of the financing model, both autonomous and local, or the repeal of the Lrsal through a process of dialogue and negotiation with local corporations and municipal entities, in order to draw up a new regulation of local governance bases and a new model of local finances. We want to have real self-government. We want to have a better shared self-government, because it is the best guarantee of a solid democracy and the development of the social state, and this with you is impossible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Serrano Jiménez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u170	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. They will allow me to first say that talking about the Ministry of the Presidency and for the Territorial Administrations is talking about a failed ministry. I am sorry to say this, but it is obvious that this shows the low level of vision of the PP Government, of the Rajoy Government, which usually understands territorial administrations as a longing for unity and centrality that is far removed from the reality of Spain, and from the democratic trajectory of our rule of law in these forty years of democracy. [[The Lord]] Madam Vice-President, you said that the State General Budgets Act is the most important law. Of course it is. It sets out the priorities of a Government and sets out where its economic resources are to be spent. It is clear that you do not want a social budget or this budget to be social. To begin with, they had forgotten - or rather, did not want to put it - their commitment to the State Pact against Gender Violence. Until then they had forgotten and we had to force them to put the money they had committed to. And it is also far from that job creation that you say you are doing, which is a poor job, a precarious job and a temporary job. Moreover, it is also not true that autonomous funding has increased as you have said, Madam Vice-President. Transfers to communities are growing because revenue forecasts are growing, but they are a result of the application of the funding model. What is not understood is that with these budgets the deliveries on account grow by 3.9%, which is almost half of what the income forecasts do, which grow by 6%. Therefore, Your Honor, the reality is that they have been trying for years to impose on the political debate in this country that distorted image of the autonomous communities and the municipalities as mere wasteful entities. Your Honor, trying to ridicule the autonomies and the municipalities have only ridiculed yourselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, they have always sold the economic crisis as an argument to go against the administrations closest to the citizen. They wanted to hold local politicians accountable for the crisis. Let's control the mayors who spend more than they have, they said. But they fell long ago to portray themselves as what they are: friends of cuts in public spending and sanctioning public administrations. The Ministry of Presidency and Territorial Administrations, far from promoting agreement and good agreement between the central government and the autonomous and local governments, has always been at Mr Montoro's side. The silence of this ministry has been agonizing. Why? Because the People's Party does not believe in public administrations or in public services. We heard him here yesterday. There were different spokesmen from the People's Parliamentary Group who said that public services are not sustainable, that they are unsustainable. Of course they're unsustainable, because you don't believe in them. It is not a problem of spending, but of income, and you make it unsustainable. The People's Party does not believe in them, and that is why it has not yet resolved either autonomous financing or local financing. The Socialist Parliamentary Group again calls on them today to speed up and to push forward and resolve what is their task, to convene as many times as the Conference of Presidents is necessary and, when convened, to comply with what is agreed upon in it. Shakespeare said: Weigh promises with oaths and you will weigh nothing. Madam Vice-President, you and Mr Rajoy have committed themselves to solving autonomous financing and we know nothing. He committed himself to solving local funding, and we don't know anything either. The expert groups had completed their work and neither the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council had been convened nor the National Commission on Local Administration had been convened. All these issues have therefore led the Socialist Parliamentary Group to present an amendment to this section in its entirety, because we believe that this draft budget does not meet, in our view, the objectives or priorities to be governed by the activities of this ministerial department. In particular, if we refer to the specific amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this ministry, I would like to highlight some related to the financing, development, implementation and implementation of the Historical Memory Act. The Socialist Parliamentary Group does not want to open wounds, it just wants to do justice to the victims and families, and to repair the pain of many of them. Neither here nor in Justice, as you will later say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, the reality is that there is no decent departure for historical memory, because you do not believe in historical memory, and it is not a problem of budgets, it is a problem of ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you earlier that the government does not want local authorities, has been crushing and suffocating local authorities for seven years, but they have also wanted to put an end to the local administration, the administration closest to the citizen, have not given it adequate funding and have wanted to take away its powers. That is why we have tabled amendments concerning the local administration, but we also miss the programmes of local cooperation, of aid to municipalities with less than 20 000 inhabitants. You referred to the ERDF funds, to the European funds, and you also referred to the Integrated Urban Sustainable Development Strategy for the 2014-2020 framework, which is the responsibility of your ministry. He says he has 690 million euros, which he has distributed late and badly, because he has split them into three calls. I also thought I heard you say that these funds do not belong to provincial capitals. Tell that to the Secretary of State of Finance, to that Secretary of State of Finance who is accused today, who advanced on May 5th via Twitter that Jaén was responsible for 15 million euros. Yes, he advanced it to his Twitter account. He said: tomorrow I will give a press conference in Jaén to announce that the DUSI Strategy has been granted to the city of Jaén. I tell you that it has been late and bad because with these three calls hardly the municipalities, the municipalities will be able to execute it, and it will hardly be able to be destined to generate employment and the sustainable development of their municipalities. If the depopulation policy envisaged in the Housing Plan helps young people to buy housing in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants, let God come and see him, Madam Vice President, because small municipalities have no housing problems, they have work problems. Therefore - and I conclude already, Mr President - if they cut the financing of local authorities, if there is an infamous spending ceiling, if they have a perverse spending rule, if there is no adequate funding, if they cannot be allocated to investments by the rest of the treasury and they must be allocated to amortizing debt, what remains for the territorial administrations to invest? And if they also mismanage the Feder funds, if they mismanage the European funds, what is left to local corporations to invest? You want to tell me? They want to end the city halls, they want to destroy public administrations, they want to decafeinate and destroy everything that has been the decentralized rule of law of our democracy. That is why I say to him that the Socialist Party, as a municipalist party that is, will continue to work for municipalism and for the municipalities, and will work to get them back all the competences they had and that they have adequate funding. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs Serrano. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u172	Thank you, President. Before we begin with the amendments, I would like to say that I am somewhat surprised that Spanish people who use the flag of Spain are repeatedly criticized by the same parliamentary groups. I might understand that they don't like flags, that PSOE and Podemos don't like flags, but it's that PSOE and Podemos are wrapped in all flags except the flag that represents all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Let's see if they find out once that Spain is not an invention of the right, and that there is nothing more social than a country. With regard to this section 25 of the budgets in Citizens we have wanted to give more resources to the EFE Agency, and in addition several parliamentary groups have affected the same idea, but only one of those parliamentary groups is going to vote in favour of these budgets, the Citizens Parliamentary Group. You are still in time, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to rectify and avoid the nationalist coupon. They are still in time to abstain. The reasons why the Citizens' Parliamentary Group wanted to provide more and more stable funding to the EFE Agency are several, but I will point out the two main ones. The first is because the European Commission has determined that the EFE Agency is an SGEI, a service of general economic interest. This requires development by the Government to ensure its adequate funding. The second is because we believe that the role of the EFE Agency is fundamental in these times where false news can be generated from any IP. We believe that the role of the EFE Agency against these fake news can be fundamental. These fake news are going to be dealt with, both in Europe and here, in Congress, for which a working group has been set up. From this working group, which has not yet been formed, the Lords of Podemos have already come out running, and it is because the Lords of Podemos surf comfortably on the climate that generates this false news, and have a relationship with the very reality that Dracula has with Professor Van Helsing. [[Applauds]] The public media today have a fundamental mission, telling the truth and aseptically reporting. While this was the essential function always of all public media - when bipartisanism leaves them, of course - today, when it can be intoxicated from anywhere in the world and camouflaged in the jungle that is the Internet, it makes this function more fundamental than ever. On the other hand, remember that today more and more are the agencies that report in Spanish, not all Spanish and not all precisely interested in the general interests of the Spaniards. Let's bet that EFE is the Spanish news agency par excellence. EFE has a huge and brilliant service sheet. I would like to recall that it was the EFE Agency that took the photographs - the only ones there are, in fact - of the attempted coup d'état that took place in this very room on 23 February 1981. He was a member of EFE the first Western journalist to find the body of Pol Pot, the leader of the Red Jemeres, in Cambodia. And it was also EFE who followed and unveiled many of the behind-the-scenes of the picturesque and choricesc director of the Civil Guard, Luis Roldán. The first Gulf War, the 82nd World War or Barcelona 92 are other important milestones for EFE. EFE can be one more link with Hispano America, and it is also a way of union with Spanish speaking countries. I would like to use, speaking of the state media, to ask the People's Party to stop blocking the renewal by public competition of Spanish Radiotelevision. We know that putting professionals and not amiguetes at the head of Spanish Radiotelevision is a break to old bipartisanism, it is for the PSOE, which started all this drama of intervention by Spanish Television, censoring, a long time ago, a concert by Javier Krahe, when he sang what you did not like, and it is for the PP, who sends argumentaries to the news when it is the president of the People's Party who has to go to court. Mr Moreno referred to the fact that we have not tabled amendments on Spanish Radio-television, and that this is a symptom that everything goes wonderfully on Spanish Television; and it is that Mr Moreno - who I do not see, but I am sure you will be told that I say this, please - has a very different conception of Spanish Television than we have. Mr Moreno believes that Spanish Radio and Television is the government's radio and television, and we in Citizens believe that Spanish Radio and Television is the Spanish radio and television of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Returning to EFE, to point out the importance of a journalism of the type made by the EFE Agency, I will say that it was a journalist, John Hersey, who forever changed the perspective of the Hiroshima bomb; he did it from a human point of view. He was a journalist, Orwell, the author of the Tribute to Catalonia, who so much let us know about our saddest modern episode, the Civil War. Chaves Nogales also spoke about this war or the fall of France at the hands of the Nazis. Augustus Assia in bombarded London; Camba wandering around the world describing him as no one. All of them journalists writing history. And EFE, among others, describes our present. I don't want to end without thanking the great EFE professionals for their good work, their deal and pulcritude. Everyone in this House knows what I'm talking about, because EFE is here in Congress also telling what's going on in the rest of the world. Good journalism leaves the world described forever. And today's news is tomorrow's story. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Mrs Cortés Bureta has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that you are already familiar with the budget, the accounts of which have been broken by the Vice-President here this afternoon, I will focus on the amendments that the various groups have tabled. But first I wanted to say one thing, Mrs Serrano, accuses us from this rostrum that we do not believe in public services in the People's Party. See if we believe that we pay them; because the governments of the People's Party do what they must, and the governments of the Socialist Party do what they do, and that does not benefit public services at all; at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] This leads me to tell you something else, and we do what we can pay and what we can afford. Furthermore, Mr Vendrell, if we do not veto some of the proposals that you make to this House, let us veto them not because we do not like them, but because we cannot take them, if we faced all your initiatives we would have spent 17.7% of GDP in 2017, which is EUR 106 billion. Where do we get them, ladies and gentlemen? Where do we get them? Do you guys have a magic recipe? Well, please tell us because if it's not impossible that we can face all those demands. As I said with the amendments. The first one I wanted to mention is one of the refund amendments, which the Republican Left Group has tabled; an amendment with an unoriginal argument, since, Mr Rufián, I regret to say that it is the same as in the previous budget. You say that this budget is to place the ministry at the centre of political repression over Catalonia; and you continue to say that this increase is due to the independence process in Catalonia and the assumption by the State of a strategy of persecution of Catalan politicians and institutions, so as to curb the process. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, really, it is not yours to live, because this is to live oppressed, persecuted, spyed on. I do not know how they are able to survive this; there is nothing more to hear from Mr. Rufián when he goes up to this rostrum to check how repressed he is in his arguments and how coerced he is when he exposes his arguments. [[Applauds]] My purpose this afternoon is to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen. I assure you that in the CNI workers who perform their service sometimes at the expense of their lives have great concerns, which are working for the security of all Spaniards, facing the challenges of cybersecurity, security challenges, international terrorism, jihadist terrorism, etc. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you one thing: do not get up and lie down thinking of Catalonia, or much less. Moreover, you don't need to be spied on - you don't need it - because in broad daylight you are able to pull terrorists out and even take them on your television and make journalists laugh at you. Terrorists, ladies and gentlemen, in broad daylight, so they don't need any spies or the CNI spending money on these behaviors. [[Applauds]] The Government is very busy and concerned about the general interest of the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, not in doing what you insinuate, and our State Security Forces and Corpses, Mr Rufián, do not abhor, intervene in certain behaviours. You probably don't mess with shit, but you're a lot of psychological mess by pointing at the children of police and civilian guards in your schools. [[Applauds]] That also means beating up, Your Honor, and minors, who are incapable of defending themselves. Since the CNI's budget in its partial amendments seems very high, they ask that the money earmarked for the CNI go to other projects as solidary as, of course, the Generalitat of Catalonia, to compensate the debt of the State in the financing of the third additional provision of the Statute of Catalonia or to the formation of officials of the General Administration of the State in the language proper to the autonomous community. You are very supportive, and also with justifications such as: Catalan society mostly does not feel concerned, represented or protected by the CNI, and therefore does not want to collaborate with it. It is therefore proposed that the Catalan contribution to this budget be returned to Catalonia. Catalan society, you say, but how Catalan society, Your Honor, what Catalan society: mine. I, as one man, represent the entire Catalan society in this rostrum. What about my Catalan colleagues who don't share their ideas? Do you represent them, too? Are they also representing them? [[Mr. Rufián Romero indicates number four with his fingers in one hand]] It is true that in Catalonia there are many citizens who share their ideas, but you know that there are many more who do not. Many more, and you know it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Denials by Mr Rufián Romero]] And they know it; they know it. And already, as an undisputed argument, adds the lack of transparency of the reserved funds. Your Honor, talking about transparency and reserved funds is not understanding what the reserved funds are, and this humble Member is not going to explain it to you here this afternoon, because you have to come read and learn from home, Your Honor, but the CNI is subject to the democratic control that the General Courts approved, and I will tell you one more thing: regarding that budget which, in your opinion, is destined to the innoble task of preventing any threat that affects the independence and integrity of Spain, you have lost today a golden opportunity to rise to this rostrum and tell the Spaniards and Catalans what it costs to fight and work to destroy that integrity. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You, who ask for transparency for the funds reserved, go up to this rostrum and tell the Spaniards and Catalans how much of your money, your taxes, have been spent on your trial. [[Applauds]] So, Mr Rufián, I think a little bit of modesty when you come here, to this House, to defend according to what things and to put forward certain arguments, would be very good for you and the rest of your colleagues. I wouldn't want to let something happen. Reference has been made to local funding. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not given you any figures because, as the Vice-President was telling you, in an impeccable way, you have already degenerate them here, but I will give you one: 22 750. Does that figure mean anything to you? He probably doesn't tell them anything. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the councillors that the People's Party has all over Spain. Do you really believe that those 22,750 councillors are in the People's Party because it's a party that doesn't care about the local government, local authorities, or municipalities? Do you really believe that those 22,750 councillors, who are one of the main assets of the People's Party, do not come every day to tell us and convey their feelings to us? Of course they do, ladies and gentlemen. We know that and we look after them as much as possible. That is why the budget provides for local funding, European programmes, as they have been told, and the State's Local Economic Cooperation Programme. Another thing is that they do not like it because they would like to have more; we would also like to have more, ladies and gentlemen. Finally - I am sorry, Mr President - as is a classic, the answer is also classic: ladies and gentlemen, stop tabling amendments calling for parties to the historical memory, which are not in this section. You said it and so did we. The People's Party usually stays on its principles, and if it isn't, it isn't. We therefore very much regret not to attend to you in this section. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cortés. We move on to the debate on sections 19, Employment and Social Security, and 60, Social Security. For the presentation of the sections, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to present sections 19 and 60, as well as the articulation of the draft General State Budgets for 2018. These are budgets that will undoubtedly serve to consolidate that social recovery that Spanish society is experiencing today. We are facing the most social budgets of our history, with social spending as never before; budgets that devote 56% of the expenditure to social items, which is 40% more than Spain invested in social spending in 2007, for giving them a figure. They are budgets that move forward and leave no one behind in this recovery and that will also help us to achieve at the end of next year that great national goal, and that is that Spain will get more than 20 million people working, as there were before the crisis, which is the same as saying that the recovery reaches all Spaniards. Thanks to Spanish society we are making progress, creating more jobs - half a million jobs in recent years - and these budgets will consolidate those almost 500,000 jobs in 2018. That is why Spain today leads the job creation in the European Union and has managed, since 2014, to recover 75% of all jobs destroyed in the crisis. These are budgets that also advocate better jobs. We know that we have a long way to go, but there is no doubt that stability and improvement in the quality of employment remain a reality month by month with these budgets. We already accumulated, with the month of April, fifty-one months of consecutive increase in indefinite recruitment in Spain, and with one million less occupied in our country, we already have the level of indefinite employment prior to the crisis. Thanks to Spanish society, employment is being created throughout the national territory, in all the autonomous communities, in all economic sectors and also in those groups that found it more difficult to integrate into the labour market. That is what we call moving forward without leaving anyone behind, and I am referring in particular to young people, among whom employment is growing twice as much as the national average today; women, because today we have more members of Social Security than ever before in our country - 8,660,000; self-employed people, among whom intense employment is also created, because self-employment is now a source of opportunity; people with disabilities, among whom employment is also at its peak. And, of course, it is also good news to know that last year nine out of ten people who left unemployment in our country were long-term unemployed, because those opportunities are reaching the people, the families who need it the most. As I said, there is a lot of work to be done, because, although we have recovered 75% of the jobs destroyed by the crisis, we have to find opportunities for 3 300 000 people who remain on the unemployment lists, people who deserve to work, who want to work and who we are all going to help to find that opportunity as soon as possible. Let us continue to add opportunities with these General State Budgets for 2018. With them we will get Spain Section 19, Employment and Social Security, and Section 60, Social Security each day continue to generate more and better jobs, which improves the lives of those who are among pensioners, with increases in all pensions and in particular lower pensions and widowhood pensions. These budgets also support political stability, which is the best way to continue to grow in a solid and social way. The citizens gave us a mandate and a clear message that meant we agreed, and these budgets are also the budgets of the agreement and the pact. If the negotiations that we have conducted from the Government, led by the Vice-President and the President of the Government, in recent times culminate with the support of seven parliamentary groups, we will be making possible that constructive dialogue, that sum of efforts, so that Spain not only has political stability, but also completes that economic and social recovery that Spanish society demands of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now entering the debate on sections 19 and 60 of the budget. Section 19 is devoted to employment policies. The budget envisages EUR 24 552 million through the Secretariat of State for Employment to continue to advance with priorities: to strengthen the pace of job creation, guaranteeing, as I said, the integration of workers without leaving anyone behind; to improve the protection of workers who remain unemployed; to activate them so that the time back to the labour market is as minimum as possible and to accompany our entire workforce, this talent and human capital, which is the great treasure of Spanish society, so that it adapts to the new transformations that the economy, the digital economy, globalisation and the challenges and challenges that we face. Active policies are undoubtedly that great tool of integration for workers who are in unemployment today. Today, investment in active policies by unemployed people increases by 10% compared to last year and is close to 2000 euros per unemployed person in 2018. It is undoubtedly a commitment to investment in human capital, which is Spain's great strategic asset. These budgets also implement the Spanish Employment Activation Strategy 2017-2020, agreed with the autonomous communities and the social partners. It is a strategy in which we want to make further progress in modernising and coordinating public employment services in order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of active policies and so that the new tools we are using, such as statistical profiling, the single employment portal, the training account or big data and new technologies help us simplify the return time to the labour market of the unemployed in our country. We also want to make a special effort in those groups that have had it most difficult in the crisis, for example young people, the long-term unemployed and those who continue to have it difficult and are at risk of social exclusion. We want to make a special effort in training, which is the great bridge to the labour market, particularly in dual vocational training, by increasing the participation of the autonomous communities in vocational training for employment and by improving the coordination of all public administrations. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, devote EUR 3 billion to training, and I would like to highlight in particular the efforts made for training among young people. If we have almost a million young people in unemployment today, the reality is that half of them have not completed compulsory secondary education. Therefore, training them quickly, which acquire new skills, new capacities to meet the demands of the productive fabric is essential for their employability and for their return to the labour market. We will make an exceptional effort in these budgets to launch, within the framework of the Ministry of Employment, dual vocational training with two clear initiatives. The first is the Youth Guarantee training bonus, which will allow a young person under thirty years of age to train and work at the same time with an additional aid of EUR 430 from the Youth Guarantee, so that he will receive for eighteen months for work and training, through this training and learning contract, a reward of more than EUR 1000, which is certainly a guarantee to encourage entrepreneurs and young people to do this standard of employment and training for our younger workers. We want that job in training to become stable; we want a quality job and we are going to improve the conversion of that training and learning contract into an indefinite contract, giving entrepreneurs to make a €3,000 bonus for three years to give stability to that young person who is born into employment with a training contract. These are budgets, ladies and gentlemen, which also agree on self-employment. The autonomous were undoubtedly the first protagonists of recovery in Spain; today the implementation of the Law on Urgent Reforms of Self-Employment, which you unanimously agreed in this House with the Government, is yielding results. This year's budgets include measures to increase support for entrepreneurship, to improve the social protection of the whole group of self-employed persons and, in particular, to reconcile and improve self-employed women. There are the flat rate of 50 euros, which is increased to one year, the contribution only for the periods actually worked and, as I said to them, the support for conciliation and the motherhood of the autonomous woman as major protagonists in these budgets. These are measures that are beginning to work. In just four months there are more than 40,000 new self-employed registered in the RETA, undoubtedly a collective success of this whole House in supporting self-employment, which is a cornerstone of employment in Spain. In these budgets, moreover - and I would like to thank the work done by the Vice-President of the Government and the Commissioner for Demography and Depopulation in Spain - a flat-rate rural rate -50 euros for two years - is incorporated by amendment for those entrepreneurs who live in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants, in order to promote entrepreneurship and also to ensure that the employment and opportunities of Spanish people continue to be facilitated in all parts of Spain. These are concrete measures in this budget to promote employment and entrepreneurship throughout the national territory. In addition, the employment promotion programme has a budget of EUR 1444 million and incorporates important programmes, such as joint action to improve the care of long-term unemployed persons, in coordination with the autonomous communities; the agricultural employment promotion programme, which is a key element for the rural and Andalusian world; and also those employment and training programmes for persons with disabilities in special employment centres, which achieve the integration of the most vulnerable groups in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, I have referred to the first priority, continuing to create more jobs and accelerating job creation in Spain, which is the great national objective. The second is that we continue to create jobs without leaving anyone behind. This is why these budgets maintain and improve the protection of workers who are still unemployed and who are looking for a job opportunity. The State Employment Public Service devotes 7 out of 10 euros of its resources to unemployment protection. It is a similar investment, ladies and gentlemen, to last year, despite the sharp reduction in unemployment in the last year. This means that it improves coverage by at least two points compared to the previous year. Undoubtedly, this Government is committed to the people in need of greater protection and has launched - by dialogue with the social partners and also with the autonomous communities within the framework of the sectoral conference - a new initiative to maintain and improve unemployment protection in Spain: the supplementary income of unemployment, what we call the RED programme, which is in the process of constructive dialogue, I insist, with the social partners and autonomous communities. This will allow Spain to have a higher level of unemployment protection in 2018 than before the crisis and will allow us to make stable the temporary protection that existed in programs such as the Preparation or the RAI or the Stop Activation Program. In addition, it will allow such protection to reach, with seventy-two months of coverage, those most in need of protection, such as long-term unemployed and over forty-five years of family responsibilities. In this constructive dialogue with the autonomous communities and with the social partners, we continue, ladies and gentlemen, and in the meantime this budget receives an extraordinary unemployment subsidy, in effect until the unemployment rate drops by 15%, so that there is no loss of coverage because the Prep and PAE programmes are already completed, depending on the circumstances, because they were temporary programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to join this constructive debate to improve the social protection of the unemployed in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would also like to refer to another initiative that is reflected in the General Budgets of the State: the universal social card, which was promoted by the Vice-President of the Government together with President Rajoy at the January 2017 Conference of Presidents. It is an initiative that has been dialogued and agreed with the Autonomous Communities, the social partners and also with the EMFF. It is certainly a great tool to improve the care of all people in Spain. It is a universal social card that facilitates transparency and, administratively, simplifies the burden on the citizen and favours preferential care for those who need special care. In addition, it has a universal character. Why? Because this card is constituted as an accreditation mechanism, opening the door to all public policies, but also to all social policies that civil society wants to do within the framework of this policy of corporate social responsibility. It is therefore a mechanism of coordination, transparency, attention to the people who need it most, but also a universal card that confirms our particular situation in favour of the social policies of public administrations and also of civil society. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget addresses the important, present and future of the labour market in Spain, which coincides with what we call in the Ministry of Employment the talent agenda, which means not only that we activate all workers - regardless of age, gender or their training - but also that we have these workers permanently adapted to the challenges and challenges of the time we live in, such as globalisation, revolution 4.0, digitisation and even that demographic challenge that we have on the horizon. This improvement, without doubt, also bears the seal of these budgets, with the State plan for training in digital skills, the first plan that is made of these characteristics in Spain, with 60 million euros, born of social dialogue and will allow to adapt our workers to the new digital economy, source of opportunities for the present and for the future of Spain. This budget also contains, and I want to make it clear, improvements in working conditions. Not only do we want more and better jobs, but with this budget we also want to give a boost to the highest wages in Spain: higher wages in the field of public service and improvements in lower wages, with the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage that we have agreed with the social partners. These are certainly two important signs that, within the framework of the bipartisan dialogue, trade unions and employers will also work together and help from their responsibility and with commitment to ensure that the recovery in Spain will also be accompanied by higher wages in the present and in the future. We are also working on these better working conditions from the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which is, as you know, the last guarantor of the quality of employment in Spain. We reinforce in these budgets the most important asset of the inspection, which is the 3,000 people between inspectors, subcontractors and support staff, in order to promote the quality of employment in Spain. In addition, the State Labour Inspection and Social Security Agency and the National Anti-Fraud Office are operational in the Strategic Inspection Plan, which will improve the effectiveness of this fight against unemployment, irregular employment and social security fraud. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to Section 60 of these budgets, Social Security. These budgets reflect the Government's commitment to all pensioners: to make it possible to live a recovery by paying more pensions to more pensioners and higher than ever in our country. It is a social expenditure that is maintained as the main priority and its exponent is re-expenditure on pensions, which means 41% of the State budget. The one dedicated to pensions is, by contrast, the fundamental part of the Spanish budget. Social Security and Passive Classes represent a total expenditure of EUR 146,300 million, because the budget provides for the increase of all pensions, both contributory and non-contributory. In these 2018 budgets all pensions are raised again, generally 1.6%; minimum and non-contributory pensions are raised 3% and widow's pensions are raised 7.6%. It is about returning the effort that our elders have made in the exit from the crisis and in the beginning of the recovery. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u177	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u178	In addition, in particular, women who are discharged as new pensioners may have up to a 15 per cent pension increase with the maternity supplement depending on the number of children they have had while working. There are more than 186,000 women who will be able to have a supplement of up to 15% of the pension during 2018, and by the end of 2018 it will be 500,000 women in Spain who enjoy being pensioners and receiving a supplement of up to 15% of their pension for having worked and having children who have offered society as a demographic contribution, beyond the economic contribution with their contribution. I want to say at this point in the debate that the increases in pensions - the general increase in pensions of 1.6% and the increase of 3% of minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions - will have effect from 1 January 2018 and will be paid on the payroll of pensioners in Spain before the end of July in a second Social Security pay. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, greater commitment to pensioners and greater social protection. These budgets also include the implementation of the non-contributory protection of orphans, which was agreed with political groups within the framework of the Pact against Gender Violence. They also agree that 100 per cent work and pension can be compatible for self-employed, self-employed and wage-earners. And the paternity leave is also extended for another week, from four to five weeks. Finally, the improvement of social protection also reaches the collective of local police in Spain. Thanks to the commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group, to the commitment of the Government, to which all the groups in this House have joined, there can be a historic demand from the local police in our country, which is the possibility of early retirement. The amendment we introduced in today's session of the Congress of Deputies collects an additional 10.6% contribution to make this early retirement of local police in Spain effective, a commitment by President Rajoy and the People's Parliamentary Group. [[applause]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the regulations for the development of this initiative are being processed through the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, which contains the rest of the legal conditions for finally making possible in our country what has been a historic claim, and it is the early retirement of local police officers. I would like to congratulate the organizations that accompany us today in the rostrum for their work. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. These are budgets that say yes to consolidate recovery with more employment, better jobs and higher pensions. These are budgets that say yes to improve the protection of our unemployed until they reach the labour market again. These are budgets that say yes to improving the employability of young people through training, to improving Spanish families, and they also say yes to the commitment we all have, as public representatives, to promoting political stability, which is the greatest guarantee of consolidating an economic, social and all Spanish recovery. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u179	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr Candela Serna has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. I said - I quote - that they should come out to demonstrate, but to thank the Government. That was said by the spokesman for the People's Party in Congress following the government's actions in the area of pensions, and yet they have not come out to thank him, on the contrary. And they don't, you know why? Because you have broken a basic principle of any government, you have broken the principle by which a government commits itself to providing security, stability and protection, in this case, to pensioners. And they have broken it precisely in front of the people who have built this country, who have helped us young people in the toughest times. You have broken the social pact when you have attacked the livelihood of many families: the pension. In addition, you, in the area of pensions, have played to treat the pensioners as ignorant, saying that no purchasing power was lost and that that 0.25% was raised, demonstrating with that intention their classism, their lack of empathy and assertiveness. But there is more: you, in the area of pensions, broke the Toledo Pact in 2013 and continue to break it, this time with the agreements with the Basque Nationalist Party and Citizens. We ask ourselves the following question: What is the purpose of the Toledo Pact if you skip it when you feel like it? We want you to return to the consensus on pensions, but to do so you need to return to the point before the break-up, which is the 2013 reform, because it is that reform that condemns a lower initial pension and loses purchasing power. Still, there are two things in your recent agreement, one positive and one negative. The positive is that they recognize by the way of the facts that there was money; ergo have been lying knowingly to all pensioners. In addition, they recognize that the public pension system has to move from an actuarial model to a more social model, complementing with taxes. The negative side is that they do not repeal the 2013 reform, as in 2020 it returns to 0.25 and the sustainability factor. The only political objective they have pursued in these budgets is to buy time and the message that moves to pensioners is that they are not people, but goods that can be negotiated in general state budgets. And if there is one thing that no one can tolerate in their dignity, it is to play with their security, with their stability and with the effort of a lifetime and that also depends on the whim of which party on which budget. I'm done. I'll tell you one thing: they're going to have to withdraw the 2013 reform. They are not going to win the pensioners' game because pensioners want to be treated like they are, people with rights and not merchandise. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I would like to begin by thanking the local police unions for their presence. It's been a shared battle. The opposition has been demanding for years that this commitment be fulfilled and perhaps the prospect of tomorrow's vote explains that this compromise has finally been reached that will allow for the fair early retirement of local police officers. He was already playing, and we're happy about it. Having said that, as far as the debate with the Minister is concerned, my group states that the pension agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party certifies the death of the 2013 pension reform and calls into question all the statements made by the President of the Government from this rostrum in the monographic debate on this subject. The lesson is very clear, Mrs Báñez: substantial pension reforms need agreement with the social partners and broad consensus in the House. When that does not happen, the reforms are unfair and the absolute majorities disappear, the reforms are rectified. The correction is complete. Welcome that rectification and now the challenge in the Toledo Pact is to regain the consensus that we had until 2013. We are therefore pleased with this agreement with the PNV for the benefit of pensioners. The outstanding issues are relevant. Secondly, Madam Minister, your Government's main employment failure is what all international bodies continue to denounce: the failure of active employment policies. We are far from allocating the resources that high unemployment in Spain needs and that the skills problems of the unemployed need and we are far from making this policy effective in terms of reintegration and improving employability. There, in particular, these budgets remain clearly insufficient for persons with disabilities and the Democratic Party has therefore tabled some amendments. Thirdly, the Government places a new patch in these budgets in relation to the situation of the long-term unemployed with these extensions introduced in the Preparation and other programmes. But, Mrs Báñez, I must tell you that the People's Parliamentary Group should help unblock the popular legislative initiative that we are dealing with and that it intends to give a structural response to something that we have put in place during these years has not yet been resolved, which is long-term unemployment. With these programmes, Minister, we do not solve any of the problems of lack of coverage that a very significant number of unemployed people continue to suffer. Fourthly, the budget abandons policies to support the local world with regard to the reception and integration of immigrants, in line with the budgetary action taken by the People's Party Government in this area. Finally, this budget in the part under the Ministry of Employment and Social Security continues to keep the social security child benefit, the main instrument in the rest of Europe to combat child poverty, frozen. The Vice-President in her speech told us about the demographic challenge. In the rest of Europe, to meet the demographic challenge, universal and sufficient child benefits have been introduced to help families raise their children. The People's Party fills its mouth with the demographic challenge and with policies to support families, but the truth is that its balance in this matter is a zero potato. These are reasons, Minister, that justify the Democratic Party's rejection of its section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u184	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Let's go straight to the issue of pensions. The 2018 budget of Citizens and the People's Party envisaged a 0.25% rise in poverty for 47% of pensioners and, for the rest, an increase from 1% - i.e. below the CPI - for pensions between 700 and 860 euros and up to 3% for minimum pensions; figures that were not enough to speak of decent pensions. They had to have them rectify the mobilizations of pensioners and trade unions and the negotiation with the Basque Nationalist Party, which raised them by 1.6%, which is also not the same as the CPI, which is clear. We obviously prefer an increase of 1.6% to that of 0.25%, but this fact shows once again that many of the things we do here - too many - are a somewhat bad theatre; without going into detail, the thousands of non-legislative proposals passed, papers, etc. that remain in a drawer or the almost two thousand amendments that Esquerra Republicana has submitted to the budgets of the last two years of which none has been approved: zero approved, there is not a good one. The very Toledo Pact, to which the Republican Left has always been faithful, is another sad theater and I regret to say it after two years of being there, I think working like everyone else. We have been able to see how in the past very important recommendations agreed upon in the Toledo Pact have been systematically breached and how some have frozen pensions and some have made reforms of the unilateral pension system by punishing or deceiving pensioners. We were told that pensions could not be raised because there was no money, but suddenly, in a flat fold, the millions of euros needed to move from a 0.25% increase to a 1.6% increase. Why didn't they do it last year? That's what many pensioners ask themselves. For one simple reason: because, as we have repeated a thousand times since the Republican Left, in the Toledo Pact and outside it there is no pension crisis and there is no political will to fulfil the most elementary, when if it has ever been wanted to be fulfilled. Pensions are members' money, contributors' money. That money is not government money. The Government must manage it and update it by law when the contributor reaches the age or the need to receive a pension. If the budget is not covered through contributions to revalue pensions, so that they are sufficient, that is why the State's budgets, as has been said this time, to fulfil this obligation, one of the most important ones that a Government and a State that qualifies as social must fulfil. The Government continues to manufacture - we have also denounced it from Esquerra Republicana - the deficit of Social Security, it will draw another 3826 million from the Social Security Reserve Fund, which will remain below the 43 billion and instead have a new loan of 15 164 million euros to Social Security, instead of making contributions, transfers in depth lost from the State budget, as provided for by its own law. Ladies and gentlemen, they are in a state of decomposition, in which the executive is above the judiciary and the legislature, I say this with all the letters, but this would be another matter to be discussed. It is paradoxical that, in a State with intolerable figures of precariousness and unemployment, expenditure on unemployment policies amounts to 17,702 million, a decrease of 3.4% compared to 2017, i.e. 616 million euros less. Well, with the figures of precariousness and unemployment that exist, it is incomprehensible for us not to devote this supposed surplus to other groups at risk of social exclusion, especially given that the percentage of unemployed people receiving some kind of aid has fallen significantly and continuously. In 2011, the coverage rate was 70.7 per cent and is now 58.2 per cent, and the amount of such aid has been significantly reduced. In addition, the 2018 State General Budgets envisage a loss of purchasing power for the various groups dependent on the State, since the forecast of an increase in CPI can be 2%, above the forecast of an increase in the salary of officials, Iprem or scholarships. In short, budgets aimed at widening the social and economic gap in the Spanish State. I do not have much more time to defend our amendments, but I do ask all of you once again to vote in favour of amending the increase in the budget line for trade unions. The People's Party and Citizens often talk about trade unions; well, the People's Party talks, Citizens hardly ever talk about trade unions, they don't exist, they don't see them, they just see Spanish. The People's Party talks about the basic role of trade unions in political, economic and social development, which are essential institutions for the defence and promotion of the economic and social interests of workers. But it is the duty of the State to create the necessary conditions for the exercise of trade unionism to be real and effective. In the trade union model defined and adopted by this State, trade unions do not work only for their affiliates and affiliates, but defend the interests of all, and as an obligation they have functions of participation, of negotiation, that are not of limited effectiveness, that is, that they are not only effective for their affiliates, as happens in other trade union models, or changes of trade union model, or in return the State must finance trade unions sufficiently, and that is not the case. Since 2012, the allocations from the State General Budgets to trade union organizations for the implementation of their activities have been significantly reduced, while workers' organizations have continued their trade union functions and activities, with public resources clearly insufficient to carry out their tasks. With our amendment, we call for an increase in this heading, restituting it at European levels to at least EUR 15 million. In conclusion, I would like once again to remind the Socialist Party; these are not just the budgets of the People's Party and the Citizens' Party; it should be remembered that the PSOE abstained from allowing Rajoy to rule on the condition - they said - of then acting as an opposition, but for the time being its opposition has only allowed the People's Party and the Citizens to block dozens of initiatives, projects and progressive and unreplaceable amendments for the interests of the workers of the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u186	Good morning, President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. We have pensions, Social Security and Employment. As far as pensions are concerned, I think there have been two things that have been shown to be outstanding. One, which the Government and its allies blatantly lied to the population when they said there was no money and, two, perhaps even more importantly, that popular mobilization, street struggle, is the only security guarantee that exists in this country to change laws. It is evident at this point that the Government is only retreating when pressure is put on it. From this rostrum we appreciate the struggle of our older generations and we congratulate their partial victory over the government parties, but, as they and they themselves recall, this victory is only partial, and that is why we are submitting the following amendments. Amendments for the full recovery of the purchasing power of pensions. Despite this partial victory that I have just named, there are still outstanding issues that are of interest to millions of families. In 2016 and 2017 prices rose by 3.6% and pensions by 0.5, 0.25 a year and 0.25 the other, and the rest of the money where is it, did the wind take it? We want that money to be returned to the pensioners and we want it for a very simple reason, because it belongs to them. Next amendment, for minimum supplements, to ensure that no pension in our country falls below the poverty line. They are constantly repeating to us how good the economy is, we already have a GDP that is higher now than at the beginning of the financial crisis, we already generate more wealth than in 2008 and we are, although there seems to be people who are forgotten, one of the 15 richest countries in the world. With this data on the table, how can they justify that non-contributory pensions are left in miserable EUR 370 per month and that minimum contributory pensions are left in about EUR 639 per month? I remind you that Eurostat - not us, says Eurostat - set the poverty threshold for our country at 650 euros. Under that figure you cannot live, you cannot reach the end of the month, although to know this to millions of families I think you do not need Eurostat. Amendment for the lifting of the Iprem. As you know, Iprem is the indicator used to calculate many social benefits in our country, such as unemployment benefit, scholarships, housing aid, etc. Since 2010 it has increased the millionaire and staggering figure of 5 euros. In 2010 there were 532 euros and today there are 537. We believe that there is no need to explain why our amendment proposes to raise it to EUR 650 per month, which - I repeat - is the poverty threshold in our country marked by Eurostat. If we go to work, we have to talk about unemployment, as it can't be otherwise. We know perfectly well that this is not a uniform reality in our country, that the differences are very large by territory and that, in some cases, the unemployment rate reaches alarming dimensions. We are referring to places where the unemployment rate is currently 20% or above this figure. We firmly believe that territories such as the Canary Islands, Andalusia, Extremadura, Ceuta, Melilla, Castilla-La Mancha and other small places require special action by the Public Employment Service. We therefore propose amendments to finance special employment plans in these autonomous communities that are not included in this budget bill. Despite the drama that represents everything described above for millions of working families, we find in this year's General State Budgets that the financing of RAI, the Active Income of Insertion, comes down again this year by 8.9% and has been reduced since 2016 - not for ten years, but by two - by 30.7%. And what is the active income of insertion? For the strictly famous 430 euros, which despite being a misery - as we have already pointed out many times - help many people to escape from day to day. They are intended for long-term unemployed persons over forty-five years of age, women victims of macho violence, returning migrants and persons with disabilities over 33 per cent. It should be remembered that in our country we have 1,600,000 people who are unemployed and who have no income; zero, none. We are proposing to increase funding for this programme at least to the 2016 level, extending the budget to EUR 617 million, which would allow more people looking for work to benefit and, in addition, to do so for longer. Are you really going to vote against it? Are you really going to leave the worst people in the country? Do you really have any demonstrable empirical or scientific arguments to continue to say that these are the most social budgets in history? Do they really have it? Really? Really? I do not want to end without talking about one of those hidden amendments, which nobody talks about and which will bring suffering to more than half a million people, in this case more than half a million women, as is often the case elsewhere. I am talking about the suspension of the integration of female domestic workers into the General Social Security System. [[Applauds]] In 2012, the reform of the old special scheme for female domestic workers was approved, with a timetable for the adaptation of the bases and types of contributions to integrate hundreds of thousands of women from this professional group into the General Social Security Scheme. This was expected to happen on January 1, 2019. For the PP presents an amendment, to see if we did not know about the opposition, to see if they could put it in secret, to repeal this forecast, to keep the group of household employees with lower contributions and, therefore, with fewer rights, until at least the year 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you one thing, let us vote against the fact that we are in time to avoid this nonsense. And I'm done with something I know they're going to say, because they're going to say it, and where are they going to get all that money to pay for all this that this man from União Pode? Well, I'm gonna give you a little hint and I'll get out of here. Look, the six major banks in our country, Santander, BBVA, CaixaBank, Bankia, Sabadell and Bankinter have won over the last 10 years, from 2008 to 2017, EUR 84 billion; I repeat again, EUR 84 billion. Do you know how much corporation tax they've paid in these years? Nothing, they haven't paid anything. Worse still, they went out to return the company tax; we have returned 164 million euros of public money, of our tax money, after having won, I repeat for the third time, 84 billion euros. I think if you want, you can. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, these budgets which are being debated here also attest to the government's lack of capacity to correct its wrong path in employment policies. Because these state accounts are not the conclusive proof that the Government persists and results in policies that, apart from affecting the workers' work weakness, deepen the adoption of measures that deepen the galloping social inequality that Spain suffers, and the perverse will to put thousands of Spaniards who remain alien to this economic improvement to which a government installed in the horn of the abundance that exists only in their imagination is repeatedly alluded. With nearly 3.8 million unemployed, with more than 1,210,500 households with all its unemployed members, the Government's solution to these accounts is not a tool designed to improve employment policies. On the contrary, they reiterate the will of this Government to make them an annihilating mechanism for the rights and minimum working conditions in which workers are to develop. Proof of this, ladies and gentlemen, is that with an unemployment rate of 16.55 per cent and a poverty rate of 50 per cent, that is, with half of the unemployed in our country living at risk of poverty, the Government presents us with accounts for 2018 that once again reduce the amount allocated to unemployment benefits, leaving it at 17,702 million euros, that is, 3.4 per cent less than in 2017 and 40 per cent less than in 2011. This, Minister, is not to improve - which is what you have said - but to diminish and worsen. As a result, we will progressively have an increasingly lower coverage rate, but the worst part is that this draft budgets that we are discussing demonstrate the inability of the People's Party Government to understand the working reality of our country, because otherwise there is no explanation for the fact that you have planned to enter by unemployment quotas 20,471 million euros and only allocate 17,702 million euros to this end. To be clear, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 3 billion for the hole of insolidity, holy and sign of the policies of the People's Party in the field of employment. In a work environment where wage poverty, unprotectiveness and lack of coverage for the unemployed, mainly long-term unemployed and young unemployed, their recipe for improving the quality of employment is to give them a new hatchet for employment promotion programmes of more than 38 per cent. We, the Socialist Party, have a quite different employment project for this country. As the report of the Banco de España published today stated, in Spain it is observed that the rise in competitiveness has been based on the wage devaluation of our workers. We do believe in employment policies and believe that the public employment system needs to be strengthened. How? encouraging training for employment through personalized itineraries, with technical assistance to the unemployed, and we also believe in bonuses, despite the fact that yesterday the spokesman of the People's Party criticized us as not, but we believe in bonuses that come to alleviate and combat job poverty and that encourage the creation of quality employment. We are clear that in order to improve the quality of employment in our country, the first thing you would have to do would be to repeal your labour reform. We also believe in the type of bonuses that generate indefinite employment, which are aimed at the most vulnerable groups, those over the age of fifty-five, women who have left or been expelled from the labour market, and those with disabilities. In short, measures to create fairer working conditions. In this regard, we ask you to re-establish the coverage that you have wiped out for those older than fifty-two years, for those older than forty-five years who have been unemployed for more than twelve months, for those unemployed with family burdens, for victims of gender-based violence and for the unemployed with disabilities. With this draft budget, the Government believes it is, Minister, when in reality what you are saying is no, because these accounts are a no to employability, a no to the redistribution of wealth and a no to the fight against labour poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u190	Thank you, President. The amendments tabled by this group are reproduced here. In yesterday's speech, we described these budgets as those of occurrence, those of lack of credibility, those of uncertainty, those of violation of the fundamental right to political participation, gentlemen of Citizens, which encloses to us Members the right to vote today amendments that sought, for example, the repeal of the sustainability factor, and we will add another adjective: opportunism. Minister, if you hadn't said anything, I wouldn't have come in, but arrogating the opportunity for a transactional amendment to the local police seems to me opportunistic and ugly, because you know what's going on? [[applause]] That this amendment is approved thanks to a compromise by the Socialist Group. If you hadn't used it to say that they're fantastic and that they do it very well, I would have kept quiet. Theoretically, you have, as you have told the unions, since November or December that decree about to be prepared. What happened? That until this spokesman mentioned it, they didn't remember? Man, please! [[Applauds]] These budgets corroborate a number of things. First, the public pension system is deconfigured by disconnecting any reform of the consensus of the Toledo Pact: occurrences. Secondly, the structural deficit is consolidated because, as shown in these budgets, they take into account that there will already be a deficit of 1.5, even if you say that of 1.1. I'm finishing up. Today Airef has made it clear that the deficit path is not going to be met. It is paradoxical that there are contradictions in the budgets themselves in this regard. That's obviously bad management, they're bad managers. We tell you to reflect, think and value these amendments because it is an opportunity for the present and for the future for all. The Socialist Group's amendments take account of the improvement of financing, the rationalization of expenditure, the cancellation of loans which weigh on social security today and of course the recovery of purchasing power, because, minister, with due respect, purchasing power will not be guaranteed by 1.1 %. I'm finishing up. Minister, welcome if you are thinking of a new, perfect income, but these budgets do not include and Europe does not believe it: distrust. These budgets generate mistrust. Thirdly, these budgets do not strengthen the labour market and therefore do not strengthen income in the system. If you take the revenues for 2009 and February 2018, you will see that they are still below, despite having an unemployment rate that they denounce every time they come to this rostrum. Fourthly, it is confirmed that the Toledo Pact is no longer necessary to modify the system. Citizens, you have not taken out the holder, but through the proposal for a law that you say is going to fight against the precariousness of the labour market you are turning 180 degrees over to the social protection system, to the pension system; now, that holder does not interest you to take it out. I would tell Mr. Rivera to come and clarify what that tenth additional provision of that bill seeks. Finally, and it is not a minor fact, I tell you sincerely, minister, let us make a collective effort and repeal that reform. Otherwise, by 2035, pensions will have a loss of between 30 and 40%. Minister: opportunist for the background and for the form. Moreover, she forgets women, as the spokesman for Podemos has already told her. Where are the housewives? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u191	You have to conclude, Mrs. Perea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u192	And since we are here, provide documentation so that we can discuss the early retirements of many pensioners who are today poor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, minister; good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As happened yesterday in the section on pensions, we have come up to this rostrum with the duties done, so I will devote my intervention to explaining why these General State Budgets are good for all Spaniards from the point of view of employment and social security. I think we will all agree that the best way to create jobs is to support the large job generators of any economy, and in the Spanish economy the large job generators are the self-employed. In Spain we have more than 3.2 million self-employed workers, who account for just over a quarter of the total working population; however, self-employed workers are able to move one third of the economy, they are able to generate almost one third of all the net employment generated by the Spanish economy. In Citizens we are simply with the autonomous. Citizens have shown that it is the party of the autonomous, and proof of this is that today the Law on Urgent Reforms of Self-Employment, which we remember was an initiative that brought this parliamentary group to this House, is a reality. These General State Budgets envisage the implementation of budget items that will fill with economic content, through 520 million, that flat fee of up to twelve months' duration that we have managed to extend also to finance the contribution aid of the autonomous mothers who care for their children under twelve years of age, for maternity aid or as a complement to other improvements contained - some have said it -, such as the reduction in the half of the surcharges for late payment of the quotas or the different deductions contained in the law, which as a whole will make it possible for the autonomous to benefit from up to 6000 euros per year in the deductions in the IRPF in this year 2018. [[Applauds]] I have to point out at this point, Minister, that we are introducing a number of amendments in favour of the self-employed, some of which we have already been fighting for in the processing of this law, which the Government has vetoed or rejected, such as the increase in the deduction of certain expenses of self-employed persons working in housing up to 30% - water, electricity, etc. - the deduction of the share of self-employed persons in corporation tax, which we believe is a good measure that can be injected directly into the Social Security Fund up to EUR 2000 million if we get these self-employed persons to contribute on a basis that equals their remuneration, or the extension of the flat rate of the self-employed person, which, if we do not do so, will be done by the courts, because the TSJs are saying over and over again that this flat rate should be extended to self-employed persons. As I said, it is a pity that these measures could not be incorporated into these budgets. However, as you know, we are a responsible party and we understand that the accounts must be squared, but I also tell you from here that we will continue to fight with the instruments that we have - with the RETA subcommittee or with proposals for legislation - to adapt this autonomous regime, which is necessary, to the reality of the twenty-first century, to continue to improve the living and employment conditions of our great generators of wealth and employment and to make the autonomous, as we have achieved in this legislature, the real protagonists of the economic policies emanating from this Parliament and not just the protagonists of the electoral campaigns, which are what you and the Socialist Party have done in the years that you have ruled. By the way - I am now addressing the independence parties - do you know that we have more than half a million self-employed people and more than 43 000 self-employed people in Catalonia? Do you know what you have done in Catalonia for self-employed workers? Do you know what the consequences of October 1 for self-employed workers in Catalonia are? I'm telling you. The Economist : Catalonia lost forty autonomous daily in October. [[shows a press clipping]] Information : The loss of autonomous women in Catalonia is accelerated, 46 less a day only in November. [[shows another press clipping]] That is to say, the number of self-employed, the flight of businesses and capital, the loss of opportunities and social fracture. That's the real bill for the process in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] In other words, unemployment remains one of the major problems of our economy, the first concern of the Spaniards, especially long-term unemployment. In the fight against unemployment, neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party has done their duty. A very graphic figure, we have exceeded 20% unemployment by up to three times in the last thirty years. For this reason, from Citizens we bet on active employment policies as a solution to change these dynamics following the recommendations of the European Union, which tells us that we invest little and bad. As these budgets increase active employment policies by 10%, 258 million for personalised vocational guidance and 12 billion for the financing of training checks for the unemployed. These budgets also set in motion - it has been mentioned on several occasions throughout this debate - the wage supplement so that our young people under the age of 30 who work and do not arrive at the end of the month can continue to form and move forward so that they have a life plan that they do not have so far. In the area of social security yesterday we were talking about pensions and we are not going to talk much more here today either. As we said, these budgets solve the problems of short-term pensions. The debate on the sustainability factor is also postponed until 2020 and these short-term problems are therefore resolved and the Toledo Pact is left to work, as we said, to carry out its recommendations for the medium and long term. On the other hand, as you know, one of the problems that directly affects our social security system and its sustainability is the low birth rates, so it is essential to carry out reconciliation policies. These budgets include one more week of paternity leave, which is in addition to the two weeks that we achieved in 2017, there are already five, and progress is being made in the equalization of maternity and paternity leave, which, together with the aid of 1000 euros per year for each child under three years of schooling in a child's school, will help to boost birth and combat the gender gap in employment. All these measures are in addition to those already mentioned by my colleagues in other sections that also affect employment, such as the salary matching of the Police and the Civil Guard, the rise in the salaries of officials and, if the rest of the parties join the amendment - as it seems they will do, although they will then vote against the budgets, which we do not understand - also the claim of our local police officers, whom we greet from here and with whom we have been meeting since the beginning of the legislature. [[applause]] All these measures will make these budgets a good budget for the Spanish as a whole. And here I add to what my colleague Guillermo Díaz said. I believe that the PSOE has had the opportunity for these budgets to go further, to be even better, if they had not left the vote in favour to the nationalist parties, but they still have the opportunity to abstain and correct their mistake. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the employment and pension budgets because they will create almost 500 000 jobs a year, as we have done in previous years. [[Applauds]] It is 2.5 million jobs created, ladies and gentlemen, where is your credibility when you go up here and criticize these budgets? Ladies and gentlemen, it is the budgets of the young people, with this supplement of EUR 430 for the training and learning contract, which, by the way, the left does not want to approve. These are the budgets of the autonomous and it must also be said here that the president of ATA said that the first legislature of Mariano Rajoy was the legislature of the autonomous. Since the People's Party we have always been with the autonomous, always, and all measures to improve the autonomous have the stamp of the People's Party. And thank you very much, Minister, for that maternity supplement; it was time for someone to bet on women and also on motherhood. With regard to female domestic workers, ladies and gentlemen, with this increase in the period of application, what we do is extend the benefits to recruitment, with this reduction of 20% so that more people can hire female domestic workers. As far as unemployment protection is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, of course it is reduced, but unemployment is falling, there is less unemployment and unemployment protection is reduced to a lesser extent than unemployment. Or did you want EUR 30 billion in unemployment protection when you put 3 800 000 people out of work? [[Applauds]] That is when it was a real barbarity; that is the lack of credibility of the Socialist Party when it criticizes these budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment for an extraordinary unemployment benefit because, as you know, the EAP and the Preparations have expired. It is precisely because of this amendment by the People's Group that no unemployed person will be left unprotected. They are budgets that are betting on training, 7% more, said the minister. It is a pity that Andalusia, where socialists have been ruling for more than 40 years and is the most unemployed autonomous community in Europe, has had to pay back almost EUR 1 billion of training. [[Applauds]] That is where you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, rule in Andalusia. And they say you believe in employment policies. You have never been able to create employment; you have never been able to create anything but unemployment, inequality and poverty, and I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply sorry but that is the reality. We in the People's Party have to be proud because before Spain generated half the unemployment in Europe and now Spain leads the creation of jobs. We lead women's job creation, youth job creation, self-employment, full-time job creation. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Don't tell me about the mantra on the left that employment is precarious. Of course, we need to improve employment, but I will give you data for 2017; for each temporary job created, two indefinite jobs were created. Year 2017: 179 000 temporary jobs and 358 000 indefinite jobs. [[Applauds]] That's the reality. The champions of unemployment and the freezing of pensions cannot give us job lessons, ladies and gentlemen; lessons, none. Now I want to talk to you about the local police. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to make early retirement of local police a reality as soon as possible, an amendment which refers to over-quotisation and which had to come here because a rule with legal rank is necessary. The actual decree which refers to the reducing coefficients shall be drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody has done so much for the early retirement of local police officers as the Rajoy Government, Minister Báñez and the People's Parliamentary Group, because we have been working with local police platforms for years, Mrs Perea. [[applause]] And I'm going to tell you one thing, we're going to get the early retirement of the local cops at the hands of the People's Party government, whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Perea, I don't think you've heard well. So many years of socialist government, with Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, and you did nothing for the early retirement of local police. And now you call the minister an opportunist? Ladies and gentlemen, you are too angry. They have, unfortunately and unfortunately, remained out of play absolutely and have been thrown into the mountains, but don't worry, that we will continue to work and get the early retirement of the local police. We have tabled amendments to raise pensions and they are all going to rise by 1.6%, minimums by 3% - twice the CPI - and widowhood almost 8%, five times the CPI. Ladies and gentlemen, the largest rise in pensions in the history of this country, and once again in the hands of the People's Party Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause]] I don't understand why you're so angry, do you mind if we raise pensions above the CPI? I don't understand. If the budget is the key to a country's political and economic stability and if a budget agreement goes through an increase in pensions above the CPI, I say it will be a great agreement, the best possible agreement. No, you're still angry. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for supporting these budgets, but I remind you that you were talking about 2% and here the rise for minimums is 3%, 1.6% for all and almost 8% for widows. I'll tell you about the medallions, so that you can wear the right ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I think you are angry that you have frozen pensions. I thought that after all that made us suffer Zapatero there would be no more; for no, he still does his own. You froze the pensions and had a golden opportunity to make peace and start getting along with our elders and bet... However, you throw yourselves to the mountain, you have pummeled, you have preferred to warm the street... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u197	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u198	...before reaching an agreement on the Toledo Pact. We are and will continue in the Toledo Pact waiting for you. Please return to the Toledo Pact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] As for Podemos and poverty, I told you the other day, Your Honor, households with all their unemployed members have been reduced by 800,000 since the recovery. But I will not tell you any more because you already have enough with everything that is happening to you, with everything that is happening to you; your credibility has been fulminated and your speech is on the ground. Look at the difference; we are here debating, voting and approving budgets that create jobs, that raise pensions, that lower taxes; however, you are debating and voting on the famous chalet of discord, which of course does not raise pensions or lower taxes, ladies and gentlemen. That's the difference, that's the new policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] That is the new policy and I deeply regret it because there are many people who feel deceived and I ask that at least the pensioners do not deceive you because the pensioners have not had any loss of purchasing power; the possible loss of 2017 has been offset by the gains of 2014, 2015 and 2016. And the poverty rate of those over 65 has been halved. I'm done, Mr. President. It is very easy, the People's Party is synonymous with employment and the Rajoy Government is synonymous with rising pensions. And these budgets, which are good for Spain and for the Spanish, if you do not support them, will have to explain why they turn their backs on pensioners, widows, officials, the National Police, the Civil Guard, large families, young people, self-employed people, middle and low incomes, and why they turn their backs on the 500 000 Spaniards who are going to find a job with these General State Budgets, which are the employment budgets, the pensions budgets, the budgets of the People's Party. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u199	The next item is the debate on section 16, Internal affairs. For the section's presentation, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u200	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this intervention to present the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior for this year 2018 wishing the firefighters of the Madrid City Council who have a fortune and find alive the two workers who are looking for the collapse that has occurred at number 19 of General Martínez Campos Street, Chamberí district. May the two workers who were working in that building not have lost their lives. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the opportunity to present the general budgets for the Ministry of the Interior for 2018. A budget that I am satisfied with because, in response to the commitment of this Government, it comes to collect historical demands that date back almost thirty years and we have certainly fulfilled our commitment. This ministry, after years of a major crisis with the adjustments and the effort that it has made for Spanish citizens, has drawn up budgets that not only guarantee the effective functioning of all the public services that we have entrusted, but also allow for progress in fair pay improvements and in the recovery of the staff, which have been heavily punished in recent years. We have made an effort there where we thought it was necessary to do so and I want to allow myself to thank the government colleagues, but especially their President and the Minister of Finance, for their commitment and support so that this has been possible. This budget is the one that corresponds to the time and circumstances, so I say that we have made an effort, and implementing it effectively will enable us to meet the challenges we have faced. It is clearly a budget that is the result of the economic recovery that has begun. To Section 16, Inside, it is tremendously important for us to recover the troops that had been lost in recent years because of the crisis. I will give you a figure; last year we made the largest call for seats for the State Security Forces and Corpses since 2008, but this year the increase in the call is even greater, 115% of the replacement rate; that is, 5775 places, 3200 in the National Police Corps and 2575 in the Civil Guard Corps; almost 11,000 new additions in just two years. That is why I wanted to mention the important effort that this Government has made with regard to the provision of public employment in the State Security Forces and Bodies. But if I want to highlight from these budgets, as you will understand, it is the significant increase in remuneration that the State Security Forces and Corps will have as a result of the agreement of total and absolute equalization at the wage level with the autonomous police that perform the same functions. At this point, I would like to thank everyone for their efforts in dialogue: the unions of the National Police, the associations of the Civil Guard, the commanders of both bodies, the constant and unceasing work of negotiation with the Secretariat of State and other departments of the Ministry of the Interior. I would also like to thank other political groups for also agreeing with this total and absolute equality; it was a just claim, we understood that, and I think it was time to settle that debt that we had. This undoubtedly represents the most significant salary increase that no Government has ever promoted for the National Police and the Civil Guard. I insist, it is a just and deserved equality that I am also sure will lead to a better service for all citizens. We are aware, and we have been keeping it so, of the great work that has been and continues to be done by women and men dedicated to the public service of citizen security. They have managed to do more with less, and it is to thank that daily effort to maintain our security in the broadest sense. That said, the pay improvement will also come for all officials in general in the ministry. Some will find that 1.63, but it is certainly better than those other years when wages have not been able to rise or have frozen; therefore I think it is important that this overall pay improvement, which will also be incorporated into the salaries of the State Security Forces and Bodies. And something significant, although your ladies and gentlemen tend to miss it, is that it is the fourth consecutive year in which there is no debt dragged from previous years. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of credit for the payment of obligations in those previous years. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a sign of good management and efficiency, and it is good that it is now known that it is recognised or will not depend on what your ladies and gentlemen think. It is also important to note that real investments in this budget increase by 18.25 per cent, including the necessary reform plan in police stations and barracks. It is about one hundred and fifty actions that will be carried out this year and that we certainly have to incorporate because they are necessary to improve the dignity in the provision of service and also the attention to the dignity of those who will receive assistance. With regard to training, we place great emphasis on the continuous and necessary formation of the State Security Forces and Bodies and also on the maintenance of the State's comprehensive emergency digital radio communications system, which is one of the essential tools for the daily work of the State Security Forces and Bodies. I would also like to tell you that these budgets allow us to continue with the commitment to purchase and purchase bulletproof vests for both sexes. A file for the acquisition of 5,200 vests for the National Police is currently being processed. The Civil Guard continues with the acquisition of vests, with the purchase forecast of 8809 for this year. I mean, we're going to increase the staffing, we're going to improve salary conditions and also equip the State Security Forces and Corpses. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets also include investments in information technology and border control. I would like to highlight in this brief intervention the second phase of the development of intelligent borders which will be launched and which will be very important in Ceuta and Melilla, and which will also take place in different ports of the peninsula. I am fully aware of the concern generated by the detention centres for foreigners. As we were not in line with the foreign centres we had, this year a new model of infrastructure has been presented for the IECs, as the Government had committed itself. They have been planned exclusively to carry out this mission, including all the needs to ensure that everyone there is fully guaranteed all his or her rights. The first will be that of Algeciras, a new CIE with the new structure we have planned. Therefore, in order to meet these needs that are generated in the detention centres, we maintain the subsidy for the Spanish Red Cross for assistance programmes in the CIEs. Already last year it increased markedly, from EUR 1 125 000. That is the amount we believe should be established. Let us not forget that in 2015 the amount was 400 000 euros, that in 2016 it was 823,000 euros and that last year and this year it is 1 125 000 euros. Credits for international cooperation aimed at strengthening aid to countries on the African continent to prevent irregular immigration and the fight against criminal organizations that profit from trafficking in human beings - as we have been doing and have been doing by the various governments of Spain - are increasing. I would also like to stress that there is a significant increase of EUR 3 million in a heading which in 2017 was EUR 150 000 to strengthen aid in material resources to the countries of the African continent, thereby reinforcing the prevention of irregular immigration at source. We increase our commitment to the International Organization for Migration to promote the voluntary return of immigrants from third countries. We also have planned investments, as it could not otherwise be, in new police stations and Civil Guard barracks. I am not going to detail it now because it is in the investment annex to which your ladies and gentlemen have had access, but new police and barracks facilities are needed, which will begin to be met with the 2018 budgets, if approved. I do not want to say that these budgets will allow us to maintain the ROCA teams, which are deployed in the rural world, which are working so well and which we increase year after year. Or something that is fundamental to us: the defense of minors. The defence of minors in educational establishments, the fight against school harassment or their training as citizens has become a fundamental pillar of the activities of the State Security Forces and Bodies, within the framework of the management plan of the State Security Secretariat. We will continue to collaborate because it is a commitment that we renew every day, with talks in schools, with meetings with parents. Above all, we must warn of the dangers of using new technologies, which must be used correctly so that minors do not run any risk. I would also like to highlight the work being done by the State Security Forces and Bodies in combating gender-based violence. Within the State Pact against Gender Violence, the Ministry of the Interior, as it could not otherwise be, will also have a prominent role and we are going to make an important budgetary effort. We will increase the services used by police and civilian guards to combat gender-based violence. We will continue to make progress, because it seems to us essential, in the coordination of two systems: the comprehensive monitoring system in cases of gender-based violence, the VioGen system, and the administrative records system of support of the Administration of Justice, the Siraj. They must be coordinated between the two - one managed by the Ministry of the Interior and the other by the Ministry of Justice - and coordinated in turn with the system of registration of penal institutions in order to close the circle, give greater and better protection to women and prevent them from being subjected to gender-based violence. We're going to proceed with the adjustment of the spaces in the police facilities. For what purpose? Very simple: avoid the possible secondary victimization of people who suffer gender-based violence. All police stations and barracks that will be projected from now on and all those that will be subject to renovation and reform will have a reserved space for victims of this type of crime and, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, a communication campaign will be launched to disseminate and publicize the AlertCops application in version 4.0 among the population, with a special and specific development for victims of gender-based violence who have already filed complaints, especially so that they can learn to use it and can communicate without leaving any trace with the Police or the Civil Guard in case they are in an emergency. Unfortunately, from the Ministry of the Interior we cannot act in most cases until there is no complaint or until it is too late; hence the work that has been carried out since VioGen is very important. That is why the budgets that I am presenting here today and which I hope will be approved will allow us to continue with the accession of the municipalities and the parliaments to this VioGen system in this strategy to work in a coordinated way, thus reaching out to more people, to be more effective and to be, without a doubt, much more positive in addressing this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, another issue of great concern to this ministry is how to deal with emergencies. I would like to highlight the increase in the Emergency Prevention Fund which was created last year with EUR 80 000 and which this year will have a budget of EUR 180 000 - that is, EUR 100 000 more - and which is dedicated, as you know, to preventive activities such as the carrying out of risk analysis, vulnerability and risk analysis, the drawing up of risk maps for civil protection and the implementation of programmes for awareness-raising and preventive information to citizens and education for prevention in schools. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this ministry deals with a wide range of issues. One of the issues on which your ladies and gentlemen are usually concerned and which the Ministry and the Government attach great importance and importance to is that of asylum, refuge, statelessness and care for the displaced, to which I assure you that this Government has an important commitment. With this budget we will be able to increase the number of staff performing functions related to the processing of international protection files. They're going to allow me to stop especially at something that, given the circumstances we're going through, I want to highlight in a special way. I want to assure the victims of terrorism that they will continue to be a priority for the Ministry of the Interior and this Government. [[Applauds]] In the face of the announcement of the dissolution of the terrorist band ETA, now, as always, the victims are and will be the first. We will therefore maintain grants to associations, foundations and entities representing and defending the victims of terrorism for EUR 930,000. Also the grants for the two foundations attached to the Ministry of the Interior, the Foundation Centre for the Memory of Victims of Terrorism, which will be 1 650 000 euros, which in large part goes to the rehabilitation and completion works of which it will be its main headquarters, and to the Foundation Victims of Terrorism, with 335 000 euros. Indeed, it is planned that in this exercise the rehabilitation works of the former branch of the Banco de España in Vitoria, which, as your lords know, will be the Memorial Center Victims of Terrorism, and of course we will continue with the compensations derived from Law 29/2011, including a provision for compensations, grants and subsidies to victims of terrorism for the amount of 13.5 million euros. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to talk to you about the budget of the Directorate-General for Traffic, which is absolutely linked to our great commitment, which is nothing other than the reduction of victims of traffic accidents and the reduction of the number of accidents that occur; that is the fundamental objective of the ministry in this section. That is why the most important item is that for road safety, with an amount of EUR 766.5 million, and that is why we are working with your ladies and gentlemen on the new road safety strategy. The Ministry has already launched the Plan of Urgent Measures to Reduce Road Accidents, and with this budget we will be able to continue to provide sufficient resources to implement those measures. Before concluding, I would also like to stress the importance and importance of the provision for prison institutions in our budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the repair, maintenance and maintenance of our prisons is permanent and continuous. As we committed ourselves last year, the new centres of Ceuta and Malaga II have been opened, and we do not stay there, we continue to address the modernization of the machinery, the equipment of workshops of own production and the training classes. But in addition, the Government with these budgets is continuing along the same lines as last year with the offer of public employment in prison institutions. It is good that you know that we continue to increase the number of staff while the number of prisoners is reduced. Look, since 2009, we have 14 000 fewer inmates in our detention centres. Ladies and gentlemen, we have put forward a serious, rigorous and effective budget, which responds to the main demands of the citizens and contains substantial improvements compared to the previous year. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against crime, terrorism and corruption requires resources and we will not spare them, and above all we will do so to the extent of our possibilities. The assistance and protection of the weakest is another of our objectives and is fully guaranteed, but I would also like to acknowledge the work, effort, dedication and sacrifice of all the officials, of all the bodies that carry out their work in the Ministry of the Interior. I can assure you that this has been a generous budget. I hope and trust that it can be a useful budget for the stage we are experiencing, but that at the same time it will allow us to take the momentum and strength to continue working in the right direction, because we have important and good projects for the future. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u201	Thank you very much, Minister. In the defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u202	Thank you. Pick it up on. The Government's policy in the Ministry of the Interior is a clear example of the disconnect between the executive and the feeling of the population, in their quest to continue along the same path without accommodating themselves to the new times. Despite the fact that there are still thousands of families who have not been able to recover the remains of their loved ones, all victims of the crimes of Francoism, and society demands truth and justice for them, the Government is committed not to earmark a single euro for historical memory. While citizenship is becoming increasingly sensitive and increasingly aware of the situation of migrants, the Government continues to fail to fulfil the accepted reception commitments, continues to deny the right of asylum to the vast majority of applicants and allocates increased budgetary resources to border control to prevent the arrival of such persons. While it is increasingly the social sectors that demand a different public security stake, a stake by a State that offers instruments to ensure that people exercise their civil and political rights, the Government remains committed to limiting and criminalizing them in order to prevent the manifestation of dissent in their different expressions on the street. And what about the systematic refusal of the Government to act in terms of respect for human rights in relation to Basque political prisoners. More and more voices are calling for the elimination of a prison policy that violates the rights of prisoners and family members and that is not part of the penalty, since the sentence deprives them of liberty, not of the rest of their rights. A few months ago, the Bergeron report was adopted in the European Parliament, which calls for an end to the expulsion for violating Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The General Organic Prison Act itself, in article 12, establishes the location of prisons in the nearest place of residence in order to avoid social uprooting; even the latest report of the Ombudsman states that the communication of inmates should be encouraged and social isolation avoided by facilitating the stay of prisoners in prisons close to their place of social and family ties. If that were not enough, it was an increasingly widespread request in Basque society and, no less serious, the Government was not to be trusted in this matter. I ask you where the pronouncements of leaders of the PP or the former Minister of the Interior, who even came to affirm - there is the hemerotec to check it - that after the disappearance of ETA it would be possible to end the distance, even some dared to venture that in just forty-eight hours. It could be said that the new situation that society perceives as progress is not so for the ladies and gentlemen of the Government, who I understand have a serious problem. Citizenship is becoming increasingly clear that it wants to live together, that it wants guarantees of non-repetition, in addition to the recognition of absolutely all victims, and this is not possible if such future coexistence is not based on the radical defence of human rights, including of prisoners, and is not deepened in a culture of peace that delegitimates the use of violence and the violation of civil and political rights. Leave aside, therefore, policies of revenge and imposition of a single story and connect with society, ready for a plural and inclusive story guarantee of a better future. Leave behind positions that are contrary to the law and human rights and do not wait for Europe to continue to tell you what to do to change. Look at France, which, although slower than many of us wanted, is changing its way of acting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u203	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u204	President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that when you read the Ministry's objectives it sounds very good: to combat gender-based violence, from the police perspective, but this perspective exists and no one is going to deny it; to fight against new forms of crime; to specialize in the laundering system; to fight cybercrime. [[The lady]] All this is fantastic, but then look at the numbers, 8418 million, which is 506 million more euros - i.e. an increase of 6.4%, if I'm not quoting wrong -, and one says: with this increase this will go well, these goals can be covered. Until you find out that the truth is that virtually all of the spending goes to chapter 1. That is so, Minister, it goes to chapter 1; against gender-based violence and cybercrime, yes, there is something, but the overwhelmingly majority percentage goes to chapter 1. We are happy - I think it has to be so - that there is a replenishment of 115% of the State Security Forces and Bodies, but let me tell you, Minister, that we are awaiting the call for five hundred seats in Mossos d'Esquadra; that at this time there is no legal problem whatsoever that is not precisely the fact that you are occupying the Generalitat and simply do not convene the seats, neither these nor any of them; that is, that it is not just those of the mossos either. You continue with this 115% replacement, while the Mossos d'Esquadra can't buy long guns because, without any legal problems, you, installed in the Interior Council of Catalonia, simply don't. You will understand, Minister, that it seems good to me that you get all this, but do you think that on alert 4 it is prudent that we have a promotion of 500 Mossos d'Esquadra and that you cannot have long weapons on alert 4? Honestly, and you will recognize that, this budget is a salary-approval budget. And we're fine with the issue of salary approval, but the PP, when he started talking about police salary approval, always used an argument that I liked very much, which was: we're going to look at everything. I mean, salary approval, yes, but looking who retires, when, how much overtime costs, how much diet costs, and then do a serious salary approval program that doesn't generate other historical debts. This speech has disappeared from the PP. Therefore, we have nothing against this type-approval; they have made a budget of Chapter 1, it is lawful, congratulations, I hope they achieve some of the other objectives, but with this I hope that at least wage-approval will do so from objective and homologable parameters; if not, we will also have problems in the future. And listen, don't forget the Mossos d'Esquadra, who knows that they are integral police in Catalonia and I think they have never failed in their obligations, rather on the contrary; see when the terrorist attacks have happened. Many thanks, minister; many thanks, president; many thanks, lords.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u205	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u206	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, also briefly, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we have tabled an amendment to refund expenditure to section 16 of the budgets, the Ministry of the Interior, for the following reasons. One, because they allocate 7 million euros to what you have been calling since the 1980s, with infamous memory, reserved expenses, something that became very famous, I repeat, in the 1980s thanks to the PSOE. The truth is that history tells us that the expenses reserved in this country, either they are left directly, or they use them to pursue, spy on or destroy political dissent. We are political dissent, so we do not very much agree that so much money should be spent on that. Two, because while more than EUR 141 million is spent on something called - and I read textually - formation of State Security Forces and Bodies, they devote only 6 - I repeat, they devote only 6 - to child care in a country with 30% child poverty, and that seems neither normal nor decent to us. Three, because as long as 12 million euros are spent - and I read textually - in constitutional sociological studies, they dedicate only 6 to the asylum of stateless immigrants, and in a country in which people are greeted with balls and concertinas in Ceuta and Melilla it does not seem to us that it is neither good nor normal nor decent. Four, because as long as 34 million euros are spent on something called - I also read textually - advice of the interests of the State, which is not well known, they dedicate only 11 to the help of the self-employed, in a country in which you, the People's Party, as citizens, are beating each day defending self-employed workers who then betray in meetings of the IBEX 35. Five, because while the ministers Catalá i Zoido offend more the yellow of our ties and ignore the yellow of their companions in the roles of Bárcenas, we find it unwise to let so much money be spent, especially, because experience and history also tell us that in this ministry this money, especially in recent times, is devoting more to inventing lies than to trying, for example, to promote culture. I ended up taking advantage of the present and addressing above all the lordships of the PP and Citizens, who on TV I see that lately they are removing a lot of crosses from a lot of places. I remind you that you have one left and it would be very good if you put yourselves to it. It's super big and it's very localizable. [[Show a photo of the monument of the Valley of the Fallen]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u207	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I give the floor to Mr. Exposito Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon - almost good evening - fellow Members of Parliament. Thank you, Minister, for your presence. You know that our Confederal Parliamentary Group together rejected your proposal for budgets for section 16, the one for the Ministry of the Interior, for the reasons that we have explained to you on more than one occasion in this House, because we have a general disagreement, for example, with the model of security that your ministry applies, according to which we have decided to start calling your'ministry of monitoring and punishing'. To begin with, I would also like to remind you that our group, despite the general disagreement with its budgets, has recorded more than seventy amendments to try to work together at least on a 'Ministry of Monitoring and Punishment' budget that is somewhat more consensual. Well, it turns out that our more than 70 amendments have been rejected by your Government and your party. You have, in general - we have to admit it - a style that we could call animosous when you intervene in this House and we do not care so much that you answer us even, the situation arrived, with unsettled boxes, but we do find it much more serious that you do not listen, that you do not consent, that you do not negotiate. I will give you an example of the results that are derived in this unconfirming way that we have to relate to you. On November 30, 2017, my colleague Edu Santos and I interviewed the Interior Commission in a very serious way... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u209	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u210	Thank you, President. He told him that on 30 November last year, Comrade Eduardo Santos and I approached the Internal Affairs Commission in a rather serious way two of their senior officials in the'ministry of monitoring and punishing', who were in charge of the management of prisons and detention centres for foreigners, and they answered us in a very angry way, because we drew their attention to the need to address the complaints of numerous social organizations regarding the situation of internment that were suffering half a thousand immigrants from the Archidona prison. Well, exactly one month after that interpellation, on 29 December, one of the inmates, Mohamed Bouderbala, a thirty-six-year-old Algerian, was hanged in his cell, and we are still waiting, Minister, for someone to assume the responsibilities and for the State to exercise the necessary reparation. [[Applauds]] Therefore, as a minimum gesture of reparation, today we say his name here in this Chamber: Mohamed Bouderbala. It's okay for you to listen to that name, minister, because this is what happens when you don't listen. It is not a problem of figures, it is not a problem of data, it is not a whim that we have in our parliamentary group - let you listen to us - it is that we must face up, Minister, to the concrete results that the policies of the'ministry of monitoring and punishing' cause. Prison institutions. We are aware that it is very difficult to manage a prison system that leads to the three historical inertias, but its budget proposal does not draw any future model changes and, on the contrary, reinforces the shortcomings of what we already have. For the second year we have asked prisoners to be guaranteed their labour rights and not to work under conditions that the majority unions have described as slave laborers, because it turns out that 70% of working inmates charge less than 300 euros per month. Hers seems to be the model of who pays her, and that contradicts the democratic goals of social reintegration. Your budgets, Minister, neglect the family environment of prisoners, who are then practically abandoned to their fate once they have been released. The only thing he's told us about prison institutions is that they're going to build more prisons. Nor does it grow, as would be necessary, the departure for the staff of penitentiary institutions, nor does it alleviate the very serious shortage of medical treatment staff that are suffering today in our prisons, and I will give you another example. We have asked - two groups - for a specific budget allocation to combat hepatitis in prisons and you have voted against it. Their budgets persist in policies of migration control that violate human rights in many respects, while we have repeatedly asked them to strengthen budgetaryly migration and asylum policies that are based on principles of reception, inclusion and full recognition of rights for all persons residing on national territory. The section Actions related to the improvement of police infrastructure for immigration continues to consist substantially in the maintenance of foreign detention centres, a model, that of the CIE, which is painful and infamous, and we have repeatedly proposed that we discuss them in this House, without you listening to us, which is, in any case, consistent with your failure to comply with the commitment made by your Government in Europe to relocate 17,000 refugees. You have said that you care very much about the question of refugees and asylum, but, Minister, if you are reproached by this House for your failure to do so! [[Applauds]] When you budgetly neglect refugee reception needs, the result is, for example, that municipalities have to assume the burden of a flow of refugees that does not stop because you fail to meet your institutional obligations. Barcelona City Council, for example, had to take care of 4405 asylum applications last year, 500 of them from minors... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u211	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u212	... tripling the number that had to be met in 2015, and had to assume the material needs of reception and integration when among the powers of your ministry is not only granting asylum status to people but also seeking adequate attention to integration; but you have not heard the continued calls of our cities shelter for two years. Let us see if you are ever kind enough to explain to us why you are diverting the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the FAMI, which you receive from the European Union, to finance detention centres and expulsions and not for reception policies. Why do you not strengthen the Asylum and Refugee Office with sufficient staff and financial resources in line with what has been described as the worst refugee crisis in Europe, at least since the Balkan war? Why do they not devote more resources and personnel to speed up the procedures of foreigners, so that the State simply complies with the current legislation and does not leave immigrants in our country behind for months and even years in the renewal of their documents, which is causing intolerable and dangerous situations of irregularity? Why do they not allocate more resources to meet the deadlines that are even regulatory? Finally - I am finishing, Madam President - a positive note. We are pleased that this budget reflects the equalization of wages within the State Security Forces and Bodies. It is a claim that our parliamentary group has defended since the last parliamentary term, as you also know. Let's see if you guarantee that the Civil Guard can enjoy the same rights as the citizens as a whole, such as trade union rights, but if these budgets do not provide sufficient funds for the prevention of crime, for social intervention in the causes of crime or for social reintegration, then you are placing the State Security Forces and Bodies at the centre of a security model that puts tensions that are unnecessary and perfectly negligible. [[applause]] As a committee to discuss what a new police model should be, has just been launched - now I am finished - we are going to turn our proposals into an integral concept of security that is not merely police or punitive. We hope that in this area, Minister, for a change, there will be someone listening in the 'Ministry of Monitoring and Punishment'. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister, for the statement you made to us today on the budget of your ministry, but it is a budget that is born of necessity, and the need you have made it into virtue. What we are asking you from my group is that you do not sell as achievements of the Government achievements that have been made despite the Government, achievements that have been made despite your budget partner and achievements that have been achieved thanks to the work of many political forces, including mine. I would like to give you an example of the pact against gender-based violence, which you have reached with the hook on and against which you have had little to say except for that amendment which you have finally accepted. [[Applauds]] I'm going to be honest with you, I thought this thing we do more with less was the last time I was going to listen to it, more than anything because you guys are getting off with this budget, but today you've said it again. Do you know what worries me after listening to you and reading your budgets carefully? Now they're going to do less with more resources. I'll tell you why. You have spoken of an important issue, which is debt. I'll recognize it, but do you know what you're generating? A debt much more worrying than economic debt, and it is social debt, the debt of a public security model that you are deteriorating, and I will give you two very clear examples. [[applause]] The first has to do with the more than 25,000 missing police and civilian guards, and the second data I'm going to give you is even more worrying, and is that not everyone in this country has equal access to security, because according to the place where people live they have different levels of access to security. This is also due to the lack of troops, and what is worse, Mr Zoido, we are beginning to generate a model in which a few can increasingly have better security because they can be paid for. This is the debt of the People's Party, this is the debt that you are generating; and it is not an economic debt, it is a social debt, a debt that has to do with a model of which you are participants, a model that you have generated and a model that you are trying to fight as that pyromaniac firefighter. In recent years you have had neither investment nor planning in the State Security Forces and Bodies, you have not generated a model of management against irregular immigration, or you have not been concerned with renewing the prison system. As for the lack of personnel you have already said, it comes in the budgets: 115% replacement rate. Do you really think it's enough with the problem of citizen insecurity that we have? He didn't mention it this time, but I'll mention it myself. It has risen 1.6% in the first quarter of the year, with very worrying data that have to do with an increase of 28.4% in sexual assaults; in absolute terms we talk about four sexual assaults a day. But we are also talking about a 4.9 increase in house-force thefts; in absolute terms there are 319 house-force thefts per day in our country. This data has a lot to do with this loss of strength. We have put an amendment to it because we believe that this 115% is clearly insufficient; an amendment with a 150% replacement rate that we believe should cover and alleviate this security deficit that we have in our country as soon as possible. In his ministry I think that there are already few more collectives left to protest him at the door of his office, I think there are very few left. You've had the police and civilian guards, the traffic examiners, at the door of your office, you now have the prison officers. Mr. Zoido, I believe that there is no one left in your ministry to come to you to protest the working conditions in which you find yourself. To our group it seems good - and you know it, because we have passed it on - that increase, that salary improvement of the Police and Civil Guard. What worries us, and we worry too much about that deficit in that public security model, is that there are those who have played this as an auction; a complex auction, an auction that has come to generate a complicated situation within the Police and Civil Guard. We talk about people who have turned it into an auction because they first made up with 30 million euros, then went up to 80 and finally talked about 1.5 million euros. No one knows where that figure came from, no one knows why that sine qua non condition to support budgets. I remember in this House: 500, 500, 500, there are neither 500 nor 500; there are far less than 1500. Still, there have been those who have approved the budgets; that is coherence. But coherence is also measured when someone supports budgets and at the same time leads demonstrations against these budgets. I think someone should take note of this, not everything is worth getting. I was talking to you about the traffic examiners, a collective in respect of which you have managed to adopt an amendment thanks to the compromise of another parliamentary group. I remind you of the different public appearances and statements that you have made both in the Commission and in the media, since at first you did not have this rise. You have made a reference to prison officials, who have been appearing at the gates of prisons for weeks. Today, without going any further, they had called for an arrest for actions which we believe should be explained in Parliament, as we have asked the Secretary of State for Security. We have tabled an amendment to these budgets so that the working and economic conditions of prison officials will improve, because there is a deficit of 3,000 officials at the moment, because it is a clearly ageing staff, because there are prisons that are not open and because we believe that they should be opened as soon as possible. I was talking to him about this public security deficit, a deficit that has not only to do with this lack of staff; a deficit that has to do with the lack of investment. Here, again, you make the need virtue and sell us an investment plan for barracks and police stations when it turns out that for eight years they have made the minimum investments, which has led to further deterioration of the barracks and police stations in our country. Before that you take a rabbit out of the joke; this rabbit consists of your deputies making announcements for each province, for each territory, trying to increase the amount of investment there is for those territories. In the end we can find that there are more investments announced than planned, and we are very much afraid that in this way we will not be able to work or do things. Finally, Madam President, I wanted to conclude with a reference to the State Pact against Gender Violence. Look, Mr. Zoido, you have a very big responsibility because it is your ministry that is going to manage the largest amount of funds in this amount. We're worried about something. We are fundamentally concerned about how you will be able to generate a thousand jobs specifically for gender-based violence with this staffing deficit. And we are even more concerned because it is you who have cut the number of police and civilian guards assigned to specific tasks in the fight against gender-based violence and it is you who have justified this reduction by arguing that there is no need to have agents assigned to these matters because there are already others who can deal with them. I shall now finish, Madam President, by making a brief reference to irregular immigration. Look: the last year has doubled the number of arrivals to our country, we talk about more than 20,000 people who have arrived irregularly and playing their lives. The gateway to the European Union cannot be a metro and a half circle, facing thousands of people on the borders of Ceuta and Melilla. Take note and generate a model against irregular immigration that can end this drama. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas, the citizen parliamentary group, intervenes in the position-setting round. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today, this week, these budgets, the debate that brings us to this House, it is a good day, it is a good week, it is a good day for the State Security Forces and Bodies. State security forces and bodies to which we have begun to resolve an injustice for more than thirty years. An injustice that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party has wanted to solve for thirty years. You tell us, Minister, about the government's effort. I would tell you that every day the effort is put on the street by the men and women of our State Security Forces and Corpses. [[Applauds]] Those are the ones who make the real effort, not the government! They and their families. Families with the worst salaries of the police and the security forces of the State of Europe. Those are the ones who really make the effort day by day and so we have to thank the rest of the Spaniards. Look, the professionals have had to go out on the street. They've had to leave their families. They have had to go out to tell them, to tell all the Spaniards the conditions and injustice that they have been going through for thirty years. And it has had to be precisely a new party too that has heard that, that which has supported and that which has put as a condition, as you know, to approve these budgets that that money will begin to equalize. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u217	Mr. Gutierrez, give me a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats or leave the Chamber. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u218	Thank you, Madam President. You've told us as if this equalization thing is over and it's done nothing but start, I'm telling you: it's done nothing but start. Because the only thing you have committed to is a first part; and yes, Mr Serrada, yes, those 500 million are there. I know you do not like to understand this, but it is the agreement that the legitimate representatives of the workers have signed with the Government. That is the agreement they have signed and that is the agreement we believe we have to respect because there is nothing else. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I know that you want to make a flag of this equality and it seems to me, well, legitimate because in the end your Government has signed it and agreed to it. Indeed, if I do not say no, what I do say is that the government started by 50, then went to 80, to 150 and, in the end, had to put 500, thanks to pressure. I don't come here to score any medals because, you know what? [[Several Members: Nooo!]] I'll explain it to you, the men and women who make up the National Police and the Civil Guard know perfectly well who has done everything possible to make this here today. [[Applauds]] They're the ones who know. What I care about is that they know it, not that you know it or that you recognize it. [[Applauds]] Minister, these budgets - we have already told the Secretary of State - are not ambitious, they could have been more ambitious and, frankly, we really lack a solution to the problem of prison officials, to the problem that really exists within prison administration. There's nothing in these budgets that'll wink at him. You have, as you know perfectly well, all the officials at the door of the centers. It could not have been these budgets, but our commitment is that the following budgets should be the budgets of prison officials. [[Applauds]] I'll let you know. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it seems ironic that in the end they leave it to the Basque Nationalist Party to approve these budgets to make, precisely, the equalization of the police and civilian guards; it is absolutely ironic. They leave the Basque Nationalist Party pending Torra, to see if there is any luck and vote for them and then you can slip the bundle and do not tell these 47 million Spaniards who depend on Mr. Torra for the PNV lords to approve the budgets or not. You'll have to explain it to him. I would like the Socialist Party to remain a state party, I would like them to have a project for Spain and not let the Basque nationalists be the ones to condition their support for these General State Budgets depending on whether or not Article 155 is raised. It seems to me absolutely irresponsible and a lack of sense of state which the Socialist Party has never shown but which is now being seen. Minister, I'm done. A gram of action is more valuable than a ton of intent. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Martín-Toledano has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to focus on what is important and what is important is not to answer independentist parties that have come here today to make a flag that they are a persecuted and marginal group. As another companion has already told you, you rise with complete and absolute freedom to this rostrum, make your criticisms and leave freely. [[Protests]] They don't sell that Spain is a country... [[Protests.-Applause.]] You say you cannot speak freely, Your Honor, and it is false. These General State Budgets are the best since the beginning of the crisis, that is obvious, and in the Interior as well. Even the Socialist Party and Podemos say so and their amendments to the whole of Section 16. It is written that these are the best budgets since the crisis began. They don't like them for other reasons but they're the best, they say, it's written, ladies and gentlemen. To whom I do not understand is to the Socialist Party because when in 2017 he presented his amendment to the whole of this section 16 he said that he criticized it because it was only up by 0.1% and now it is up by 6.66% and still seems to them little, opposing this section. This is about the two hard eggs: if a 1 goes up you have to go up a 3, if a 5 goes up you have to go up a 10 and if a 20 goes up you have to go up a 30. Some responsibility and seriousness should be demanded on such global and state-level issues as security policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the budget for the equalization of the salary of the State Security Forces and Bodies with the autonomous police. Here we have seen a rooster drill that comes out, poops and says that no one has done anything but him for matching the police and the Civil Guard with the Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Applauds]] And here it is not about hanging medals but it is the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party that has effectively closed the agreement with the legitimate representatives of the National Police and the Civil Guard at the negotiating tables as mandated by law. We must negotiate with those who have the legal representation of these institutions, of these workers: the Civil Guard and the National Police. And it is a historical fact, indeed: thirty years of claim: The left did not even when governing the PSOE with absolute majority nor supported by the United Left did the equalization. Mr Gutiérrez, you tell me that the issue has evolved. I still remember right there when you came to me and said, "Man, let's see if we can put 80 million for matching in five years; you've been changing. But we have negotiated with whom we had to negotiate and we have reached an agreement that is extraordinary, unique and historic. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is also the budget for the increase in staffing. Man!, the PSOE has selective amnesia, it does not remember Zapatero's budgets when there was no replacement rate for the State Security Forces and Bodies. The staffing deficit has not only been generated by the People's Party in the 2012 and 2013 budgets! No, no, it was also done in 2010 and 2011, or did they not exist in 2010 and 2011 or the Zapatero decree of 2010, which lowered the salary of officials by 5 per cent, frozen pensions and also frozen the replacement rate? [[Applauds]] Memory, but always, don't be so selective and have a little judgment. I remember that when there was a replacement rate of 50, the PSOE asked for 75, when there was 100, it asked 110, and when there was 115, it asked 150. I am sure that if the budgets had 150 they would ask for 300, because this is asking for more and more. But this is not the letter to the Magi, because to pay that bill from Podemos and the PSOE, that letter to the Magi does not pay it from the East, no, no; the Spaniards pay it with their contributions, with their taxes, do not pay it from the East, ladies and gentlemen. I will tell you that this is also an investor budget. We go back to the same thing with PSOE and Podemos. Investments grow by more than 16% and seem to them little. A plan of action is going to be made in barracks and police stations, 150, it seems to you little. If it were 50 they would ask 100, if it were 150, 200; and if it were 200, 300; it's always the same. Be a little serious and recognize that an effort is being made, that it is being improved, and that the Ministry of the Interior is fully fulfilling the obligations of all the sectors to which it has to serve. The expenditure also increases, ladies and gentlemen, two hundred actions for police stations and barracks, so that gender victims have a suitable place to declare. It will seem to you a little two hundred actions, but it is a novelty and we have a commitment to move forward in that direction. These budgets are obviously also those of dialogue. They complain that there has been no dialogue, says the representative of Podemos, because only Mr Delgado came to talk to me about one of his seventy-seven amendments. No one from your party has come to talk to us about negotiating anything because, among other things, the not of Podemos and the not of the PSOE was said before - before - that the draft budgets were presented. You would have said not always, with these budgets or with other different ones, because he is not the no to wear down the People's Party. That these budgets help the Spanish citizens, you don't care very much. All they want is to harm the People's Party government, and that is unfair to citizens, who are favored with these budgets, especially the State Security Forces and Bodies. To vote no to these budgets is to vote no to equality, ladies and gentlemen, and to see how they explain it to the Civil Guard and the National Police; and they can meet with those who beat up civilian guards and their partners in Alsasua and then explain it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u221	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall suspend the plenary session for ten minutes to order the votes. About ten minutes we'll call you to the vote. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the voting on the titles and sections discussed at yesterday's and today's sitting; we will therefore vote until section 17 inclusive. Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with Title I. Firstly, we voted on the Socialist Group's amendments. Amendment 3203. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 170 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u223	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the text of the opinion in Title I. Vote on the opinion without prejudice to any amendments which may be made to it as a result of the amendments adopted in the course of the debate. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 347; in favour, 176; against, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u224	It was adopted. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have to repeat this. We've been in the Chamber for almost 12 hours. Please, I beg your silence. We moved on to Title II. We are voting, first of all, on the Socialist Group's amendment, Amendment 2970. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 170 against 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u225	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the text of the opinion in Title II. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 177 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u226	It was adopted. We voted, ladies and gentlemen, on Title III. We begin with the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, Amendment No 5829. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 8 against, 245 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u227	It's rejected. Amendment 5830. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 245 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u228	It's rejected. Amendment 5831. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u229	It's rejected. Amendments 5832 and 5833. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u230	They're rejected. Amendments 5835 and 5836. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 20 against, 177 abstentions, 150.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u231	They're rejected. Amendment 5838. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u232	It's rejected. Amendment 5839. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 176 abstentions, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u233	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 89 against, 177 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u234	They're rejected. Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left. We start with Amendments 3379, 3380, 3385, 3387, 3388, 3391 and 3392. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 177 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u235	They're rejected. Amendments 3395 and 3396. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u236	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u237	They're rejected. Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. Firstly, amendments 3555, 3556, 3559, 3560, 3562, 3566 and 3580 to 3583. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 79 against, 176 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u238	They're rejected. Amendment 3570. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 187.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u239	It's rejected. Amendment 3579. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 78 against, 176 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u240	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u241	They're rejected. We are now voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the Socialist Group's amendments. Amendments 3085 and 3086. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 162 against, 177 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u242	They're rejected. Transactional amendment 39 to amendment 3088. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 328 against, 11 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u243	It's approved. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u244	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the text of the opinion in Title III. Vote on the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u245	It was adopted. We now vote on Title IV, which has no amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the text of the opinion in Title IV. Vote on the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u246	It was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to Title VIII. We began by voting on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendments Nos 3599 and 3600. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 80 against, 176 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u247	They're rejected. Amendment 3601. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u248	It's rejected. Amendment 4161. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 171 against, 176;
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u249	It's rejected. We are now voting on the Socialist Group's amendment, Amendment 3056. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u250	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the text of the opinion in Title VIII. We voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u251	It was adopted. We are voting now, ladies and gentlemen, on section 07, passive classes, which has no amendments. We shall vote on the text of the opinion in section 07, passive classes. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 176 against, 168 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u252	It was adopted. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen, now to title V. Firstly, we voted for the amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left, Amendment 3400. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u253	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the text of the opinion in Title V. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 176 against, 170 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u254	It was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we now vote on section 06, public debt. Amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Amendment 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 87 against 260.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u255	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the text of the opinion in section 06, public debt. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 175 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u256	It was adopted. We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on Title VI. We begin with the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, we voted on Amendment 5859. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 330.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u257	It's rejected. Amendment 5860. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 261.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u258	It's rejected. Amendment 5872. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 328 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u259	It's rejected. Amendment 5873. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 8 against, 337 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u260	It's rejected. Amendment 5874. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 77 against, 261 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u261	It's rejected. Amendment 5875. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 176 abstentions, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u262	It's rejected. We are now voting on compromise amendment 35 to Amendment 5882. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 193 against, 69 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u263	It's approved. Amendment 5889. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 261 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u264	It's rejected. Amendment 5890. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u265	It's rejected. Amendment 5891. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 84 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u266	It's rejected. Amendment 5897. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u267	It's rejected. We are now voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, we are going to vote on Amendment 3402. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 178 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u268	It's rejected. Amendments 3411 and 3412. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u269	They're rejected. Amendment 3413. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 177 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u270	It's rejected. We voted on Amendments Nos 3414 and 3417. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 176 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u271	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u272	They're rejected. We now vote on the amendment by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Amendment 3595. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u273	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the text of the opinion in Title VI. We shall vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 177 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u274	The text of the opinion in Title VI was adopted. We shall now vote on Title VII. Firstly, amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendment, first of all, 5894. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u275	It's rejected. Amendment 5896. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u276	It's rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment 3415. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u277	It's rejected. Amendment 3416. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u278	It's rejected. We shall now vote on the Socialist Group's amendment, Amendment 3214. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u279	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the text of the opinion in Title VII. Ladies and gentlemen, vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 177 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u280	The text of the opinion in Title VII was adopted. We shall now vote on the additional, temporary and final provisions. Firstly, the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. We shall vote on Amendment 5720. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u281	It's rejected. We now vote on Amendment 5721. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 91 against, 176 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u282	It's rejected. We shall now vote on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví. Firstly, Amendment No 1028. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 78 against, 267 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u283	It's rejected. We shall now vote on Amendments Nos 1032, 1035, 1037, 1040, 1043 and 1045. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u284	They're rejected. Amendments 1034 and 1041. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 78 against, 177 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u285	They're rejected. Amendment 1036. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 22 against, 259 abstentions, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u286	It's rejected. Amendment 1039. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 21 against, 176 abstentions, 150.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u287	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 78 against, 259 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u288	They're rejected. We shall now vote on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, amendments 5898, 5957 and 5983. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 101 against, 176 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u289	They're rejected. Amendments 5899, 5901 and 5953. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 20 against, 176 abstentions, 151.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u290	They're rejected. Amendments 5900, 5906, 5908, 5919, 5958 and 5985. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 177 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u291	They're rejected. Amendments 5903, 5914, 5967, 5968 and 5976. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 260 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u292	They're rejected. Amendments 5909, 5911, 5916, 5920, 5922, 5960 and 5973. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 258 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u293	They're rejected. Amendment 5910. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 175 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u294	It's rejected. Amendments 5923 and 5929. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 103 against 244.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u295	They're rejected. Amendment 5925. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 328.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u296	It's rejected. Amendments 5930, 5938, 5939 and 5954 to 5956. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u297	They're rejected. Amendment 5937. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 176 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u298	It's rejected. Amendments 5941 and 5942. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 260 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u299	They're rejected. Amendment 5944. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 169 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u300	It's rejected. Amendments 5947 and 5970. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u301	They're rejected. Amendment 5966. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 245 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u302	It's rejected. Amendment 5972. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 17 against, 176 abstentions, 153.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u303	It's rejected. Amendment 5974. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 327 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u304	It's rejected. Amendment 5975. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 259 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u305	It's rejected. Amendment 5976. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 261 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u306	It's rejected. Amendments 5977 and 5978. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 328 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u307	They're rejected. Amendment 5988. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u308	It's rejected. Amendment 5989. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 176 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u309	It's rejected. Amendment 5991. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 177 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u310	It's rejected. Amendments 5994 to 5996. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u311	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u312	They're rejected. We are now beginning with the amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left. Firstly, amendments 3420, 3440, 3441, 3444, 3450, 3455, 3456, 3466, 3476, 3487, 3543 to 3545 and 3549. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u313	They're rejected. Amendments 3421, 3425, 3429, 3431, 3438, 3442, 3445, 3446, 3461, 3464, 3467, 3468, 3470, 3471, 3473, 3477, 3483, 3491, 3533, 3539, 3540 and 3552. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 177 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u314	They're rejected. We voted on Amendment 3424. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 20 against, 244 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u315	It's rejected. We voted on Amendments Nos 3427, 3459 and 3460. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 259 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u316	They're rejected. Amendment 3449. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u317	It's rejected. Amendments 3452 to 3454, 3495, 3497 to 3499, 3506 and 3527. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u318	They're rejected. Amendments 3458 and 3465 The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u319	They're rejected. Amendment 3462. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 103 against, 243 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u320	It's rejected. Amendment 3463. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 17 against, 259 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u321	It's rejected. Amendments 3472, 3509, 3516 and 3517. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u322	They're rejected. Amendment 3482. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 178 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u323	It's rejected. Amendment 3485. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 328.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u324	It's rejected. Amendments 3508, 3515, 3522, 3523 and 3525. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 84 against, 258 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u325	They're rejected. Amendment 3514. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 85 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u326	It's rejected. Amendments 3541 and 3542. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 259 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u327	They're rejected. Amendment 3551. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u328	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u329	They're rejected. Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. Firstly, Amendments Nos 3602 and 3604. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 175 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u330	They're rejected. Amendments 3607, 3621, 3624, 3626, 3634, 3910, 3990, 3992, 3995, 3996, 4152, 4171 and 4173. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 81 against, 258 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u331	They're rejected. Amendments 3611, 3635, 3636, 3638, 3643, 3752, 3767, 3873, 3878, 3911, 3931, 3935, 3939, 3941, 3945, 3954, 3981, 3987, 3993, 4001, 4003, 4004, 4014, 4015, 4078, 4079, 4087 and 4169. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 177 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u332	They're rejected. Amendment 3613. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u333	It's rejected. Amendment 3641. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 169 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u334	It's rejected. Amendment 3649. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u335	It's rejected. Amendment 3651. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 80 against, 259 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u336	It's rejected. Amendment 3652. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 162 against, 175 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u337	It's rejected. Amendments 3657, 3658 and 3662. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u338	They're rejected. Amendment 3661. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 81 against, 175 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u339	It's rejected. Amendments 3664 to 3676, 3679, 3682, 3686, 3687, 3689, 3695, 3703, 3713 to 3715, 3717, 3720, 3724, 3732, 3734, 3738, 3739, 3746 to 3750, 3753, 3762, 3764, 3768 to 3770, 3788, 3793, 3795, 3821, 3831, 3840, 3869, 3875, 3880, 3883 to 3892, 3894, 3895, 3898 to 3905 and 3909. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 177 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u340	They're rejected. Amendment 3776. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 257 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u341	It's rejected. Amendment 3870. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 178 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u342	It's rejected. Amendments 3871 and 3872. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 159 against, 177 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u343	They're rejected. Amendment 3874. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 150 against, 187 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u344	It's rejected. Amendments 3923, 3985, 4139, 4150, 4159 and 4167. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u345	They're rejected. Amendment 3938. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 175 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u346	It's rejected. Amendments 4019 and 4190. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 162 against, 176 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u347	They're rejected. Amendment 4080. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u348	It's rejected. Amendments 4081, 4082, 4085 and 4086. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 68 against, 178 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u349	They're rejected. Amendments 4083 and 4084. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 76 against, 176 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u350	They're rejected. Amendment 4089. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 69 against, 176 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u351	It's rejected. Amendment 4090. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 69 against, 176 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u352	It's rejected. Amendment 4134. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 77 against, 176 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u353	It's rejected. Amendment 4141. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u354	It's rejected. Transactional amendment 34 to Amendments 3916 and 3919. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 327 against, 1 abstention, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u355	It's approved. Transactional amendment 41 to amendment 4063. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 80 against, 176 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u356	It's rejected. Transactional amendment 42 presented to amendment 3647. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 345 against, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u357	It's approved. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u358	It's rejected. We are now voting on the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendments Nos 2965 and 3070. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u359	They're rejected. Amendments 2972, 2980 and 3072. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u360	They're rejected. Amendments 2975, 3075, 3160 and 3168. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 162 against, 176 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u361	They're rejected. Amendment 2979. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 97 against, 242 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u362	It's rejected. Amendments 2981, 2985, 3029, 3166, 3169 to 3172, 3180, 3194, 3238, 3241 and 5828. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 102 against, 177 abstentions, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u363	They're rejected. Amendments 2984, 2994, 3019 and 3182. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 94 against, 244 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u364	They're rejected. Amendments 2987 and 3116. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 152 against, 193.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u365	They're rejected. Amendments 3018, 3130, 3147, 3148, 3153-3155, 3162 and 3233. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 154 against, 176 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u366	They're rejected. Amendment 3073. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 162 against, 184 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u367	It's rejected. Amendments 3093, 3094 and 3096. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u368	They're rejected. Amendment 3111. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 184.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u369	It's rejected. Amendment 3121. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u370	It's rejected. Amendment 3122. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 90 against, 245 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u371	It's rejected. Amendment 3123. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 151 against, 193 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u372	It's rejected. Amendments 3124, 3129, 3133, 3134, 3141, 3164, 3189, 3196, 3205, 3206, 3208 to 3213, 3222 to 3227, 3230 to 3232, 3246 to 3249, 3254, 3256, 3259, 3262, 3263, 3265, 3266, 3274, 3276, 3280, 6918 to 6922, 6937 and 6938. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u373	They're rejected. Amendment 3125. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 91 against, 176 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u374	It's rejected. Amendment 3127. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 83 against, 185 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u375	It's rejected. Amendments 3131 and 3188. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 153 against, 184 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u376	They're rejected. Amendment 3132. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 82 against, 245 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u377	It's rejected. Amendments 3135, 3136 and 3184. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 91 against, 176 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u378	It's rejected. Amendment 3140. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 91 against, 174 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u379	It's rejected. Amendment 3143. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 159 against, 174 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u380	It's rejected. Amendment 3144. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 161 against, 175 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u381	It's rejected. Amendment 3146. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 83 against, 176 abstentions, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u382	It's rejected. Amendments 3149 to 3152, 3156 and 3163. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 84 against, 176 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u383	They're rejected. Amendment 3157. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 151 against, 195 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u384	It's rejected. Amendment 3158. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 84 against, 253 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u385	It's rejected. Amendment 3161, 3255 and 3257. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 159 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u386	They're rejected. Amendment 3204. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u387	It's rejected. Amendment 6908. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 83 against, 185 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u388	It's rejected. Transactional amendment 43 to amendment 3009. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 345 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u389	It's approved. Transactional amendment 74 to amendment 3021. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 337 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u390	It's approved. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u391	They're rejected. Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendments tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto. Amendment 3284. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 161 against, 175 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u392	It's rejected. Amendment 3285. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u393	It's rejected. We are now voting on the amendment by the Socialist and Joint Parliamentary Groups. Amendment 3286. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u394	It's rejected. Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Esquerra Republicana y Mixto. Commission compromise amendment No 15 to Amendments Nos 3283 and 6832. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 208 abstentions, 139.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u395	It's approved. Amendment of the parliamentary groups Popular, Socialist, Confederal of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, de Esquerra Republicana, Vasco y Mixto. [[EAJ-PNV]] Transactional amendment 38 to Amendments 2841, 2843, 949, 5820, 1260 and 6686. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 346 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u396	It's approved. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion on the additional, transitional, derogation and final provisions. We voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 176 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u397	It was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on Annexes I to XIV and new ones. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendment 3267. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 185 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u398	It's rejected. Amendment 3277. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u399	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 151 against, 176 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u400	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Annexes I to XIV and new ones. We voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 176 against, 170 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u401	It was adopted. We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to Section 20, Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda. We are voting, first of all, on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. Transactional amendments 1 to 26 submitted, respectively, to Amendments 5726, 5728, 5730, 5735 to 5737, 5745, 5748 to 5754, 5771, 5775, 5782 to 5787, 5793, 5794, 5801 and 5810. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 335 against, 9 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u402	They're approved. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 149 against, 177 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u403	They're rejected. We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. Amendment 1311. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 184 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u404	It's rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendment 6490. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u405	It's rejected. Amendment 6493. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 175 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u406	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 167 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u407	They're rejected. We shall now vote on the amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left. Firstly, Amendment 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 177 abstentions, 151.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u408	It's rejected. Amendment 723. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 83 against, 176 abstentions, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u409	It's rejected. Amendment 724. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 85 against, 258 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u410	It's rejected. Amendments 725, 726 and 727. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 85 against, 259 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u411	They're rejected. Amendments 728, 729 and 730. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u412	They're rejected. Amendment 734. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 326 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u413	It's rejected. Amendments 743, 744 and 758. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 99 against, 176 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u414	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u415	They're rejected. We now vote on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendment 4963. The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u416	It's rejected. Amendments 5003, 5004, 5005, 5025, 5029, 5048, 5054 to 5058 and 5065. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 171 against, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u417	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 158 against, 175 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u418	They're rejected. We are now voting on the Socialist Group's amendments. Amendment 2371. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u419	It's rejected. Amendments 2373 to 2379, 2391 to 2394, 2400, 2404, 2410 to 2415, 2421 to 2427 and 2429 to 2434. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 152 against, 176 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u420	They're rejected. Amendments 2385, 2389, 2402, 2405, 2408 and 2409. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u421	They're rejected. Amendment 2390. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u422	It's rejected. Amendments 2401 and 2403. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 82 against, 185 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u423	They're rejected. Amendment 2428. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 92 against, 244 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u424	It's rejected. Amendment 6915. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 85 against, 245 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u425	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u426	They're rejected. Text of the opinion of Section 20, Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u427	The opinion in Section 20, Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda was adopted. We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to section 15, Finance and Public Service. Firstly, we are going to vote on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. Amendment 1051. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 176 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u428	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 169 against, 175 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u429	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendments 6029 and 6031. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 84 against, 176 abstentions, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u430	They're rejected. Amendment 6030. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 257 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u431	It's rejected. Amendment 6032. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u432	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 167 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-22-CD180522.u433	They're rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group.
