ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. The only item on the agenda for this sitting is the debate and procedure on the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández and eighty-three other members of the Government presided over by Mr Mariano Rajoy Brey, who includes Mr Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 113.3 of the Constitution, this motion of censure will not be put to the vote until tomorrow, Friday, 1 June. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ábalos Meco has the floor to table the motion of censure on behalf of the Members of the European Parliament. [[Applauds]] Mr Ábalos Meco: Good morning. Good morning. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the disposal of the powers conferred on us by Article 113 of the Constitution, eighty-four Members of the Socialist Group have registered a motion of censure aimed at demanding the political responsibility of the Government presided over by Mr Mariano Rajoy Brey. Also, in accordance with the same constitutional provisions, the signatories appointed Don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]] I turn to the House for the reasons that have led us to the motion of censure. Once the Gürtel judgment is known, there are no longer assumptions, but certainties: the legal certainty that Gürtel was the PP and the PP was Gürtel. In the words of the judgment itself, the People's Party since its foundation has been, and I do not value, read textually, a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption, through the manipulation of central, autonomous and local public procurement. Justice says so. A judgment which also certifies the lack of credibility of Mr Rajoy's statement in court when he pointed out that he knew nothing about box B of the presiding party, whose existence, according to the judgment, is accredited. And I read - I do not think -, I read the sentence: Mr Arenas, Mr Álvarez-Cascos, Mr García-Escudero and Mr Rajoy deny the existence of a B box in the party. However, the prosecutor's office rejects the veracity of these testimonies by indicating - the argument shared by the court - that the credibility of these witnesses is being questioned, whose testimony does not appear credible enough to refute the strong evidence on the party's box B. A sentence that condemns for the first time a political party for corruption, and I literally refer to the judicial ruling. [[protests.-Various Members of Parliament: No, no]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u2	Quiet. Mr Ábalos Meco: The facts are prior to the reform of the Criminal Code which introduced criminal liability of legal persons, so that a possible criminal liability of the People's Party as a legal person is not being clarified in this procedure, which is not legally feasible by the date of the facts, regardless of the appearance of them as constituents of the illegal annexation of funds from crimes of prevarication, cohécho and others, and of the intervention that could have had relevant persons of that political party, who took advantage of the performance of their public offices obtained as members of that party, both of their central structure and of the territorial ones, which have been prosecuted in the present, and which, with their criminal activity, developed in terms as reflected in various passages of this judgment, produced quantifiable economic benefits to the People's Party, consisting of the illegal financing of activities and various political acts carried out in campaigns and electoral precampaciones for their candidates, who otherwise had to be financed directly with economic resources belonging to the political party in question. This is what the sentence says. In other words, they have been condemned civilly and not criminally simply for the date on which these acts were committed, because if the current Criminal Code, which includes the criminal responsibility of political parties, had been applied, he would also have been convicted criminally. [[rumors]] [[Protests.-Several Members: Ah!]] The sentence has unleashed, as is normal - except in you - an immense indignation among the Spaniards, a logic of social indignation as a result of the fact that, over the past seven years, citizens have seen, since governing the People's Party, how they have been sacrificed and asked by their rulers for a sacrifice in the form of precariousness, wage devaluation, cuts in rights, freedoms and public policies that are incorporated in the welfare state. Meanwhile, the leading leaders of his party, the party in government, led an irregularly funded organization and many of its positions were illegally enriched. While families suffered the crisis others became millionaires, and you also made them a tax amnesty. [[Protests]] While Spain was early, Spain was studying, Spain was struggling to reach the end of the month, while that real Spain was fighting every day you were showing off at imperial weddings and celebrations, which are left for history. [[Applauds]] They created with their particular use of power a true perfect circle of corruption, covering it up with tricks and tricks, hindering justice to try to deceive people, as they have done these days denying what I have read to them, as they did when they destroyed the evidence. We all know that we have one piece left for failure that has to do with the obstruction of the action of justice by destroying evidence; that is another piece that remains ahead of us as well. To this end, they have not hesitated to charge even judges with prevarication these days. They have set aside those who believe they would be harmed; today we come here with the modification of a court that has not completed its task, and they have not had enough time, they have not even had the aesthetic sense of coming to this debate. [[Laughs from the Minister of Justice, Catalá Polo]] Of course, it motivates them to laugh, that's the problem; it's that if not, we wouldn't be in this rostrum. If I did not motivate you to laugh, if you understood the gravity of the situation, I would not be here defending this motion. [[Applauds]] If it is very easy to understand it; if it is an elementary sense of democratic principles, of respect for the judiciary; the Minister of Justice cannot laugh at a judgment of the hearing, but of course, I cannot ask you any more, you are reprobated but still there. I can't ask you any more, but it's not a receipt, what will the judges of this country think? And I finish the paragraph, it saved me. Having lost the absolute majority, this House was finally able to set up some Committee of Inquiry, and as a democratic reaction - in quotes - taking advantage of its majority in the Senate, they mounted a Commission fraud to their measure; so fraud, so fraud that only those who have invented it, the rest will not even appear, for something will be. [[rumors.-Laughter]] That ability of yours to consent around, against you, does not cease to be a skill. It is curious, but this Commission only investigates all those who disturb the People's Party, but not in time, but in the present. You say something: to the Commission; you go out somewhere: to the Commission; you threaten me with someone coming: to the Commission, using appearances as a mechanism of intimidation. [[rumors.-Laughter]] That doesn't make it a democratic force, it doesn't, because after having raised a series of appearances, they reopen it three times and I end up on the list myself. [[applause]] That's right, the argument I've read in the press: for being Valencian. Man, for being Valencian! Nor that we had a different race or ethnicity, for being Valencian! I have nothing to do with what you are supposed to want, no, except to be socialist and Valencian, and to much honor! [[rumors]] [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ah!]] [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]] Now, I remind you that they have 420 accused Valencians and have not called any. You could ask them. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the judgment - I have a very fine ear - also represents a huge deterioration in the image and projection of our reputation. [[protests]] Of course, when you want to ask for something at the international level about justice and outside you see the case we do to our justice, you have to have some doubt when you see us this way. In Europe, this club of democratic development and civilization that we hope to be part of, they see that here we take our sentences seriously, and that is not good for our reputation. Throughout Thursday, 24 May, the Socialist Party waited for the only answer to such serious events: the resignation of the President of the Government. So that's how we were told: the PSOE is silent, he hasn't said anything all day. The heaviest always think the same: it is that it has nothing to say. We did have to say. What we expected were gestures, acts. You know perfectly well that we weren't in that register; we didn't expect anything, we didn't want anything. This country has a lot of problems. We didn't expect it. [[Rumors]] We were hoping for a reaction from you, a gesture. None. The reaction was always: to deny the reality, and in this case also to deny the judicial ruling and to undermine the task of the judges. The reaction was the usual one. Because of this situation, where the size and level, Mr President, can be appreciated, and I am not happy with that, you will not pass as a good president to the democratic history of our country. [[Rumors]] You, Mr President, have sunk to unsuspected limits the dignity of the seat you occupy. Faced with that reality - everyone says it, inside and outside this House, inside and outside our country - it has not had the political decency to at least resign. The strength of democratic institutions depends to a large extent on the confidence that the people who occupy them raise among the citizens. The permanence in the Presidency of the Government of the most responsible for a political formation declared judicially as part of a genuine system of institutional corruption seriously affects the credibility of the Presidency and of the Government, and the very dignity of our democracy, because, ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating today is something as simple as that: our democracy, the validity of our democracy. That is the conclusion of the whole debate that we are going to have today, because I say so because I have the right word. [[a Member: Because you say so]] [[Laughter and applause]] Socialist representatives in the various institutions, in municipalities, in autonomous parliaments, here in Congress, in the Senate, we have been asking for years, proposing commissions of inquiry and demanding responsibilities for a plot that now justice condemns - it is not a novelty, it is true -. I would almost say that we have learned to live together and grow up with the Gürtel case, with which there are those who have reached the age of majority and those who have reached adolescence, with so many years of Gürtel thought it is something familiar. The difference is that now we have a sentence. You have had many years to clarify, recognize, assume political responsibilities to institutions like this House - it has also been tried, unsuccessfully - and to citizens. They've never done anything in all these years. You have marked the strategy: to deny the obvious; to look elsewhere; to blame the opposition, especially as always the socialists, that we are rubber. You have had years, Mr Rajoy, to explain to the citizens what was going on. They have had time to act humbly. In the end the attitude is very important, recognizing the facts, asking for forgiveness, above all collaborating with justice and assuming political responsibilities, but none of this has been done in all these years. When we have evidence we demand responsibilities - it is true that we have demanded them since the time of the evidence - but we were required to respect the presumption of innocence, we were asked to endure a judicial ruling. We have lived in the universe of the presumption of offenses and the presumption of innocence, but this time of presumptions is over, and now we are faced with certainties, and respect for the dignity of citizens demands that the facts be admitted by their responsible. If sentences could have a retroactive effect on politics, there are choices that you shouldn't have won. They have financed them with Box B; they have nominated candidates who are now sentenced to more than thirty years. They've been fooling the citizenry for a long time! It is necessary to think about the validity, validity, legitimacy of the seats you occupy, because they have been financed irregularly! [[Applauds]] The answer remains the same, the same as on the day of the sentence at the same time: to deny the facts, to avoid any kind of responsibility and always to derive guilt from others. This is like the kids, isn't it? What happens to me is always someone's fault: the teacher, my mother, the friend, it's always someone's, to see if it hangs. But with proven and judged facts waiting for time to pass, for us to resign ourselves to impunity, for us to forget these facts, it is true that it is no longer your responsibility, but the rest. You can pretend; I'd even say it's understandable to survive, to defend yourself. What about the rest? Is the rest going to work with impunity? The rest of you gonna cover all this up? Are you going to share the assumption of responsibilities? [[Applauds]] Well, in the face of this very serious situation of political disaffection, of institutional crisis, yes, yes, because the breakdown in the confidence of the judiciary, one of the powers of the independent State, is the reason for the crisis; of the crisis of confidence of Spanish citizens in their rulers, where we try to equal the moral level so that all political representation is infamous. I don't know what great triumph we have gained from that consideration. I don't know what an ennoblement task for political representation is to say that corruption is a matter for everyone. [[Applauds]] Doesn't seem like a great task. Well, we did it after those twenty-four hours without any reaction presenting a motion of censure, which we are debating today. By the way, in an express version; delighted with life, hard things have to happen as soon as possible, but it has made us all speed up. This motion of censure is an instrument that our Constitution grants to respond to serious situations of institutional crisis such as this one that is going through the country. It is therefore a constitutional mechanism, and let us also say that it is perfected by constitutional experience. It is an instrument that, if we are not to get used to mining or destroying governments, requires an alternative. Look, I assure you that the easiest thing would be the first part, not too much support in the House; the other is already more complicated, and it is also true that it requires a much higher level of responsibility than it proposes, because it not only has to win the House's approval, but also the confidence to undertake a new task, and that is a responsibility that not everyone is willing to undertake if there really is a chance that this motion will succeed. In our case, therefore, this is a calm, firm, State-sense and constitutional response. However, the reaction of this Government and the People's Party to this initiative has given us almost more reason to justify its presentation. However, I am convinced that members of the People's Party and their own voters do not deserve this show, do not deserve it. By using this constitutional framework that supports this motion of censure the People's Party and some members of the Government have dared to qualify our candidate as an enemy of the rule of law; ratified remains, an enemy of the rule of law. They have qualified our candidate as a judas of politics, ratified remains. If we support you in defending the constitutional order, Pedro Sánchez is a loyal Stateman; but if he uses the same Constitution to demand your responsibilities, there is not a minute to call him an enemy of the rule of law. [[Applauds]] Within 24 hours one can move from one thing to another, even within the constitutional framework. The truth is that such hoaxes are very disappointing; look that we have behaved - in person, our secretary general, our parliamentary group - with a loyalty that we do not regret, but that does not lead us to surrender. [[rumors]] You've always thought that's about giving yourself up; you're taking it very badly that you don't give yourself up, very badly. [[Laughter]] This of being equal, of having the same aspirations, of disputing spaces leads him frankly wrong, and that's democracy, that's democracy. [[applause]] But it's not new. [[Rumors]] President, I don't care, I have the list now, because I have memory, and I know what they're dedicating to me from their seats. [[laughs]] But it's nothing new, neither is this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u3	Mr Ábalos, as you know, it is the Presidency that gives the floor or does not give the floor and observes the Rules of Procedure and applies it. Thank you very much. Go on. [[Rumors]] Mr ÁBALOS MECO: Socialists know very well that the People's Party is capable of crossing all these lines; it is not the first time. Nevertheless, they say to the Socialist Party that we want to have access to power at any price. [[A Member: It's true]] For that is not true, we do not want to access the government in any way. [[Several Members: Nooo!]] We want to do so according to the constitutional order, according to the Spanish Constitution - constitutionalists from beginning to end - and we do not want to do so by illegal means, such as the use of illegal financing, of which you have been sentenced according to this ruling. That is to come to power in any form and that is a criminal form. You are not especially followers of Montesquieu: you question the separation of powers that characterizes the rule of law, you claim that justice and this House do and say what is good for you and, if not, you discredit it, as you have been doing with the sentence for days, or block it, as you are also doing with justice. You care relatively little about the state and Spain, at least preferably. [[applause]] They care about their survival, and to achieve it they do not worry about weakening or damaging the image of our institutions and our well-being. The institutions matter to you as long as you have the power, when you do not have the power everything is good and you question everything if it is necessary; you take the ball and you leave us all without ball or doormanship, you dismantle it. [[a lady Member: What a barbarity!]] [[Applauds]] They have summed it up in one sentence - I know that Mr Montoro does not like the phrase, but it is great and sums up all this I say -: Let Spain fall, that we will already raise it. That's philosophy. Ladies and gentlemen, because we exercise our responsibility under the Constitution, we react to a government that is questioning the rule of law, pointing out judicial sentences as biased, threatening anyone who dares to question their permanence in the government, as if it were theirs, as if it were theirs. What the People's Party is saying is that we must give it among all impunity, among all; even with the sentence it continues to deny this reality. If this House does not react, what are we going to say when the following pieces come just from this Gürtel case? Do we comment on them or let them pass? We would have to let them pass, because they would remind us of a certain shame, that of not having reacted in front of them. Look, we're commenting on a judgment, but it's that two weeks ago - I think, because this is going so fast - in another piece of the Gürtel case already seen for sentencing, some of the defendants have acknowledged the guilt. Therefore, it is not the first one that we find; this one, which illegally financed the municipal and autonomous electoral campaigns of 2007 and the generals of 2008 in Valencia, which constitutes three electoral crimes plus one of continuous documental falsity, has already been recognized by several of the accused, with which, as far as these are concerned, the sentence is already clear. We have three sentences from Gürtel, all in the same direction, and we have so many more. Gürtel alone! The visit of the Holy Father to Valencia. What a better opportunity to get something out! Boadilla, Arganda, Jerez, AENA, Formula 1 and Bárcenas papers. [[Laughter]] I'm just talking about Gürtel! What will we say when the numerous sentences of the Lezo, Punica, Taula and Erial cases come out? [[Rumors.-Several Members: And the EREs!]] There's a difference. I know what you are going to say and I am telling you that the difference is that there are some who leave political life and others who cling to it. The difference is that some get rich and some don't. [[Applauds]] The difference is that an organization is condemned as being maintained - well, it is not maintained, it has grown - and it has developed with irregular funding and others are not. If this House does not react today, what are we going to say when all these sentences arrive? What messages are we sending to justice professionals, to those who work rigorously and independently if this House of Popular Representation is not able to react? We Spaniards cannot tolerate corruption or indecency as if it were something normal, we cannot normalize corruption in our lives or in institutions. Corruption can be inevitable - it can never be avoided - but it cannot be justified and, in that sense, decency must be essential, not accessory. This of stability, if it is compatible with corruption, is to get trembling, because, in that logic, the more corruption the more stability. But who wants to get us into that circle? Moreover, it is well known that the corrupt countries are the least competitive, the least growing countries and where poverty is stagnating. [[Greetings.-Rumores.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived]] This is already very much studied. [[Applauds]] Socialists think that by evicting a government that protects the corruption of its party we have already done our country a favor... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u4	Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. Mr Ábalos Meco:... to whom we want to be worthy, decent and proud of their institutions. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u5	Quiet, please. Mr Ábalos Meco: This is a motion of censure to restore the dignity of our democracy. We are addressing what this House, the representative of popular sovereignty, is willing to tolerate. That's what we're discussing. This is not a motion of censure based on the questioning of the policies that the Government implements, which we may or may not like - in our case we do not like - nor on the weakness of the Government - which has it - no. There would be many reasons to table a motion of censure of this nature, but this has nothing to do with this, it has to do with dignity, the defence of democratic principles and the defence of the rule of law. That is why this motion cannot be instrumental, nor can it be replaced only by an election call, because it is about making clear this House's reprobation of practices that have attacked the democratic system that cannot remedy any general elections. [[Applauds]] First this and then the elections, because, if not, this will be impunity and this House has to record that it reproaches and repudiates these practices, and then elections. [[Applauds]] First the failure of this House, which cannot be absent or autistic of what is happening in reality. That is to show that this is a strong democracy that does not let this happen. That's why it can't be instrumental, it's essential; that's the difference. The Socialist Group has tabled this motion with eighty-four signatures, more than twice as much as it can be demanded, and we put forward as a candidate our Secretary-General, the one who has already submitted to the scrutiny of the citizens in the last elections and made this group the first group of the opposition. [[a Member of Parliament: And he lost!]] [[Rumors]] Don't worry. [[Several Members: He lost!]] What the three hundred and fifty Members of this House have before them is the decision whether they want to continue with a government presided over by the head of a party declared judicially as part of a genuine system of institutional corruption or not, as simple as that. This is what this debate is about. It's the decision we have to make between today and tomorrow. The Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, is the oldest in this House. It has held governments with absolute majorities and without them, our Members have presided over the debates in this House for years. We have participated in the most important debates in the lives of citizens. The Socialist Group has promoted and defended laws and the same democracy from these seats. We have agreed, discussed, discussed and agreed. Believe me if I tell you that if any group has a PhD in democratic consensus, it is the one that honors me to represent. [[Applauds]] The motion of censure is an act of necessity, because the challenges that Spain is going to face require a government with sufficient moral authority. The State must have a Government with strength and moral authority. This is a motion of censure to recover the rules of the game that have been questioned and violated by your party by having gone for decades to the elections with irregular funding, making traps, let us speak clear. We filed an ambitious motion, yes. Do not think that they reproach us; the socialists have always been, ambitious, and we will always be, but it is a collective ambition, not an individual one; an ambition that benefits everyone and not just a few. [[A Member of Parliament: Yes, yes]] From this ambition we have made possible the greatest social conquests of democracy, the greatest conquests of citizens' rights. From this ambition we have made possible a Spain of coexistence and respect. That remains our ambition, a Spain of coexistence and respect. [[A Member: Yes, yes]] The defense of the rights of citizens, the defense of those who have less, the defense of Spain that we are, of diverse Spain, of plural Spain, of Spain that fights for their rights in the streets and of solidarity Spain; that is our way of understanding patriotism, that is our patriotism, and that is also our main political heritage. It is a motion of censure to defend our Constitution, because the rights, freedoms and the requirement of exemplary and public ethics of each and every one of the positions we represent are also reflected in our constitutional order. It is a motion of censure in favour of the recovery of the normality of our public life, to remove corruption from politics and to speak again about what matters to citizens: their social and labour rights, their freedoms questioned, the challenges we have on the table in the field of inequality, precariousness or sustainability of our country. In order to be able to talk about the urgency, we need to talk about the fundamentals first. Spain needs to face solutions to pressing problems of citizenship: pensions, equality, employment, housing, dependency, health, rights. We need real policy to guarantee the united Spain that we have always been. We need to face with serenity and strength those who threaten Europe. All this is urgent, but in order to be able to work, to get to work among all of us, we need first the fundamentals: strong and credible institutions, a democracy of guarantees and rights and decent rulers in order to be able to reach agreements on solving citizens' problems. Gentlemen of the People's Party, right now this is impossible with you in the government. First, let us regain the necessary political and institutional normality for our country; secondly, let us seek the necessary stability; thirdly, let us call elections. Censorship, stability and elections. Gentlemen of the People's Party, for you and for us politics with capital letters never meant the same thing. The sense of state, institutional loyalty, constitutional respect, the exercise of power are concepts that certainly do not deserve the same consideration. For you the meaning is subordinated to your interest. For socialists politics is the opportunity for those who aspire to a more just world with the hope of equal opportunities; politics is the means to fight for justice, rights and freedoms; politics is to talk to society, with those who represent citizens to seek better opportunities for all. When I look at people, when I look at people's faces, I don't just see Spaniards, I see young people with hope, women fighting for their rights, parents worried about their children's future, grandparents worried about their pensions, people who were born here, who were born outside our borders... [[rumors]] I see, in short, people with longings, concerns and hopes; I see the diversity of a people who want to share a common project, and that common project for us is Spain. [[Applauds]] Spain is all that and not a geographical accident, nor a race, nor a religion, nor a culture. Spain is a common project, and it becomes great as we make a big project. That's the way to love a country. [[Rumors]] Not a country to carry it in your pocket or to do it with your pocket or your pocket. [[Applauds]] We have a big homeland. The policy, gentlemen of the People's Party, is also to defend the Constitution, the institutions, the powers of the State; it is to defend a democracy in which everyone can be presented and represented. All this, gentlemen of the People's Party, all this which we defend, all this has been undermined by you in these few years of systematic corruption from the institutions. Madam President, I would like to end by formally thanking from this rostrum, the seat of the representation of popular sovereignty, all the militants and socialist public officials who have denounced the corruption of the People's Party during these long years from all the institutions and who have suffered their furious attack. [[Applauds]] To my colleagues, but also to all the members of the rest of the political parties without exclusion, to all those who have devoted part of their time or commitment to these tasks of democratic hygiene. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank the justice professionals and the professionals of the State Security Forces and Corps, yes, and that is what a civil guard grandson says. [[Rumors]] So, always, my respect. I would like to thank him for his work for this country, for which he has also suffered the attacks and disqualifications of the People's Party. I include gratitude for those who assumed their responsibility and guilt and have collaborated with justice in clarifying and replenishing the assets of all Spaniards and Spaniards. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, be sure that we assume this time with due responsibility, with full awareness of the complexity of the moment, the difficulties and challenges present. We are aware, but we face it with respect for the law, for the Constitution, and we will ensure coexistence, for the necessary coexistence, preserving respect between and towards all Spaniards and all Spaniards from the recognition of their diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, this month we have reached 139 years of history. Here we are 139 years later, and I just want to tell you that we are a party of our word. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by Mr Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Ábalos, you have put your best efforts to exaggerate rhetorically the reasons that are intended to justify this motion of censure. He has designed a sinister picture that does not look like reality at all, but that fits very well with the fit of his candidate's interests. They have asked you to justify the unjustifiable, and you have done everything you have been able to, except two things: be right and convince us. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] It was a task - don't worry - impossible, I recognize it, even for you. In my modest way of looking, he has lacked reason in form and in the background. As far as form is concerned, this motion could not be more impulsive or impetuous, if it prefers. If the motion submitted by the Podemos Group a year ago was announced a month in advance, yours has come to the assault, nightly and hasty. I don't know what they were afraid of. An election call that ruined their operation? They're wrong. That others beat them by the hand? That will not be the case. You can see that they live in the bubble that forms their own uneasy opinions. You were in such a hurry that you hid it from the leadership of your party, that is to say, you yourselves, less evil than before making any decision you had already collected eighty-four signatures from your deputies. [[laughs]] I wonder if they knew what they were signing. [[Rumors]] It has not given them time to even probe what supports they could count on before registering it, not even to know if the motion was viable. Neither did you have time to measure the consequences of your initiative, the good ones and, above all, the bad ones, for you and others. I don't blame them. You have lacked time, and it is well known that you, as you have just shown, do not like prudence to spoil opportunities. It gives the impression that Mr Sánchez, who is with us today and who is a candidate, perceived the motion as an epiphany, a sudden resplendent revelation, and rushed without thinking about it so that no one would dispute the initiative. Mr Ábalos, we have carefully read the motives behind this motion of censure, carefully. It is summarized, according to the writing recorded in this House by you, in the free, interested and manipulated interpretation of a court judgment; a judgment which, moreover, is neither firm nor unanimous, because it has a particular vote. [[applause]] But that's what it gives you. His mouth is filled with the expression 'State of law', which do not know what it is, and then he says what he just said this morning in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] Why do I say it's a free, interested and manipulated interpretation? Because the text of his motion says the opposite of the sentence. There is no line, I repeat, there is no line in those 1600 leaflets where there is a criminal conviction to the Government of Spain or the People's Party, nor a line, and this fact, fundamental and decisive... [[Applauds]] I repeat, this fundamental and decisive fact is that you not only ignore it, but pretend to hide it on the basis of expressions as uplifting as false. The sentence has not condemned any member of the government to which you censor, none. How could I do that, Your Honor, if they weren't even tried? Nor to anyone who is currently a member of the People's Party, to anyone; people who have been convicted for a long time have ceased to be so because they have assumed their political responsibilities. And most importantly, it has also not established any criminal responsibility for the People's Party - I repeat -, no criminal responsibility for the People's Party. Only a civil liability is established; a civil liability as a profit-making participant for certain events - remember it well, Mr Ábalos - that took place in two municipalities fifteen years ago. The judgement concludes that there is no criminal conviction. Why? Because profit participation cannot generate any criminal liability, since the figure of the participant assumes by definition that the participant has no knowledge of the criminal acts, which is exactly what the sentence says. [[Applauds]] Mr. Ábalos, that is exactly what the sentence says, and I have an obligation to ask you: has this - what I have just read here - been read or skipped? Because I would like you to answer this question here. Because you can table motions of censure, you can vote on them, you can make decisions that you think are appropriate and convenient, but what you shouldn't be lying in Congress of Deputies. [[Prolonged applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the sentence does not say or accuse the People's Party of being and creating a system of institutional corruption, it does not say, ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to read the sentence and read it well. What the sentence says is that certain members of the People's Party maintained this system parallel to those responsible for certain companies. That is what the sentence says, and because it says that it does not condemn the People's Party criminally, but civilly, as a profit-making participant for an action that, as the ruling says, the People's Party did not know. So you lied, and you can't come to Congress of Deputies to lie. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Your Honor, if the sentence is the whole basis of your motion, you can already withdraw it because it lacks justification, unless you invent another, which is not so difficult, you can invent anything. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an old story that we have already discussed fifteen times in this House, because you are constantly taking it out despite the fact that it has no relationship with my Government and does not affect the members of the Government. I know these things make your mouths water, because they distract you from your own breakdowns. I recognize you once again - once again, I repeat - that in the People's Party there have been corrupts, yes, yes, I recognize it once again, but the People's Party, which has thousands and thousands of affiliates, is not a corrupt party, even if this disgusts you. [[Applauds]] And perhaps for this, perhaps for this reason, the voters renew their confidence and have given us the electoral victory in the three legislative elections held since we became aware of these facts -2011, 2015 and 2016 - and you have withdrawn your confidence in the three. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is the reality and the rest of them are poached from those that you like so much. Ladies and gentlemen, what this motion of censure pursues is that character so harmful to Spain that I am. It seems that the strength and dignity of democracy, which, according to your opinion, depend only on me, is at stake. According to your dislodged argument, I am the origin of all the evils of the homeland, which will be solved by salm if your candidate gets the confidence of this House. I don't know what rules they use to measure a ruler's confidence. If you are referring to this House, you have just granted it to me with the approval of the General Budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] His answer was to table a motion of censure. You will agree that it is not something very much to be used in a parliamentary democracy. Have you been so upset that the General Budgets of the State were approved in this House? [[Protests]] And if you are referring to the voters, I repeat that you have given me your trust three times in a row, and not because you would stop doing archeology with the lawsuits of corruption; in spite of it. I insist, last time I was given a confidence of 134 seats compared to the 84 that you reaped. That's the truth. [[Applauds]] If we have to measure Spain's credit abroad, we have managed, not without effort, to recover our country's image of the wreckage caused by the government we replaced. It has been my Government that has restored confidence in Spain to our European partners, to international investors, to rating agencies and, above all, to the Spaniards themselves; and that is the case even if I have to say so, but I am the one who is currently occupying this rostrum. Will it have anything to do with this that Spain is alarmed because when you open your mouth the risk premium is fired? Maybe. It has no doubt to do with the fact that this Government has received a country sunk into ruin, unemployment and despair, a country that, with the efforts of all, has restored well-being, growth and employment. That is, against what you claim, we have returned to the Spaniards the right to trust themselves and the opportunity to fight for the future that you had taken away from them. That's how you build the confidence that's troubling you so much. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, after five years of recession - five - the Spanish economy has grown almost as many, at the head of Europe, and this growth results in the creation of half a million jobs per year since 2014. What confidence are you talking about, Mr. Ábalos? What is the damage that my Government is doing to this country? What is the harm they want to interrupt for the benefit of the Spaniards? Mr Ábalos, since the Lords of Podemos tabled a motion of censure last June - which you are not even original in this - from then until today 570,000 jobs have been created in Spain, more than 1500 a day. Is that the damage that my Government or I are doing to Spain? Is that what your candidate comes to demolish? [[Applauds]] Your Honor, look for a more serious justification, no one believes these scarecrows of 'Black Spain' with which you try to justify the unjustifiable. Spain has problems, like any other country, but it is in an incomparably better situation thanks to the efforts of the Spanish, but also thanks to the policies of my party and the management of my Government, which has nothing to do with what you did with our country. [[Applauds]] However, let's look at things on the other hand, what can we gain from the change that you offer? Is the Socialist Party, the arbiter of cleansing in this motion of censure, clean? Mr. Abalos, can you boast of incorruptions? Mr. Ábalos, do you have any defendants in your ranks? [[Rumors]] Mr. Ábalos, have you been opened to any militants of your oral trial party? Mr. Ábalos, do you have any convicts in your ranks? Mr. Ábalos, is there anyone from your party in jail for corruption? Mr. Ábalos, when is the ERE judgment coming, are you going to put a motion of censure on yourselves? [[Prolonged applause]] Mr Ábalos, what do you have to tell us about box B of the Socialist Party of the Valencian-PSOE country and that of the Bloc, your partners? Mr Ábalos, are you in a position to assure us that you and all your colleagues have come to the elections without any illegal funding? [[Applauds]] Mr Ábalos, are you in a position to explain to us here why there are four courts investigating the Socialist Party of the Valencian Country for crimes of prevarication, continued documentary falsehood, misappropriation of public revenues and electoral offences? Are you going up to this rostrum to explain it? Mr Ábalos, will you explain to us in this House - I hope you will - the decisions made by the Socialist Government in its day to hire companies that then paid the Socialist Party election expenses? Are you going to do it? [[Applauds]] Mr Ábalos, can you explain to this House what moral authority you speak to? Which one? With what moral authority? Are you Teresa de Calcutta, Mr. Ábalos? [[Laughter]] Your Honor, I am not going to answer these questions that I have just asked because I am not the right person. In any case, I suppose many know the answers. Nor am I going to set up competitions, but I do intend not to be fooled by the Spaniards. Mr. Ábalos, corruption, as you know very well because you have it very close, there are everywhere. He knows no neighborhoods, no flags, no doctrines. I'll tell you what I don't know! [[Laughter]] To come to give lessons you have to be able to give them; if not, you better shut up. [[Applauds]] Well, let's drop that and let's go to the important thing for the Spaniards. What do you offer to improve the current situation in a growing country, create jobs and have just approved its budgets? When you raised this motion of censure you had only one clear idea, only one, important, but it was one. The idea was that the president had to be Mr. Sanchez. That's where we could get to! From there, we'll see. Are you going to rule? With whom? For what? With what program, and for how long? Is that what Spain needs? Is that what you offer to regain the strength and dignity of democracy? So you're trying to restore the confidence that, they say, has lost its luster? I do not know what the candidate will tell us later; I am looking forward to hearing from him and those who, after imposing his conditions, are willing to accompany him on this reckless initiative, turning the president into something like a warrant, that is, a person who, on behalf of another person, performs a job or mission on which he has no decision-making power. - That's what the dictionary says. Ladies and gentlemen, are there so many of Mr Sánchez's emergencies to put us all to such carelessness? Are there so many emergencies? Let's be serious. The real reason for this motion, the real one, is not that you are in a position to improve things - that no one believes - nor any sentence, or that you are champions of the fight against corruption. What is the real answer to this motion that seeks protection in a sentence but does not find it? This motion knows no other reason than Mr Sánchez's affronts, and the whole House knows it, not even surprising, because it is a gesture more of a monotonous and homogeneous series. Since he lost the elections in 2015 he has done nothing but try to amend the plan to the voters. That's what he's been doing since 2015. [[Applauds]] He did not mind paralysing the country in 2016 for almost a year so as to prevent it from ruling what the Spaniards wanted it to rule because it had won the elections. He tried with Podemos, he tried with Citizens, he didn't get the two of them together and, in the end, he had no way out but to resign, and I no longer enter into any other kind of events that are in everyone's mind. It has maintained its not all year 2017, without exception to its support for the implementation of article 155 of the Constitution. The last is not because of the debate on the General Budgets of the State. To this contradictory desire is added the concern that Mr Sánchez is aroused by the fact that he does not advance in the polls. His candidate - his own - has internalized what most Spaniards have long thought, that he will not reach the Presidency of the Government for a victory in the ballot box. [[Addressing Mr. Ábalos Meco]] In fact, you argued to justify the motion before the executive committee meeting the risk that I would anticipate the elections. I don't know, but you may have thought that a stroke could solve all your problems at once. This is the true justification for the motion of censure which Mr Ábalos has come to defend with more disqualifications what arguments. - I admit you didn't have it easy, Mr. Ábalos. That's right, he's flattered his intervention with that talent that I'm not tired of commending. Can we not fail to call this opportunism? In short, Your Honor, as I said before, the sentence is an excuse that is used to hide the true reason for the motion, which are Mr Sánchez's emergencies and his little confidence in ever reaching the Presidency of the Government as we have others, i.e. winning an election. [[Applauds]] This is reasonable when we talk about democracy. Well, ladies and gentlemen, nothing in this life is free, everything has a price, and irresponsibility as well. The day the motion of censure was announced the stock exchange fell in Spain, the companies lost 10 billion in stock market capitalization, today we are already at 26.5 billion, and the risk premium was shot over 100 points, rising 14% in a single day, and it was not by chance. It was Mr Sánchez who spoke about his eventual new government and all the alarms were lit. They did, moreover, without taking a single measure, what would not happen if they started taking them!; definitely puts the hair at the top. [[Applauds]] And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards - the rest of the mortals too - still remember the destructive capacity of the policies that Mr Sánchez supported. I have repeated to the satisfaction that the Spanish situation is good but not irreversible. Mr Sánchez wants to give me the reason, it was enough for him to speak to prove that everything can be brought down, it was enough for him to lay out his intentions for everything to be filled with red lights, and red lights are something more than an image, because they can become bigger problems. We should not forget that we are in the twenty-first century, in which the economy is global. We have seen in Catalonia how easily companies move when they do not find a favourable environment. The welfare, the employment, the pensions, the future of our children form a very fragile material that does not suit jokes or frivolities. The challenges ahead are not small, they are not the multiannual financial framework of the European Union, the Brexit or the future of the economic and monetary union that we are beginning to discuss in Europe, and no one is going to wait for us to make elections or for what you intend to do. Nor are the major national objectives before us smaller. How much more can autonomous financing, city council money and future pensions expect? Ladies and gentlemen, I think - and I say so - that they present a motion of censure when things are going well, when stability, time and certainty are the most needed. They do so without stopping to consider the consequences for the Spaniards, regardless of the external image of Spain, forgetting the situation of Catalonia; everything goes to a third plane when it comes to their ambition. But these things end up paying off. The Banco de España has not long recalled that the impact of the uncertainty in Spain in 2016 was 0.4 percentage points on GDP growth, 1 percentage point on consumption growth and 2.4 percentage points on investment growth. Ladies and gentlemen, does this motion of censure, regardless of its objectives, strengthen or weaken the consensus that requires the defence of the Constitution? Does Spain's confidence in the world benefit or impoverish? Does it increase or reduce the influence that extremists want on things in Spain? Curious way to protect the Spaniards by perjuring them in all fields. But we'll talk about this when we get your government program exposed. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the futile attempt to justify something that is no more than an exaltation of falsehood; a sign of that eagerness that we already knew to take advantage of any loophole to take a shortcut to power. In short, an exercise of opportunism at the service of a personal ambition. They call this a firm, serene, constitutional and state response. They say that - I suppose - because it sounds good, and it does sound good, at least until their supports are known and it becomes a pure contradiction, an impossible logic or, if they prefer, a tomato of hair. We'll see as soon as we hear from some of those who support him. For now, nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u8	Thank you very much. At the turn of the reply, I have the floor, on behalf of the signatories, Mr Ábalos Meco. Mr. ABALOS MECO: Mr. Rajoy, I'm not going to extend much... [[Rumors]] But if you want... even though I think it's worse for you, I'm longer. I don't have a problem, because I'm already... However, I do not want to bother you beyond what is strictly necessary. It is clear that, after hearing your intervention, Mr Rajoy, we are in different universes. It is impossible for you to give me any reason, although I have not expected it at any time, because it would be like a revelation and I do not expect that impact. I know we have no reason or reason for you. What else was he going to tell us, that we're right, that this definitely fits, that he fell off the horse? It's normal; I get it too. You understand my role and I understand yours; exactly the same. The problem is that it does not bring us anything new, that there is no effort even in originality. I'd say something like adjusting to the times, to the latest news. No, this is a message anchored in the years. It's the same thing, it's the denial of reality; it's not wanting to assume an uncomfortable reality and it's, of course, telling others that they want to extract some consequence from reality that, on top of it, bother - don't bother me with this, that this doesn't work for me. 'Stop... with the ball.' But it's just that we're not the same as yesterday. Nor is it easy to approve. Here we are talking about a judgment, of what establishes a representation of a power independent of the State, which has as much respect as this one we are in. We're talking about a sentence and I, abusing your patience, have read parts of the sentence... [[Several Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: Part!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u9	Quiet. [[Several Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: We must read it in its entirety!]] Quiet. Mr Ábalos Meco: Ah, read 1600 pages! [[Rumors]] Well, tell me what part you want me to read, put on... the ones that are good for you? [[Laughter and applause]] I have made the effort to read to you, abusing your patience, the extracts of the judgment on which the motion is based. You have asked me a number of questions and at that rate I have not been able to take notes, but you have said that you are not the right person to do so. [[Several Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: Ahhh!-Laughter]] For I am not the right person to answer either; that is the problem, because it raises facts that exceed the responsibility that I may have had. [[Several Members: Ahhh!]] I'm not the secretary general of the PSOE. [[Rumors]] I'd be happy to help you, but the problem is I haven't been in the year, but ask me what you want. Still, I take the defense of the good name of our party. We've never had a sentence like this. We have no public office to tell him to leave, because he has already done so. [[Applauds]] We don't have any cases like that. We, for the cases you raise, have a scrupulous follow-up procedure and an ethical code, and we do not have to stop anyone in arrears. We don't have to be texting him back up. Don't compare, because it has nothing to do with it. [[Several Members: Nooo]] Moreover, we act against that; we stand as an accusation and have been asked to return everything and, of course, we do not sympathize with or protect them. The problem is not that you have one or a thousand cases, the problem is that the organization itself has been financed like this. The problem is that that has a consequence in the fair and competitive election game. That's different. It has nothing to do with it. Now, if you mean it's all a disaster... [[A Member: And in Valencia?]] From Valencia, what will you tell me if I don't have anything to do with it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u10	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Ábalos Meco: Now, as a Valencian... It's like I'm asking you about the windmills. But what do you say to me? You think I'm gonna get into this? [[A Member: Yes, yes]] Well, no. And I'll tell you why, because that's what you want. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Mr. ABALOS MECO: But with something so upbuilding that they can do it from their seats, as they are doing now, go! But you, Mr. President, you should be above this, man. What do you take advantage of our democracy by saying that there is nothing to blame them for all doing the same? But do you find that image of Spain upbuilding? If you're still going to say it's part of our cultural heritage! Man! What advantage does that have? [[Applauds]] Because that's not that it affects us, because now another group comes out and it's going to say the same thing. The problem is that that affects the image of Spain, which you say you serve. I don't know what he gets out of it! I believe that in these matters the most important thing in order not to harm the rest, but the whole of the country that has nothing to do with it, is to narrow the responsibilities well and to delimit them well. In any case, he said on one occasion that you were a predictable man - I remember - and it has been predictable. But also, within that predictability that you offer, we clearly knew that yours is not to call elections. We knew perfectly well that yours is to endure, to endure. The others will give in, the others will fall; it is even part of a virtue of his that ability to face this. Therefore, since the desperation of the assumption of responsibilities, that it was going to open up other times, we obviously had nothing left but to provoke their reaction, and to do so in a demanding way as we are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about judging the Socialist Party, it will have occasion when we govern, it will have many occasions, it has already done so with our previous president, Zapatero. You have already had the opportunity to ask for a lot of demands, to demand a lot, and you will have your party again, fortunately, because we want this democracy to have many years ahead. [[Applauds]] You will have it again, and then you will have to ask for the same responsibilities. It is now up to us, because you are sitting there and therefore the opposition has to exercise this instrument of control; it has it, and it is not to be received that the Government is calling the opposition to account for things that have nothing to do with the meaning of this House or with the powers of the House. [[Applauds]] If you believe that spreading the stain of your corruption over the whole country is good for this country, if that's your way of loving this country, it says a lot of what they care about. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u12	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ábalos began his second speech by saying that he was not going to talk much. I guess I didn't have much to say or brilliant arguments to make to this debate. In any case, I do have to admit that you have kept your word. I thought: You won't talk much, but you will apply that 'good if short twice good' thing; but there has been nothing good in your speech, Mr Ábalos. All he has done is say absolutely nothing, except that he did not give him time to take notes of the questions I asked him in this House. [[Applauds]] He has also informed us that he did not know everything about the financing of the Socialist Party in the Valencian country or that of the Bloc. Of the EREs he knew absolutely nothing. He really is right about that, because the one that was in the aid of the EREs and the financing of the Socialist Party of the Valencian Country, was me! Just as it was in the cases of Pozuelo and Majadahonda of the sentence to which reference has been made earlier. [[Applauds]] He has also made an effort to explain to us that they were forceful in the fight against corruption. That's why on May 11, 2018, twenty days ago, he was in solidarity with two people - whose names I'm not going to give, but who are currently being tried in EREs - to show them their support and personal affection. That is how you are strong in the fight against corruption. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do have a few things to say because I can give reasons and arguments - you do not, and have been accredited here, but I do -; then I will speak as long as the President of this House permits me. You have given no answer to any of the questions that have been raised to you, to any of them. Everyone in this House is trying - I'm sorry for the expression - to slip away when there is something that is not right for you, but it is that yours has been something truly remarkable. He has not responded to anything at all, and he has not responded at all because he has nothing to say, because no reason or argument can bring forward the motion of censure here. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I believe that what you have done today is very meritorious, I really tell you. I was also the leader of this party and held a similar responsibility to that you hold in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We always have the hardest things to do. I suppose someone has to do them, but what they have done to you today cries out to heaven, one more proof that that gentleman cannot be president of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have been absolutely unable to demonstrate the opposite of what I said here in my first speech. The sentence does not condemn the Government of Spain, its President or any of its members, it does not condemn any member of the People's Party, and the sentence does not include any criminal convictions against the People's Party. That's exactly what the sentence does. In short, the whole justification for his motion of censure is built on the basis of an enormous manipulation of a sentence which, I repeat, is not firm and also has a particular vote. I'm not going to talk about the sentence anymore because I've already said everything I had to say, that it was important, and no one was able to beat me here. It is the truth and you know it, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to remind you of one thing now. A motion of censure was tabled here a year ago by Mr Iglesias. Mr. Ábalos then intervened and said that they did not support her because all that Mr. Iglesias said already knew for years until the little ones. And now we are presented with this motion for the same reasons that the little ones knew at the time, for the same reasons that Mr. Iglesias presented it for. [[Laughter]] What is the difference between these two motions? That in the previous one the candidate was Mr. Iglesias and they were not going to vote for him; now you are, they will have to vote for him. [[applause]] So you know what you have to do, Mr. Iglesias, although, frankly, I don't recommend it to you; it's better not to be president of the government like that. [[Laughter]] Well, this which seems anecdotal is what explains the key and the true reason for this motion of censure, which in my first intervention I described as Mr Sánchez's troubles. Mr Sánchez wants to be President of the Government, that is the case; he is also in urgent need. And the best way to be president of the government and to make that compatible with urgency is to do so in this way, as you are proposing today, without appearing in the ballot box is not going to happen what we are all thinking. Of that he is fully aware, he knows that in the ballot box he will never win; that is something he knows and we all know it, even the little ones of Mr.Abalos, and that is why he escapes from the people. In fact, it has twice been presented to the general elections. In the first, in 2015, the PSOE achieved the worst result of its history and in the second, in 2016, the PSOE achieved the worst result of its history. Well, that's the reason for the motion. [[Applauds]] It's his ER. Everything else is irrelevant, they only count their emergencies and the emergencies explain everything we're living in these days. It is a motion presented in haste, with a text that has not been drafted precisely by a professor of literature - you read the text of the motion - and I do not mean that it is attributed to Mr Sánchez, I do not have so much bad grape ; a motion run over, untangled, impractical and mellow. [[laughs]] This is the motion that is before us today, a motion that is the result of the haste, and those has led to the lack of time to measure the consequences of their decisions. With what supports is he going to rule? What's the big deal? Minor issues. How long? This is what matters! In what situation is Spain left? It's irrelevant! Is uncertainty generated or not? Okay! What's going to happen to the budgets? That doesn't interest anyone! The risk premium, what is that? That's all irrelevant. The only important thing here is to get Mr. Sánchez here, of course. To rule is equal to him; he can rule with Mr. Rivera, he can rule with Bildu, he can rule... Man, I hope not with us. [[Laughter]] In any case, I'm telling you that we're not going to rule with you if this motion comes out in the end. And this I am saying, ladies and gentlemen, is not my occurrence, it is not an argument that I bring here and that I have thought about it for a long time; that has been said by you. If we do not make it clear that the PSOE has nothing to do with independence either by active or passive, we in Extremadura are killed, and I have to say it. End of appointment; Mr Fernández Vara. Pedro Sánchez cannot be president of the Government of Spain with the permission of the independenceists. End of appointment; Mr. Lambán. With eighty-five seats there's no doubt, we've been sent to the opposition. End of appointment; Mrs. Díaz. My opinion is that a Frankenstein government, as Rubalcaba would say, is neither good nor possible. End of appointment; Mr González. No one's thought of forming a government with Mr. Tardà and Mr. Rufian - for God's sake, this is not mine - ; we have nothing to talk to them, nothing to talk to! [[laughs]] End of appointment; Mr. Borrell. Of course, I do not contemplate an alternative in which the PSOE explicitly or implicitly deals with the independenceists - it says explicitly or implicitly -. Those who want to break the country cannot be part of a future project for the country. I'm sorry, Mr. Simancas. End of appointment. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] I trusted Sanchez and soon began to realize that we had chosen a bluff. End of appointment; Mr. Bono. I do not trust that Pedro Sánchez can ever bring the PSOE to power - Mr Bono -. Only from the imposture can one pretend to rule with eighty-five deputies a country of 45 million inhabitants. With that you can get to La Moncloa, but not rule. End of appointment; Mr. Bono. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one more. January 2018. Catalan independenceists cannot under any circumstances be allies of us or for a motion of censure. End of appointment; Mr. Ábalos. [[Several Members: Bravo!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, what else does Mr Sánchez give him, what else does he give him not to have any other argument than the corruption of some of the people who were in the government party years ago, forgetting their own. For him, minor issue, isn't it, Mr. Sanchez? How much less will it do with the new Government. This is irrelevant. What are you going to do with the new government, apart from repealing what we did to those who were able, with the help of the Spaniards, to get Spain out of the crisis, to grow again and to create jobs again? But all of that is less for Mr. Sanchez. Here the only important thing, the only relevant thing, the only thing Mr Sánchez really wants is to reach out to, whatever, whoever and for whatever. You will understand that there are some who do not point to this. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and from the members of the Government, on their feet]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u14	Quiet. The next candidate for the Presidency of the Government has the floor, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u15	Thank you, Madam President. I stand before this House as a candidate for the presidency of the Government of Spain on the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to which I thank, and in compliance with the provisions of Article 113 of our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the first paragraph of Article 1 of our Constitution states that Spain is a social and democratic State governed by law; a State that advocates freedom, justice, political pluralism and equality as the highest values of its legal system. I would like to begin my speech, ladies and gentlemen, by claiming the validity of the Constitution that the Spanish gave us forty years ago, in 1978; by claiming their moral strength, which rests on a text that was born from the consensus between different political forces that we had opinions and visions about our very diverse society. That Constitution has offered our country the greatest period of political stability in its history and is the key to our democracy. I would like to invoke the letter, the value and the validity of the spirit of our Constitution and to do so, in addition, on behalf of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, an organization that has governed half of the 40 years of our democratic period. I am doing so on behalf of your parliamentary group, which today, in its power of the opposition leader, gives a way out, offers a constitutional response to the institutional crisis caused by the current President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion of censure is a consequence - and it has already been said here by Mr Ábalos - of very serious facts - I insist, very serious facts - that they have repeatedly shaken public opinion to the punch of images that cause shame, disbelief and indignation. Images of political and institutional discredit that require a strong response from this House, from the 350 Members present here, if we are to - and that is our purpose - regain the value and the very meaning of politics. This motion, ladies and gentlemen, is born of the Constitution itself as a logical mechanism of censorship and the demand of political responsibilities from this Parliament to this Government. Therefore, he is born of the inability, of his inability, Mr Rajoy, to assume in the first person the political responsibilities that all Spain and the majority of this House demand from him after the knowledge of the judgment of the Gürtel. [[applause]] Political responsibilities that would be automatic in any democracy homologable to ours. In the form, however much you try to question it, this motion emanates from article 113 of the Spanish Constitution as a legitimate tool that political groups have to demand, as I said before, responsibilities from the Government. But what is important is the substance, and in essence this motion is born of the evidence that there is no other way to defend the prestige of institutions seriously damaged as a result of the pronouncement of justice last week, starting with the presidency itself of the Government of the nation. A judicial pronouncement that includes demolishing assertions about the very figure of who today holds the office of President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, at this very serious moment of institutional crisis, of social crisis, of economic crisis, the greatest irresponsibility that can be committed would be that of not presenting this motion of censure against those who deserve a clear political reproach on the part of this House. [[Applauds]] Not only would it mean circumventing our own responsibility, that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for not using a tool that is absolutely constitutional and therefore legitimate, but because never before in our democracy a motion of censure, I would dare to say and with respect to the rest of the parliamentary groups, such as the one we are debating today, had been so necessary for democratic hygiene. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption acts as a solvent and deeply harmful to any country. It dissolves the trust of a society in its rulers and consequently weakens the powers of the State. But it is also a root attack on social cohesion on which the coexistence of our democracy is based if the feeling of impunity for the magnitude of the facts being investigated and the logical slow response of justice joins the inability to assume the slightest political responsibility for the actors concerned. Corruption undermines faith in the rule of law when it encamps at large or there is no political response according to the entity of the damage that occurs. And ultimately, corruption destroys faith in institutions, and even more so in politics, when there is no firm reaction from the ground of exemplaryness. The ruling of the National Court, made public on 24 May last, on the Gürtel case, and even more so the absence of an answer from the executive branch which intends to profile itself again, once again, in the face of the gravity of the facts already proven by the justice system, would not allow, as I have said before, more exit than the immediate resignation of the President of the Government in any democracy comparable to ours. For this reason, and at this point, I would like to stress that the person who is activating this motion of censure is today the President of the Government of Spain. It's you, Mr. Rajoy, who brought us here. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this scenario can change at this very moment. Mr Rajoy, this debate, in this very second, can come to an end. I will ask you a question, Mr. Rajoy: Are you willing to resign? Are you willing to resign today, here, now? [[Rumors]] Dismiss, Mr Rajoy, and it will all be over; you will be able to leave the Presidency of the Government by your own decision. [[Applauds]] Are you going to resign, Mr. Rajoy? Or will he continue to cling to office by weakening democracy and weakening and devaluing the institutional quality of the Presidency of the Government? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u16	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the Socialist Parliamentary Group that activates this motion of censure, but it is you, Mr Rajoy, President of the Government, in your obstinacy to hold on to office until the last consequences, whatever it costs, who suffers - our democracy - who assumes the true authorship of this motion, of which, more than your addressee, you, Mr Rajoy, are your true proposer. So resign, Mr. Rajoy, your time is up. Dismiss; resign and this motion of censure will have ended today, here and now. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: No!]] And it is the absence of that answer that motivates the censorship I ask of the 350 Members who are in this House about a President who has made the decision, again, to ignore common sense rather than to leave on his own initiative. It is here today, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment that you must give an answer that admits only two alternatives: the continuity or censorship of Mariano Rajoy as President of the Government. And this is the moment when your vote, ladies and gentlemen, compromises your word, especially that of those who said they were coming to regenerate the democratic life of this country. Before the whole House, the image of a president who opts for the worst of the answers, which is to entangle himself in the position held by the weight of a fragmented House, with parliamentary groups whose interests are difficult and complex to marry - that is, of course - and which the Spanish Government itself has tried to widen precisely to perpetuate itself in power. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, it has been a long time here, so long that your only tenure in office weakens our democracy. Anyway, you ask questions and so do we. What else has to happen, Mr. Rajoy? Is not the content of a judgment recognizing that your word as a witness no longer deserves credit for justice? Is it not enough for your party to be condemned as responsible on a lucrative basis for the manoeuvres that they find to have gone to the general elections? Is it not enough that in the same week that we know of this sentence, your own parliamentary spokesman until 2008 has been imprisoned for alleged corruption crimes as serious as money laundering or cohabiting? Is it not enough, Mr Rajoy, with the accumulation of more than nine hundred public posts charged with corruption, including deputy presidents, deputies, senators, autonomous councillors and mayors? Is it not enough that twelve of the former ministers with whom you shared Mr Aznar's cabinet as President of the Government are investigated, prosecuted or imprisoned? Isn't it enough for three former ministers of your own government, Mr. Rajoy? Isn't it enough that nine former autonomous presidents of the People's Party are? Is it not enough for your party to be more investigated, prosecuted and convicted than any other political formation in the European Union? What else has to happen, Mr Rajoy, so that you understand that your stay at the head of the Presidency of the Government is harmful and is a waste, not only for the country, but also for your own party? Does our country deserve to be left with the sentences that are falling, as Congressman Ábalos has said before, for countless pieces of corruption that supposedly affect the party you lead? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] It is you, Mr Rajoy, who provokes this motion of censure. Gürtel, the papers of Bárcenas, the box B, the contracts of the Generalitat of Valencia, the visit of the Holy Pontiff, Fatur, the plot AENA, Emarsa, Púnica, Lezo, Brugal, Over, hard drives are names that, unfortunately and to the shame of our democracy, are part of the collective memory of a country that is tired of the serial of corruption and that portray a time from which to pass page; a page that has a culminating moment, in our opinion, in the image of which you were protagonist only ten months ago, on July 26, 2017, when for the first time in the history of our democracy the president of the government of the nation in office had to appear as a witness before the National Audience to testify to his version of the cases of irregular financing that affect your party. That image, ladies and gentlemen, which devalues the institution to which Mr Rajoy now represents, was, in our view, in itself a sufficient reason for his resignation. This was made clear by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, of course, also in my case as leader of the opposition. Now, through the facts proved in this judgment, ladies and gentlemen, we know that you were not only a witness in that case; we also know that you do not even deserve the consideration of being a credible witness. Your answer, Mr Rajoy, your reaction to the ruling of the National Court is not only alien to the common sense that you proclaim so much, it is an affront to the position you hold. His answer, or rather his non-response, is not worthy, and is therefore the last resort to the motion of censure put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. A response, I insist, constitutional, logical and due to its inability to be part of the solution and to engage against wind and tide to be part of the problem. That solution, Your Honor, is called democratic regeneration and you have made it very clear with your actions that you cannot be part of it. For the sake of the country, democracy and also your own party, Mr Rajoy, you should have resigned. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make - as Mr Ábalos has done - a special mention of one of the most valuable links in our social and democratic rule of law. This link is made up of a small group or a small large army, rather than honest men and women who do not let themselves be intimidated by pressure and who devote their work to public service from the judiciary, from the prosecutor's office or also from the State Security Forces and Bodies; it is the public servants who fight small daily battles against those who use procedural devices, against those who manipulate institutions to pave the way for impunity; it is those who do not give in to blackmail or pressure; it is those who do not let themselves be intimidated and carry out essential work for the social and democratic State of law. This country, ladies and gentlemen, has much to acknowledge the immense work of those who raise the last dam of containment at the service of democracy, the strength and the cleanliness of the institutions. It is the secretary of the city council who did not look elsewhere before that dossier that revealed the stench of corruption; it is the prosecutor who works conscientiously and methodically, outside the subtle or express pressures that arrive from other instances; it is the research group of the State Security Forces and Bodies, able to unravel a swarm of bank accounts, of societies interposed, to follow the track of the money in tax havens where the stolen money is piled up, while the citizenship suffers the cuts and the precariousness of his Government; it is the judge who resists the dilatory maneuvers that seek to invalidate the monumental work of summaries built with dedication, effort and many renunciations, not only professional and economic, but also personal, invoking invented nullities, Mr Rajoy, law frauds to overthrow entire causes or using in many cases, as did the People's Party itself, the figure of the particular accusation to put on the street the investigations. Today, when Spain faces very similar challenges to the rest of the European Union, to challenges of extraordinary magnitude that cause some to fall into the temptation to reduce what this country represents and embodies exclusively to symbols, I would like to invoke the genuine civic patriotism of those men and women who strive to fight corruption, in many cases by acting up to their own professional careers and assuming a very bitter personal and professional cost. [[Applauds]] There is, ladies and gentlemen, an immense flow of civic patriotism in which they strive to support the foundations of the rule of law based on work and quiet dedication, from the fulfilment of what they understand as a civic duty and an ethical obligation, assuming as their own the task that is now lacking in which, because of their position, more would have to be subject to the imperatives of exemplaryness and also of responsibility. I include in this relationship - which is not intended to be exhaustive - those who have fulfilled their civic obligation not to shut up in the face of the ravages of corruption, not only public servants, but anonymous citizens who, even from the political militancy in their own ranks, Mr Rajoy, did not shut up in the face of shame and suffered ostracism and contempt for it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u18	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address expressly to each and every Member of this House, to the 350 Members of this House, and to each and every one of you, to all the citizens you represent, to a citizen who today, regardless of how he thinks or how he votes, regardless of his ideological loyalties and political affiliations, is expecting from you all the exemplaryness that is incapable of embodying today's President of the Government, someone who prefers to take refuge in the trench of a position that occupies from the solitude of the parliamentary group that supports him and that is not alluded to, despite the more or less explicit censorship that all the parliamentary groups in this House - except one - have been developing over the last few days, especially after the Socialist Parliamentary Group formalised this motion of censurement. Your loneliness, Mr Rajoy, constitutes the epitaph of a political time - yours - that has already ended, even if you strive to live in the fiction of a stability in stone cardboard. Your loneliness, Mr Rajoy, stands over the indignation of a country to which your governments have called for enormous sacrifices that have weakened, as a result, its foundations of social and territorial cohesion. Sacrifices that forced belts to be tightened up to asphyxiation by means of a methodical deterioration of public services while his party was weaving complicitys at the stroke of irregular commissions, from wages in envelopes or overpayments. And, what is even more serious - and is credited with the ruling of the National Court -, to go to the polls with an advantage, with a proven economic doping that implies the faithful recognition of the fraud to democracy itself, the manifest finding that the People's Party was participating in the elections being financed irregularly. [[applause]] Mr Rajoy - you referred to this earlier - I resigned from my seat, among other reasons because I always believed that granting it political extension was a mistake that Spain could not afford, that supporting its political leadership meant delaying the inevitable for a while and that the State was therefore weakened in the face of the challenges that had to be faced. Challenges such as, for example, the quality of our democracy, which is now being called into question by its lack of accountability; social cohesion and territorial cohesion, to which I have referred earlier; depopulation; the environmental dimension of the challenge we are facing; gender equality, and of course international projection, the international reputation of a country, which is aggravated by the scandals that follow the party that governs our State today. I kept my word then, however painful those consequences were, among other things that I could not be with you, bearing the honour of being one of more than 350 Members and representing the citizenry in this House. And today I return to the Chamber for three reasons: coherence, responsibility and democracy. [[Applauds]] With the same conviction and from the pain with which I left the seat I now invoke the value of that word given to push this motion of censure on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but also on behalf of all those who consider it time to open up a space for consensus that unites us in the rejection of the corruption of your Government, Mr Rajoy, and for the democratic regeneration whose flag raised many young people, and not so young, in concentrations of 15-M years ago. However, I do not want to make a speech about the avatars that mark this parliamentary term, and I do so on the basis, ladies and gentlemen, of a sincere reflection in aloud to rise to what the citizens demand of us and understand the complex political moment that is going through our country and that demands high eyes. This is a legislature that was born wounded as a result of a government that was wounded, a party that was wounded by cases of corruption that strain and focus political life and public debate over the past few years and that is now facing an announced chapter, out of pure political logic and of which we were overly warned. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be those who are tempted to stir up ghosts of the past to curb the unquestionable moral strength of this motion of censure. In fact, the whole country has witnessed the implementation of this strategy over the last few days, over the last few hours - before the honourable Member Mr Ábalos referred to it - a marked strategy - as the President of the Government has again done today in this rostrum - for the discredit, personal insult and offense of the one who speaks to them and also of my party that we have had to endure during these last few hours and during these last days, a strategy combined with the blackmail to which he attempts to subject this House to offer a flawed stability of corruption against the supposed chaos of democratic regeneration that Mr Rajoy intends to make us believe. Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, one cannot force a country to choose between democracy and stability because there is no greater instability than that emanating from corruption; because corruption is normalized by pretending that nothing has happened here, that one must look elsewhere; because it means proclaiming to the four winds that politics can tacitly tolerate corruption, that it has always been there and that it will always be, and that Spain and the Spanish have to get used to that chronic disease that you intend to cure looking elsewhere. [[applause]] In any case, Mr Rajoy, I assure you that it has not been a surprise - I am not surprised that you resort to these arguments, which of innovators have little - neither of you nor of your members of the government, that this very week in this very house, without any blush, denied the judicial truth. Therefore, and taking into account the background, your offenses, Mr Rajoy - already advance you - have little reach. By the way, you are not going to deserve a reciprocal reply from me on the same side of the tenor. Do not expect from me, Mr Rajoy, any insult in the debate, among other things because, even if you are unable to see it at this point, you are already part of a past time to which this country is about - to - to move on and what is good for Spain is to look to the future without fear. [[applause]] Whatever happens in this debate, ladies and gentlemen, today Spain is beginning to clear the equation of its inexplicable permanence at the head of the Presidency of the Government and it is doing so to open up a time that you are no longer going to be part of; a time to open up consensus that faces the great challenges ahead, that meets the social, environmental emergencies that your Government has never had the will to attend to; a time to morally rearm the social and democratic state of law and to bring the institutions up to what citizens deserve, waits for politics. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this before, this motion of censure is the constitutional response to an institutional emergency, a response led by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party as leader of the opposition and which I accept on behalf of a party that has always lived up to the great challenges it faced as a country, a party, Mr Rajoy, of state, whether in the government or in the opposition, which is present in the executives of ten autonomous communities and in thousands of ruling municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the exceptional circumstances in which this motion is being debated today, circumstances which force us to understand parliamentary arithmetic, which is so complex, as a decisive factor in the performance of the Government that emerges from the success of this motion. The Constitution states that it is essential to link censorship and the alternative government proposal. In short, the constructive nature of this common instrument prevails in democracies comparable to ours and must remain so. I have publicly stated to the media and to the public my will to lead that government, a socialist government, a joint government, a European government, a government that guarantees budgetary and economic stability, thus fulfilling its European duties; a government that will fulfil and enforce the Constitution; a government that will engage in dialogue with each and every parliamentary force, with each and every autonomous government, on its way of doing politics; a government with a clear road map that we will agree with the majority parliamentary groups in this House. [[applause]] First, to restore stability, political normality, which has been violated, shaken, as a result of the lack of political responsibility on the part of the current President of the Government. Secondly, to attend to the country's emergencies. And, third, call for general elections so that the Spanish and Spanish will decide what direction to give the country with their vote. Three phases guided by consensus as a fundamental tool, a Government - my Government - that will understand as one of its main tasks the construction of a consensus to convene the general elections. And until they arrive, a government that guarantees stability in the face of the immediate uncertainties and challenges facing Spain, a government that formulates its proposal based - I would like to underline this - on a programme of moderate, realistic and consensus stability. I would like to summarise that vocation, that stability programme, Mr Rajoy, on four points: institutional stability and democratic regeneration, the first; macroeconomic and budgetary stability, the second; social, labour and environmental stability, the third, and territorial stability as the fourth axis of that stability programme. In the area of institutional stability and democratic regeneration, we start - you know that much better than I do because you live with it every day, every week - from the need to overcome a stage, this stage, which the Spanish Government has opened, in which the Executive has absolutely turned its back on this House. It was not only the first government of democracy that refused to attend a monitoring session convened by the Congress of Deputies, it was not only the government that on many occasions has vetoed the processing of parliamentary initiatives - what I will tell you that you do not know! - but it is also the government that has shown not to comply, when not to despise, with the parliamentary resolutions adopted by the majority of this House, denying them any value. [[Applauds]] The new Government that would emerge from this motion of censure would assume the need to base its action on those measures that throughout this legislature have generated broad parliamentary consensuses, consensuses that are worth exploring in order to understand this time when political plurality obliges us to understand dialogue as an imperative mandate. We have examples of agreements that open up a path that is worth pursuing. This House, for example, has been committed to ensuring the independence of the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation; to restoring the universality of public health, broken by the absolute majority in Mr. Rajoy's past mandate; to ending the most regressive aspects of the law gags; to ensuring that scholarships are a right for students with fewer resources; or to repeal the sun tax, which many collectives and families are also asking for. So we can do it, ladies and gentlemen. And the fundamental reason is that we have reached agreements on initiatives adopted in this House as resolutions, repeatedly ignored by an executive committed to consolidating a legislative work not only scarce, which also, but deeply regressive in rights and which Mr Rajoy raised precisely when he had the absolute majority that he does not have today, measures that clearly summarise an attitude of blocking the agreements necessary for their implementation when the opposition has attempted to process them through legislative initiatives. By the way, I have just mentioned the parliamentary agreement to guarantee the independence of Spanish Radio and Television. Manipulation, Mr Rajoy, is also corruption and in a public environment represents a threat that our democracy cannot forgive. [[applause]] For them, for women who dress in black in defense of freedom, the Socialist Parliamentary Group also presents this motion of censure. [[Applauds]] The Government emerging from this motion of censure will initiate the repeal of the most virulent aspects of the law gag. I pledge to promote the urgent repeal of those articles which were appealed to the Constitutional Court by the Socialist Party and by the parliamentary opposition groups. I am referring to the articles which disproportionately limit, in our view, the exercise of the rights of assembly, demonstration and freedom of expression, the articles which restrict, and much more so, the freedom of information of journalists or the final provision allowing for the expulsion of aliens at the border arbitrarily and without the right to effective judicial protection. [[Applauds]] They are measures of democratic regeneration and the impetus of public freedoms absolutely essential to put an end to a gloomy period in which the work of this House has been constantly hampered by the attitude of an executive committed not only not to do it, but not to let others do it. Mr Rajoy also referred to the scope of the debate on the general state budgets. As I said earlier, the stability programme that I propose to the House is a programme whose second point corresponds to budgetary and also macroeconomic stability. I want to commit myself to this House, first of all, to fulfilling its obligations as a Member State of the European Union. This commitment derives from, and I would like to underline, our will to govern by maintaining the General State Budgets approved by this House and still pending in the Senate. [[Protests.-Laughter.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u20	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a decision I take from the responsibility... [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u22	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u23	...to ensure the governability of our country. [[Protests.-Applause in the banks of the People's Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u25	I did not expect a round of applause from the People's Parliamentary Group, but he is grateful. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u27	The stability programme, ladies and gentlemen, will ensure the maintenance of the General State Budgets approved by this House and still pending in the Senate. It is a decision I take from the responsibility to ensure the governance of our country at an extraordinarily complex time. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] A state party like mine has that obligation in mind, whether in the opposition or from the government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u28	Wait a minute, Mr. Sanchez. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. And I remind you once again that photographs cannot be taken in the Chamber, except for photographers who are qualified for them. Go on, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u29	And let us not abdicate that State responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. We will do so in spite of the Socialist Group's clear opposition to accounts that do not, in our view, address the great outstanding challenges of our country; they do not question a growth model based on precariousness and generating inequality that threatens social cohesion and territorial cohesion today. [[rumors]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, accounts which have also merited criticism from both the European Commission itself and Airef for the obvious risks of non-compliance with the public deficit target in a country like ours, which is still subject to the excessive public deficit procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, as of 31 May, Spain still does not have budgets in place. This should be taken into account, Mr Rajoy, in order to quarantine the appeals that you and your parliamentary group make to stability, with which some - you - who are unable to meet the deadlines, allow themselves to allude to instability as an evil to which they claim to be outsiders, because there is no greater instability than the resulting inability to reach agreements or to live in the hope of budgetary extension, or to fail to fulfil the commitments made in a crucial area, such as that of autonomous financing, to which you have referred, Mr Rajoy. You have been ruling this country for more than six years and you blame the opposition for not having approved autonomous funding. [[Applauds]] In short, this is not our budget, but we are not going to withdraw it on the basis of State responsibility and we are going to focus on the future. [[protests]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time of year this House should be about to start preliminary work on approving the public accounts for 2019. [[Rumors]] If anyone wants a more plausible definition of instability, of non-compliance with constitutional deadlines, I simply think of few examples as clear as this, Mr Rajoy. And together with that, if the House considers it appropriate and if it is in my hand to do so, we will logically tackle the reactivation of our national science and technology system, abandoned by you; we will lay the groundwork for the necessary ecological transition of our economy; we will strengthen regulatory bodies and the defence of competition for the benefit of consumers and users; we will promote a law of energy transition and climate change that will encourage investment in renewable energy; we will lay the groundwork for recovering today's abandoned active employment policies in a country that suffers from long-term unemployment and for increasing the coverage of the unemployed, in particular those over 50 years of age; we will fulfil and implement investments in committed infrastructure and we will fulfil the commitment to implement the Plan to Combat Depopulation, which you approved, also with the consensus of all the autonomic presidents, at a Conference of Presidents more than a year ago and which you continue to fail. And, of course, I do not want to fail to mention the defence in Europe of the interests of our farmers and farmers, who are not, of course, being served by the present government; we will not forget the CAP. Ladies and gentlemen, I have started by saying that the government I propose to this House will be firmly European. Next June - Mr Rajoy has referred to this - an important European Council will be held at which the next steps in monetary and economic integration will be decided. I pledge to appear as President of the Government before its celebration and to build a broad consensus between the Executive and the Legislature to bring a country position to Brussels. In the area of social stability, we have - and I personally have - the conviction that there is a need to deal with emergencies that do not allow the slightest delay, emergencies on which I have the conviction that there is also a common ground capable of guaranteeing consensus in this House that can be translated into concrete measures, logically within the limited margins to which a government is subject in the extraordinary circumstances to which we are confronted. In that regard, I would like to claim what happened in this country on 8 March. This country changed on 8 March, ladies and gentlemen, and did so in such a way that it ended up projecting to the whole world the image of a society that does not tolerate the existence of gender gaps and also that of an equally belligerent society against gender-based violence. Therefore, addressing the fight against wage and employment inequality between women and men will also be a priority target for the Government. [[Applauds]] It is an objective that contrasts with the statements made by some, the current President of the Government, when he said, "Let's not get involved in these things." You remember, don't you? An ode to inaction in an area where discrimination potentially affects half of Spanish society. I believe in this House the need to promote the law on equal pay, as well as a law that ensures gender equality in employment, in access, in the permanence of women, in training and in the internal promotion of women workers in companies, removing all obstacles that prevent and hinder them. I also take it that this House needs to implement and comply with all the measures contained in the State Pact against Gender Violence, all without exception, budget, legislative and government action. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are social emergencies that the government I intend to lead is not going to omit or dilate. We will promote measures to revive social dialogue in order to develop that income pact that they are demanding and trying to implement the unions, and which we logically support, to address the wage dignity of workers. It is also going to be one of the central elements of the political and institutional stability that proclaims this proposal, especially when, ladies and gentlemen, all the indicators reflect the same pattern: the incomes of the labour market continue to decline, our labour market remains trapped in an unacceptable rate of temporality and inequality is opening up to consolidate the figure of the poor worker, the autonomous prisoner of the wheel of precariousness, the small businessman drowned by taxes or the young person unable to be emancipated by the bubble that suffers housing in our country, whether that of property or that of rent. It is essential to address many of these realities, ladies and gentlemen, with the revival of dialogue with the social partners. But it will also be one of the main objectives of this social stability programme to improve the effectiveness of our welfare State in combating poverty and, of course, child poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to rebuild within the framework of the Toledo Pact the broken consensus as a result of the counter-reform adopted by the People's Party Government in the past parliamentary term. [[Applauds]] The recent mobilizations have meant a real bulwark in one of the most sensitive subjects of our welfare model, because it is the pensioners who have opened, from exemplary dignity, the way to defending one of the foundations of our welfare state model. Apart from the need to promote a calm debate on the future of our public pension system, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that citizens have said loud and clear that they do not tolerate setbacks in a matter like this. So I assume that commitment, as I also assume the commitment to regain the universal character of our public health, returning to the people living in Spain the health care from which they were excluded in April 2012. [[Applauds]] In the area of dependency, we face the dramatic legacy of more than three hundred thousand people with recognized rights who receive no service or service from the National Unit System. There is an urgent need for a plan to address this dramatic situation, to reduce the waiting lists of the system and, of course, to comply with the law, with funding in the part of the General Administration of the State, because it is the autonomous communities that are uniquely the autonomous communities presided over by socialist governments that are taking charge, precisely in the lung, of supporting the National Unity System. Ladies and gentlemen, the proponent party of this motion is part of the history of Spain, and particularly of the democratic history of our country. We take with honor the fact that we are the only political force that has ruled in each and every one of our country's autonomous communities over these forty years of democracy. We had a leading role in the legislative development of our Constitution, the main regulatory organic laws of the constitutional bodies and the institutional architecture of our welfare model, and we participated in the development of the autonomous State with the conviction that territorial decentralization, deconcentration of power and democracy have been complementary factors, determining factors in the most fruitful stage of political stability and economic development in our country's recent history. That is why, and because of the role played in these nearly four decades since the adoption of the Constitution, we have always acted with the same loyalty, with institutional loyalty and with a high eye, combining the pride that these acronyms arouse - the acronyms of the Socialist Party - in which we share their idea with the defense of the general interest and with a deep sense of state. Loyalty above all to the State, thereby renouncing the temptation in which the Spanish right - now the Spanish right - has always incurred to make the territorial debate a battlefield in which to resolve partisan interests and electoral interests and to appeal to civic patriotism, which rests on what unites us, without placing the emphasis on what separates us to feed exclusive rhetoric that currently dominates Spanish politics. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth objective of our stability programme will be to restore the bridges with each and every one of the autonomous communities and lay the foundations for normalising relations and initiating dialogue between the Government of Spain and the new Government of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] A request for dialogue that I am also going to extend to the Basque Government, of which the Socialist Party of the Basque Country is also part, and to which I thank for its commitment to stability and coexistence, because I am aware - so did the Lehendakari Urkullu and we have also publicly referred both to the first secretary of the PSC and myself - of its efforts to find solutions and forge consensus in the dramatic hours of the institutional crisis in Catalonia last year. Ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware of the exceptional nature and circumstances of this political moment, circumstances which start, on the one hand, from the inability of the President of the Government to assume the political responsibility that the gravity of the events condemned by the National Court advises and, on the other hand, from the inability of this Government to understand the complexity of a parliamentary map characterized by fragmentation and difficulty in reaching consensus. I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, in the value of the word. With this idea I began my intervention based on both the letter and the spirit of our Constitution, a rule which I do not intend to patrimonialize because in the mere fact of yielding to that temptation - that of the appropriation of symbols belonging to all political forces - lies, in my opinion, the germ of the weakness of the rule of law and of the democratic institutions of our country. Throughout my speech I have reiterated my decision to appeal to each and every Member of this House. I am aware of the inescapable need for this motion of censure as a fully constitutional and therefore legitimate response mechanism under Article 113 of the Magna Charter. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, aware that an opportunity is being opened before this House and deserves to be explored. [[Applauds]] An opportunity to articulate basic consensus in order to give stability to the institutions; to attend to the social, environmental, territorial emergencies long postponed by a government without pulse or political capacity, let us recognize it; and once achieved, to call the general elections so that the citizens decide by their vote the direction to give the country. So, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come, here and now. The decision they must take only admits two paths that are mutually exclusive: yes or no, there are no third paths. Yes to the constitutional, constructive and facilitating response to consensus and agreement; yes to the censorship of corruption, which acts as the real threat to the political and institutional stability of our country; yes to raising the quality of our democracy that is being questioned today. [[Applauds]] Yes or no to a censorship that, paradoxically, would entail a much more serious yes, which is the yes to the permanence of Mariano Rajoy as president of the government. You are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that abstention amounts to saying no to democratic regeneration and therefore there is no middle ground. So I appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to your ultimate responsibility, not to pardon with your vote the false closure of an extension that we long ago had to close in this House. To open a window of hope from the conviction that we can all build a different Spain, with a healthy, strong, exemplary democracy; a country of opportunities for those who went out to the streets screaming with indignation and that today they do not resign themselves to suffering a government stained by corruption. Whoever speaks to you, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group to which I represent in this motion of censure, fulfils the obligation to promote a censure that dignifies our democracy. Do not allow democracy to lose this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, because in victory and consensus for the future lies the hope of overcoming a time when this country and its people want to move on once and for all. Make it possible with your vote. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u30	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u31	Madam President of Congress, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez. Mr Sánchez, as all those present have just seen, has devoted a large part of his speech to reiterating - with the same success as he - the statements made in his first speech by Mr Ábalos. I am not going to go into the details, because that is the debate that I did regularly at the time, but I do want to make it clear, so that it is recorded in the Minutes of the Journal of Sessions, that Mr Sánchez has not given an answer to the three major questions that I raised to Mr Ábalos. If Mr. Ábalos didn't give them an answer, I was hoping that Mr. Sánchez would at least do it. But despite having devoted a large part of his intervention to something that was not appropriate, since his job was to present, according to the regulations and the legislation in force, his government programme, nor did he. He has not responded to the statements I made about the sentence, which is the excuse for bringing this motion of censure. I repeat again, neither has the Government been condemned, because it has not been tried, nor has any who is now a member of the People's Party, nor has the People's Party been condemned. Mr Sánchez has not responded to these claims, as Mr Ábalos did before; and he has not replied, plainly and plainly, because both have lied to this House. Secondly, Mr Sánchez has not responded to something that is also very important. Is there a convicted PSOE militant? Has an oral trial been opened? Is there anyone in jail? Are you going to resign when the ERE judgment is known to the public as a whole? Is your party free of all guilt? I have to take this from you, Mr Sánchez, because that is the fundamental argument with which you intend to blackmail this House because you say to it: Either corruption or me, that I am Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, that can be done on the street at a rally, but one cannot come to one Parliament to make statements and hope that the other side will not require reasons and arguments to prove those statements. Thirdly, Mr Sánchez has made some certainly shocking statements and, with your permission, I will refer to them, and some are, in addition to shocking, very illustrative. Mr Sánchez has again explained to us, then I will return to this matter, how bad things are going, the calamities that the country is suffering, how we are, how many misfortunes are happening to us, forgetting two things that are very important and that it is good that the Congress of Deputies remembers. First, you have ignored where we came from: as a result of the policies that you carried out in your day and that I hope you will not carry them out again in the future! [[Applauds]] Your Honor, forget where we come from, forget the threat of rescue, forget the precarious situation in Spain, forget the economic imbalances, forget the problems of competitiveness, forget the five years in recession and forget that 3 800 000 Spaniards lost their jobs. Now it turns out that the bad situation is what we are living in right now when we have overcome the crisis, when there is no longer a threat of rescue, when we are growing more than Europe and when every year 500 000 jobs are created. You will understand that a candidate for President of the Government who comes here using this sort of argument cannot deserve the support of my group and, if I may, not even yours. [[Applauds]] He comes here, which is why I say that it is also a very shocking statement, to talk about stability. But how can a candidate for the Presidency of the Government who, if he succeeds in his claim, will form the most unstable government in the history of Spain since 1977, which we all know, including those who are going to support Mr Sánchez? How can we talk about stability or consensus, Mr Sánchez? How can you talk about consensus after leaving the meetings to get an educational pact, after boycotting the consensus on autonomous financing that some of us wanted to do because that was what you did in 2009 and after putting all the possible glues in the Toledo Pact? What credibility do you have, Mr Sánchez, to talk about consensus? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in any case the most important thing, by rating in some way what we have heard this morning from Mr Sánchez in this House, is his position on the General Budgets of the State. It is his only programmatic point and this is not only shocking, but it is something truly remarkable and it obviously has to produce that I ask here some questions, because, if I didn't, someone might think that I was in connivance with Mr Sánchez, which is absolutely impossible. Even Mr Rivera doesn't believe it, but to make things clear enough, I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, did you vote against the State's General Budgets? [[Laughter]] I think they did, and they did it enthusiastically because it was a no of 'no is no'. We weren't for any more jokes. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Besides, they seemed awful to you, amazing!, they almost generated hives. That is why I am unable to understand how you will live together with such monstrosity. Look, it's gonna hurt, it could be a nightmare. Besides, they said they were ideological. So, are you going to support the ideological decisions of the government you want to censor? You're going to have to make a great effort. And this, why do you do it? Did you get the enthusiasm now? [[Laughter]] That's good too. Is there any of your possible support that has required you to support and maintain the State's General Budgets? Someone had to ask him. I will tell you: We may have demanded that you maintain the General Budgets of the State. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] That's why we can, when we vote, do it with knowledge of cause and with a huge smile from ear to ear. [[Laughter]] I will explain to you why it was Podemos, because Podemos was very commendable with the General Budgets of the State. [[Laughter]] He said of them: They are the budgets of the social crumbs - well -; the budgets of the scam; they consolidate a model based on extreme inequality and precariousness; it is a budget that causes the social majority to live in the most absolute insecurity; they minimize the welfare state. All this at best, with forgiveness for the expression, they're going to have to eat it with potatoes. [[Several Members: Well, well!-Applause]] No, if in the end we are going to go well to the Citizens' Lords, to us, to the Canary Coalition and to the PNV, we are the ones who vote for the budgets! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Your Honor, any anecdote can be elevated to category. What's behind all this? Well, what I said in my first speech. Here's what it's all about, Mr. Sanchez coming in. Everything else is literature. With whom it comes, what does it matter!: with Podemos, with Citizens, with anyone who is here, all that is irrelevant. The important thing is that it arrives, yes, without going through the ballot box. The program, but who cares about the program! Budgets, even those of the PP! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] This is really what's going on here. Ladies and gentlemen, can anyone take seriously a candidate for the Presidency of the Government who acts like this? [[A Member: No, no]] Because that is the big question that needs to be asked to this House today, and that is the answer you all have to give. I, as I have been in politics for a few years, already know how this is going with the votes, but, in each one's mind, that at least remains clear and that they are absolutely aware of what they are going to do. That's very important. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is already on the network, we have moved from the Frankenstein Government to the Frankenstein programme because there was no other. If the government is Frankenstein, what's the program going to look like, Mr. Sanchez? This is the only point in your program. Who was going to tell us last week that the only point on Mr Sánchez's programme was to carry out the General Budgets of the State, against which Mr Sánchez did his best and impossible not to go out! Hey, what the fuck is this? Do you think we can take this seriously? I, with all due respect, can't take this seriously and I'll never do it. Ladies and gentlemen, think about what you are going to do. I said it the other day in this House: blackmail, corruption or me. Here you have placed the vast majority of Members of this House and the decision you have. I, for what it's worth, believe that I take it seriously; I will give you the general reasons why it seems to me and most of the Spaniards that it is not good that Mr Sánchez is the President of the Government of Spain. I will start with the motion of censure itself. The way in which Mr Sánchez has presented the motion of censure makes it absolutely unrecommended to be a ruler. A motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, is the closest thing to a sudden slowing down in the course of things, leading to a disconcerting leap on what has happened and what can happen in the immediate future. It's like when an imprudent passenger pulls into the subway of the alarm lever and stops the train dry. They're things that even if they're right, look, they can be done anyway. And as well-founded as their reasons would have been, as they were not; and as torn as their proclaimed moral sensitivity might feel, such unthinkable conduct is not justified. Did you know what support you had before you presented it? No, no, Well, that's an irresponsibility. Did you measure the consequences this could have for the Spaniards? No, no, Well, that's another irresponsibility. Did you take into account the delicate circumstances we're going through? Neither. Three irresponsibilitys already. You, who intend to rule, offered a tenacious exercise of imprudence, inopportunity and indifference for the common good and that is not serious, Your Honor. If you think so, you are already giving me the first argument to argue that Spain is not in favour of you being President of the Government. [[Applauds]] It is impossible, ladies and gentlemen, that it is impossible to know what to hold on to with a person who behaves in this way, willing to paralyse public life and put the country at the service of his particular interests. I say the particulars because we all know that even with his party he didn't count, as he did on another occasion. Well, this is the first reason that I put before the House that it is not appropriate to place Spain in its hands. Your conduct in this motion has portrayed you and tells us the truth about you much better than your flourishing program, by calling you in some way, of which now, General State Budgets apart, I will deal with. I will not say that I liked the electoral program that Mr. Sánchez has presented because someone might think that I am a person left with a sense of humor. Mr Sánchez, what he has come here to do is to cover the regulatory process and, of course, he is trying to fill out the paper with his best pieces of paper. That was predictable. In any case, what matters is their purposes, which we also knew because we have heard them in large part on other occasions. He solemnly speaks to us, as he usually does, of recovering normality, social policy, regeneration, Constitution, solidarity, whatever it takes, without forgetting the well-known canteen of taking Spain out of the laudazal in which the evil People's Party put it. In short, to get out of this motion they have filled a role with music that might sound more attractive. Well, it's natural and I have nothing to object to, but it doesn't tell me anything. And it's just that your show is amazing. It's amazing, first of all, because it distorts reality to its convenience; and I don't blame you for it, I say it's amazing. He distorts everything that he can so as to justify his intervention, collects everything that he catches, generalizes without modesty and does not make him ascos to put stains and blurs in the image of Spain, it is urgent to denigrate the Spanish reality to make you indispensable, the same that it is urgent to magnify, to make it very big, until the delirium the corruption of this government to base his purifying initiative, Mr Sánchez. Come on, he needs a dragon to be able to present himself as a Saint George; that's his task: to make a good dragon. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for the Spaniards, our country has nothing to do with what you draw. The more we advance in economic recovery, the more jobs are created, the more corruption is pursued and the better it goes to Spain, the more distance is opened between your speech and reality and the more you need to exaggerate the tone, the disqualification and the imposture. Secondly, your program is amazing because it camouflages your intentions. By the very beautiful and solemn words he uses, we know that where he says'recovering normality' means 'dismantling the whole task of this government' - some examples he has given today - that is, embarking on the path that leads back to the ruin from where we have had to leave. Where it says 'elections when Spain regains order', what should we interpret? The first, which does not intend to summon them while occupying the queue in the polls, seems obvious, and the second, which will take time, gestures for the galleries and a lot of fertilizer to sow votes. Its purposes are summarized in the three-way rule: dismantling, demagogy and waste. It intends to put Spain at the service of its electoral campaign, with the aim of, through the favors that it keeps in the camp and that it calls publicly social politics, calling the elections as soon as the polls improve, which may be a problem, which may never happen. Qualifying this as a government program, ladies and gentlemen, is a way of fooling us. Thirdly, your government program is amazing because it's not up to you. He has just demonstrated this with what he has said about the General Budgets of the State. Does anyone believe that you have signed that you will comply with the General Budgets of the State submitted by the People's Party Government by your own decision? No, it's just not up to you, Mr. Sanchez. It is that this is the problem of the Government that you want to constitute. What confidence, what credibility, what certainty will you generate? It says: we will defend the territorial cohesion and equality of the Spaniards. But for that it depends on your partners, and they will tell us what they think. And that hypothetical government you're talking about about the eighty-four seats can't be held without being backed up, it's impossible. If your candidacy goes ahead, let me ask, because I suppose you would do the same, with whom should we deal with the situation in Catalonia? With you? With you and your partners? No, no, With you and your partners, or will your partners deal with you? Do you sense the smell of absurdity? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That's the problem. Your programme, which we do not know, is worth what your tips authorize or what demands the support that has been sought in your despair, and we have had here today an unequivocal demonstration with the budgets. And all that throws down any speech that we hear, no matter how overwhelming it sounds, Mr. Sánchez. Your program is a pyrotechnic exercise to cover this process. Everyone actually knows that it's not a program, that this is nothing and it will have become smoke before the end of this session. Your program is not clear, to say the least, but who is surprised? You've never spoken clear, you don't have any projects for Spain. I'll tell you more, you can't have it because you're a pure tactical ambiguity. There's nothing concrete about not closing any doors. He has never spoken clearly about anything, he doesn't even always say the same thing about the same thing. It is impossible to know what you think, not today, not at this time, but over the months. The same applies to national, European, economic or social policy. You want everything to go well; I congratulate you, but when you rule you have to choose, and when you choose it is to do some things and not to do others. Some doors open and others close, because everything at the same time is not possible, not even for you. The paper, it is said, bears everything, on the paper it fits everything, and on its, which is wider, it fits everything and, moreover, the opposite. As soon as you speak of a nation as a plurinational State; of a united Spain as well as of the right to decide; of the equality of the Spaniards as of the need to fit some; you want to change the Constitution, but no one knows for what. I've asked you many times, Mr. Sanchez, but I'm like the first day. Your Honor, the laws do not change - it is good to have this clear - with intentions, neither with wishes, nor with dreams; they change with words that form phrases and replace other words that form other phrases, and in that process they change, and much, the contents, Mr Sánchez. It is very simple, but I understand that too many demands seem to those who avoid any concreteness so as not to renounce the freedom to adapt to the moment, which is what they are doing here today. I'm no longer asking for concretions because it would be to claim an impossible one. And inevitable consequence of all this are the bandages you give as the wind blows. It shows a very characteristic plasticity of those who have not needed to commit because they have never ruled, and it is shown as a blank page on which you can write what you want, because it has built-in draft. You certainly think that it is appropriate to be ambiguous, but Spain does not like a veleidoso, inconstant president, who does not speak clearly, because his plans change more than the famous map of the isobaras, Mr Sánchez. Your Honor, I have asked the Spaniards for effort and sacrifice, many times; I have said things that were not nice or popular, but they had to be said and done, and the Spaniards have accepted it. And this wasn't free for me, I paid a price; even sometimes I had to do things that I didn't want to do and that I didn't intend to do, but I had to do it. Don't ask me how many times we have had to do it, it has worked however, but you know it better than I do, because all our sacrifices have been opportunities that your lordship has been able to take advantage of for your demagogy. He has not wasted any occasion to criticize me for fulfilling my duty when that duty was unpopular, nor one, Your Honor; is that called profitism?, I have to go to the dictionary to find out. He has not lost any chance of criticizing me for doing what was right for the Spaniards, he has not lost one, because what matters to you is not the Spaniards, but to drive the government into trouble. Your Honor, in fairness, you have shown no capacity to sacrifice your personal interests or those of your party for the benefit of Spain. If I'm wrong, please tell me, I don't like to miss the truth, I don't need it, I don't need dragons, with your wreckage I have enough. I'll give you an example: remember 2016? Is it okay for you what you played with Spain whole between a month and another month for no more reason than your personal desire to rule against the ballot box, against reason, against convenience? I don't think you think he did it wrong, otherwise, I think he'd repeat it. In fact, it's what you're doing here now, about 2016. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, today you show this once again with your indifference to the circumstances, I mean Catalonia. We are in an abnormal situation, we have had to take exceptional measures, we are far from restoring normality. But none of this stops you. At a time when the whole of Europe is looking at us, you get out with what you just got out. Your honor is very expensive for us, Mr.Sánchez, we had to devote much of 2017 to recovering the arrears that you capriciously imposed in 2016. Now the Spaniards will have to pay for the damage it is causing in the image of Spain, the economy and even the risk premium; it does not yet affect job creation, but, if it insists, it may succeed. Don't you realize, Mr. Sanchez? No, he doesn't. No, because his political daltonism prevents him, of course I speak figuratively. I mean that inability you have to distinguish what's right from what's wrong. For you everything is wrong, you have that flaw in sight and a sequel to it is your famous 'no is no' slogan. How can anyone trust the judgment of a person unable to recognize what he has before his eyes? What political criterion shows who is unable to perceive anything good where everyone around the world appreciates progress, kindness and advantages? Not you, don't you see what everyone sees? Or don't you want to see it? Is it daltonism or is it bad faith? There are some good things in Spain, Mr Sánchez: Institutions work, the economy recovers, inequalities begin to be corrected, jobs are created. For you, however, there is only a black Spain, because it is the only color you perceive. He doesn't know the nuances. I do not deny my mistakes because I distinguish things, I make mistakes, certainly countless - for you, all - but I can correct them because I do not confuse them with the correct ones. You, on the other hand, can't correct yourself, of course, why would you have to? What would you have to correct in the only good thing that you perceive in the world, that you are yourself? Your Honor, it's a little more complicated to rule than to throw soffimes and spread money, more serious than to stick to the water in case the flute sounds, a little harder than to make speeches in case they applaud, more demanding than to sow occurrences and propose adventures, and more responsible than to change for the sake of novelty. A golden rule for any responsible politician - I think it's good that you remember it here today - is to avoid unnecessary demolitions, which requires knowing how to recognize them. Unless you cross through the blinding light of an ideological guideline - and here we know some examples - no one can think of preaching the destruction of things that go well. We'd have to change things, no doubt. Which ones? Common sense says it: the ones that don't work. You say: all because, as you do not distinguish, everything seems wrong. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why the rigidity of your 'no' is arousing alarms and we must understand them, because every time you pronounce it you sound like a threat to consensus, stability and certainty, a threat aggravated by the burden you drag. Your Honor, no one or anything has done as much harm to the Spaniards as the mistakes that piled up in the last legislature of your party in the government. You could have earned a lot of credit if you had said at the time that those misguided ones were wrong and were not going to repeat themselves, but you did not, because you do not see them as mistakes. It would be reassuring to know that you wouldn't do anything to sink us back into that nightmare, but we don't know, because you don't reject it. Why? Perhaps because he feels solidarity with that Pedro Sánchez who applauded from the seat, it is perhaps that solidarity with himself that we call coherence, a coherence that makes it dangerous, because it is a pertinent coherence in the bad. It is not only that his lordship does not reject any of that, it is not that he finds nothing wrong with what they did; it is much worse, he defends it. Do you intend to repeat that, Mr. Sanchez? Have you forgotten the economic mistakes, the well, the deficit, the ruin of pensions, the millions of Spaniards who lost their jobs? If you don't recognize the mistakes, how will you avoid tripping back into them. You would have to start by abjuring all that and the damage caused, but you don't want to, boast of it, and that makes you even more suspicious, boast of that ruin as if it were a model of social policy. If that were your model of social policy we would all do well to protect ourselves from it and from you: 3,800,000 people in unemployment. [[Applauds]] I'm done. If the same motion of censure demonstrates the irresponsibility of the candidate; if we do not even know what mortgages will be imposed on his program, except that which we have known today; if not to demerit hide his true intentions; if he is not able to recognize, despite its gigantic dimensions, all the good that Spain has achieved; if as it is more than proved he never thinks of anything else than in his own convenience; if he shows all the personal and programmatic signs of dragging us into the abyss, what can we say? Since wisdom it is impossible to applaud this motion. And the closer the candidate is to occupy the government, the further away is the confidence of Spain. Your Honor, the Spaniards have said several times that they do not want you in the government; they have said that several times, and there is the root of all their reactions. That's why he's been looking for all the shortcuts until he finds this one. He has been unable to convince the Spanish to vote for him, and we do not know how he has convinced his partners to support him. We do know that it will not be good for Spain, and that is what worries me, not because this matter affects me personally - that I am the least in this matter - but because what you pose - and that is the sad thing about this debate - is a motion of censure for the Spaniards because they did not listen to you in the polls. [[Applauds]] That's what you're proposing. That is your motion of real censure, Mr. Sánchez, the real one. And that's why I'm most concerned, because I'm going to remain Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. President. You have finished your intervention, plagued with disqualifications, insults, as was foreseeable - I don't want to hide it either -,... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u34	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u35	... with a rather surprising statement, and that is that you will continue to be Spanish, which we are pleased about in this House. [[Applauds]] Anyway, I'm telling you, Mr. Rajoy, that's not what this is about. It is not in question whether you continue to be Spanish or not; what is in question is whether you continue to be President of the Government of Spain as of next Friday. [[Applauds]] The question is very clear, very simple. The Socialist Parliamentary Group tabled its motion of censure last Friday as a result of a lack of accountability on the part of the Government and the People's Party. By the way, you always resort to EREs. The two presidents of the Andalusian Junta then resigned and today they are neither senators nor deputies nor presidents of the Andalusian Junta. Follow your example, since what you do is evoke that case. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] The fundamental agenda of this motion of censure is to enforce article 113.1 of the Constitution: that the Government assume its political responsibility. This is what is at stake, whether or not you assume political responsibility. We gave them some time. We let them again assume that political responsibility that they have denied over the past few years and did not do so. They sent the sentence of the Gürtel plot of the National Court, which said the things he said. You presume to win elections, but, Mr Rajoy, I can assure you one thing: the Socialist Party goes to the elections with cleanliness, respecting the rules of the game, something you did not do for decades. [[Applauds]] The agenda of the motion of censure is therefore very clear, very simple: whether or not this House is prepared to assume the responsibility that the President of the Government does not assume, censoring him. It is true that it has rained a lot, Mr President, and you have curiously always referred to my departure from the Congress of Deputies, and not to these months in which we have indeed had the opportunity to share many thoughts about what was going on in our country and even about the political relationship between the leader of the opposition and the President of the Government. In my first speech, Mr Rajoy, I wanted to set out the lines of the debate and I understand that this is very unpleasant, very hard. You come to a House where you will find a reproach, if not a majority from the point of view of the absolute majority, as there has been no President of the Government throughout the history of democracy but, Mr Rajoy, you could have avoided this situation. He could have assumed his responsibility and resigned as President of the Government. [[Applauds]] I repeat that this motion of censure can end here today and now if you resign as President of the Government. Are you going to tell me yes or no? Because that is the fundamental question, Mr President. This has nothing to do with demoscopic democracy, but with a democracy of principles, of convictions, a democracy which is known to be strong in the cleansing of its institutions and in the exemplaryness of the leaders who are at the forefront of them. And, Mr Rajoy, I am very sorry, but you could not continue to be President of the Government after the ruling of the National Court, you cannot continue to be President of the Government. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you more. Unlike even fellow members of the Socialist Party, unlike many of the people who are going to intervene on behalf of the parliamentary groups, I would like it to be recorded here in the House, in the Journal of Sessions, that the People's Party is not a corrupt party. The People's Party is not a corrupt party, Mr Rajoy. The People's Party has militants, councillors, deputies and deputies who legitimately defend their ideas, who defend the honesty of their values, the honesty and authenticity of the model of society they want to set up. The problem is that these same militants, the same deputies and the same councillors are ashamed and abusing cases of corruption that bind the leadership of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I have gone from being a man of state to being the enemy of the state, and in fact, with this tone that you have, Mr Rajoy, little less that you try to trivialize, because deep down with corruption uses the same tone of intervention that you have here: nothing happens, we can look somewhere else because it is not important, corruption is not important, Mr Bárcenas was a gentleman passing through there, there is no box B I will take the words of the secretary general, they are people who do things. Ladies and gentlemen, the trivialization of corruption, the lack of exemplaryness is what is damaging the foundations of democracy, which explains why societies are polarized. [[Applauds]] I say that the People's Party is not a corrupt party, because there is no corrupt party, but there is no party immune to corruption either. There is no party immune to corruption. What needs to be done is to prevent such corruption, act when such corruption occurs and assume political responsibilities when such corruption occurs. We'll see what the judges do about Mr. Chaves and Mr. Griñán. What is evident is that you are no longer political responsible, you are not even militants of the Socialist Party, and you continue to be militant of the People's Party, you continue to be President of the Government of Spain and you should have left that main institution. [[Applauds]] When you speak of passing from state to state enemy, when you say that I am the Judas of Spain, in the background, Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you demonstrate this disease or this evil, which I believe harms you and which clearly harms Spanish democracy, of having a patrimonialist view of the country, of the institutions and of politics: either I or chaos, Mr Rajoy. As the broken joke said: you, Mr. Rajoy, are chaos. [[Applauds]] But I am concerned because we asked for political responsibilities through a motion of censure last Friday formally in the Congress of Deputies. I made a press appearance before the media so that the public could understand the justifications, the motivations of this motion of censure. We were criticized by various media and analysts for delaying our response, because what we wanted, as Mr Ábalos said earlier, was to know exactly what was the response given by the People's Party and the Government of Spain. It was a matter of minutes. Suddenly, knowing that the Spanish right could lose power, that this motion of censure was not a motion of censorship of game, but that it could go ahead, the evils of the Spanish right began to come out, they began to accuse us little less than of phylotterrorists, of vendettas, of breaking Spain, to see who we are going to coalition with and with whom we are going to govern. You, Mr Rajoy, govern with seven parliamentary groups in this House. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Rajoy, have approved general state budgets with nationalist formations. They have used terrorism, they have used the territorial crisis, they have again used the economic crisis or, rather, the evolution of the exchanges when everyone knows it. Mr Rajoy, you take the Financial Times, you take the international media and you don't need to hear the Vice President of the Government say that Mr Sánchez is the cause of the explosion of the risk premium in Spain. But if the risk premium in Portugal has increased more than the risk premium in Spain, and precisely in Portugal nothing has happened! Won't it be for Italy and not Spain, Mr. Rajoy? [[Applauds]] Stop lying. Not everything goes in politics, Mr Rajoy, not everything goes in politics, especially when we are talking about a president of the government who, with his poor management of Bankia, made the risk premium in our country reach the historical maximum of 600 basis points. [[Rumors]] But look, Mr Rajoy, you take the evaluation reports of the financial markets of your own government, of a government agency that is the General Secretariat of the Treasury and Financial Policy, and during these days what you have come to say is that political uncertainty has caused a wave of sales in the Italian public debt, the political situation in Italy continues to penalise the European exchanges. If the increase in the risk premium in Spain were the result of the motion of censure, it would have started from 24 May, and it was not, it has been as a result of the events taking place in Italy. That is why I want to tell the House and I want to emphasise that the government that can emerge from this motion of censure is going to be a European government, it is going to be a government that will comply with European commitments, it is going to be a government that will comply with the public deficit objectives, with the stability programme, and of course it will comply with the general state budgets. You know why? Because unlike you, I do respect the agreements and approvals that are made in this House, I do respect them. [[Applauds]] After listening to you at the press conference in the Council of Ministers - in my opinion an absolutely unfortunate press conference, but well, I was already announcing what we were going to find in this rostrum for you - I would like to convey a reflection to you, Mr Rajoy. Anyway, I don't want to mention that text to Bárcenas, which by the way seems to be nobody in the People's Party, someone who worked simply to call himself Luis Bárcenas and not to be the treasurer of the People's Party, in Mr Rajoy's opinion - at last, these are the things Mr Rajoy has -. Where I want to go, Mr Rajoy, is that with terrorism, the territorial crisis, the fall of the bags, the seven evils, you have not learned anything? Have you really learned nothing after six years as president of the government? In the conversations that you and I, Mr Rajoy, private and public, have you really learned nothing? You, Mr Rajoy, are being victimized by your own strategy as leader of the opposition, using territorial confrontation, using the economic crisis, using terrorism precisely to become president of the government, and right now these dusts, these muds, territorial crisis, Mr Rajoy, socially and politically polarized societies. [[rumors]] In this country, ladies and gentlemen, who has put territorial integrity at risk for the first time since the Presidency of the Government is his displicity and his inability to address the challenges facing the country ahead. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Rajoy, I am not going to contribute to the rift in this debate; perhaps I will highlight the double measuring rod of your dialectics, your thinking, your opportunism in parliamentary oratory. When you speak, for example, of those people, those parliamentary groups that could support this motion of censure, and consequently from it build the Executive Power, you address them carefully, because you know that perhaps the motion of censure can thrive with the favorable vote of one of those parliamentary groups, albeit in pejorative terms. It addresses them in this way when it has approved the General Budgets of the State with them; when with them and with us it has approved the Basque Concert and the Basque Cup; when with them, for example, it agreed that dona Ana Pastor was president of the Congress; when even those political formations, Mr Rajoy, made the People's Party in Catalonia a member of the Permanent Parliament of Catalonia, because Mr Rivera and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, partner of his Government, denied them having a parliamentary group in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] You are well given the double measuring rod and the law of the funnel. You continue with the squabble of the price, of the shortcuts, little less than saying that article 113 of the Constitution is an illegitimate instrument, an instrument that would not provide the necessary budgets to be able to exercise your capacity in an extraordinary difficulty that you have caused, as a result of your lack of political responsibility. But when they tell me that at any price, with any shortcuts, Mr Rajoy, it sounds quite ridiculous to tell someone like me, that by taking up his electoral commitments and not rejecting the decisions made by an organ of my party, I gave up my parliamentary record and being secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, this is not the issue. The question is whether you are going to assume your political responsibilities. The question is whether you are going to resign as President of the Government. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, three hundred and fifty Members of Parliament, whether this democracy can afford to be two years longer bound by the corruption of the People's Party. I don't think so. Think of the political, electoral, democratic cost that Mr Rajoy's permanence as President of the Government may have if this Friday does not bear fruit and this motion of censure does not come forward. In my view, in the view of the Socialist Group, there is no political, electoral or democratic calculation that you, Mr Rajoy, can continue for one more minute as President of the Government. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I said in my previous speech that Mr Sánchez had devoted much of his first speech to talking about me, to talking about what Mr Ábalos had to do with him, who made the first speech. In this second he did it with greater intensity. Of course, your programme does not worry you, your programme is unknown to this House, and it therefore seems logical and normal that it is much more comfortable to talk about who is currently defending himself from a motion of censure. Mr. Sanchez, you said something here that's not true. It is not true that the object of the motion of censure is unique and exclusively to demand political responsibility from a particular Government. That's not the case. The object of the motion of censure in our Constitution and in the vast majority of the European Constitutions is twofold: on the one hand, to demand political responsibilities, and on the other hand, to approve the government programme and to elect a new candidate for the presidency of the Government. From this we have heard nothing this morning, and this is what I call blackmail to all groups, because it is indeed so; on the one hand, the alleged corruption of the People's Party, and on the other, a single person who demands political responsibilities, is put on the one hand. This is the great trick, the great trap, which I call a blackmail that you are doing to the whole of this House, including the members of your own party. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have said that you understand that the debate is hard and unpleasant and so is my position. Be absolutely certain that if the debate is tough and unpleasant it is for you, because for you it was certainly comfortable for me to resign and avoid having this debate, but for me it is a debate that is neither hard nor pleasant, because I fulfill my obligation, I defend my positions and explain to all the Spaniards the great trap you are trying to carry out in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it now comes to us with the old trick - to seem moderate after what we have heard over a long time - that the PP is not a corrupt party. Look, the People's Party is not a corrupt party I tell you and you don't have to tell me, which has been telling me the opposite for a long time; which I have not said, by the way, of the Socialist Party, nor of Mr Chaves and Mr Griñán, that I don't know why they resigned, except because it was the demand that Citizens put in to compromise in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I also don't know why you're talking to me about why you left or didn't come to the seat, because I've never raised that issue. I thought he had left here because he had been thrown out of his party; but it's the same to me, it's not a matter that I'm worried about, and I'm not going to put it in his face, except when you put it on the table. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, what you can't pretend is - and you've done it many times over the last few days - to fool people. He now says that he supports the General Budgets of the State that the People's Party has presented, and those that he has voted against, simply out of respect for this House. Hey, that is a lack of respect for this House, because everyone knows that you support the General Budgets of the State for other reasons that have nothing to do with your respect for the House! [[Applauds]] Because if that were so, I could respect our pension laws, I could respect our education laws, and I would not constantly threaten to change labour reform. Therefore, your respect for this House allows me to believe nothing at all. You have also said that you are not going to contribute to the rift in this debate. Well, he did, 'cause I'm not gonna get into that. But I could give you some arguments and some ways to behave that would no doubt be more useful to you to achieve the objective to which you have referred. In any case, Mr Sánchez, all these issues are still anecdotal, even if one of them can become a category. Here the important thing as I explained to you before is to know what you want to do and how you want to govern. You cannot come here simply to say that Mr Rajoy is the quintessence of all evils; then to say that the People's Party is not a corrupt party, but that political responsibilities must be assumed. Look, I'm the same as you; the same political responsibilities as you, which I know, huh? As far as I know, the same ones. Your Honor, that's all very well, but the important thing is, if you want to be President of the Government, to explain some things to us. So I have an obligation to ask you some questions because you are on the street, because you care about people and because you care about the ladies and gentlemen of this House. Will you order the prosecution, as some ask, to withdraw the charges against the people prosecuted by the Supreme Court, following the events that we all know? It's just that this is important, Mr. Sanchez, don't look at me like that! That is a question that must be asked to those who aspire to be President of the Government! [[Applauds]] Let Mrs. Robles explain, who knows a lot about that. [[Laughter]] Are you going to accept the requests of Mr Torra, the President of the Generalitat, and the Members who support him? Are you going to assume them, yes or no? It is important that I say this here, because it is important that we know all who have to vote here. Are you going to support the right of self-determination, as some ask, or not? Don't talk so much, if that's conviction! He doesn't need anyone to tell him what to answer. If Mr Sánchez is not clear about this and he has to ask the people next door, then we have a problem. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, do you keep your word, explained in an interview published in January of this year, in which you say: you cannot go in a motion of censure against Rajoy with whom you want to break Spain? Do you keep your word, Mr. Sanchez? Yes or no. Or consult if you want. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, you will agree with me that these are not minor issues that I have raised with you. They are not minors, they are important; everyone knows it and we are all concerned, and it is therefore logical for me to do so and it is logical for you to answer them, because that is why you are the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. I would like, without wishing to exhaust the ladies and gentlemen of this House, to raise some other issues which are also of interest to you. Look, one of them was what you were going to do with the General Budgets of the State; it was logical and it was normal for me to ask about the General Budgets of the State. We already know what he is going to do with the State's General Budgets, although I have nothing to say, with all due respect. Your Honor, there is a second issue that is also important: are you committed to fulfilling Spain's commitments to the European Union? Because if we listen to the amendments that you and some of your partners have tabled in the budget debate, it is clear that you are not going to meet the deficit target, which is essential for Spain to maintain its economic growth and employment. I say this because the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party - which perhaps votes for it - are EUR 28 billion; that is three points of deficit and are important and it is good that the whole House knows it. Are you going to accept those amendments? I ask you to be more clear and concrete on this matter. Third question, which is also important, and that is why I ask you for it: Are you still committed to the reform of the Constitution? I repeat, it is not a minor issue. You want to reform the Constitution, we even opened - you asked us and I accepted it - a subcommittee to talk about the reform of the territorial model. I tried to be constructive, what happens is that you opened that Commission, there we went a few and now it's just you and me, the others are gone. I don't know what the reason is, but don't worry, because I'll be there with you to deal with that matter. But it would be good if it were clarified, because it still does not clarify an issue that is so important to the general interests of Spain. There is another issue that also interests citizens, which is economic policy. I will not repeat it, because I have already done it many times and you know it very well, what we have experienced in Spain in recent years, the efforts that the Spaniards had to make, the situation in which we are now. I believe that the future, if things are done wisely, can be good; it is true that there are clouds, such as trade problems or oil price problems themselves, but we can have good growth and we can continue to create jobs in Spain. We will therefore have definitively overcome the crisis to which wrong policies have led us. But, of course, Your Honor, I would like you to clarify here what you are going to do with some issues that are also important for the Spanish economy. Explain the energy reform; explain how many taxes are going to be on the bank; explain whether the taxes of IRPF, companies and hydrocarbons are going to rise; I understand that we maintain the decrease in the IRPF that goes in the budgets. All these things are important and the consequences of making one decision or another are not the same, Mr Sánchez. Having said that, there is another issue on which, I am very sorry, I have to ask you. I have already done so, but there is no way for you to answer me, because you are with the political responsibilities but you are not in what you are going to do, and people are also concerned about the future of your country. Mr. Sanchez, how are you going to govern? That's very important. I understand that you are going to make a government alone, as I have heard, because there are some potential partners who are also targeted and who would like to be there. You can get, of course, a majority for censorship, but do you think that with 84 Members you can govern? I say this because I have an experience: I have ruled with 137, of which 134 were of my party and it was not easy. With 50 fewer seats, do you think you can govern?, that you can set up a good project for the future for a long time, with objectives?, that the markets will believe it?, that the European Union will support it? I'm telling you - I insist again - because I've experienced a situation like that that we were talking about. And then, Your Honor, can you explain to me how you can rule with the support of some people that I thought you didn't like very much? "I don't intend to deal with populists in our country," Mr. Sánchez says. The populists will be Mr. Churches, won't they? If you're not Mr. Churches, you tell us and we're all calmer. [[Laughter]] 'I strongly guarantee you that the PSOE will not reach agreements with Podemos.' Look, you have a problem, Mr. Iglesias, because you also say, 'We may not fit my program'. Not in mine, huh, in his. It says, 'To deal with them - with you - would be to harm the weakest and that is not the PSOE program.' Look at what it says about you: 'Neither before nor during nor after will the PSOE deal with populism, because the PSOE is a left-wing party that looks at the center and attracts the center'. Did you know this? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] 'Churches have made lies their way of doing politics'. I don't say, huh? 'Lie more than you talk.' [[The President of the Government, Rajoy Brey, pointed his finger at Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón.-Laughter.-Applause]] Churches reminds - the candidate - a small child: if you don't do what I want, I stop breathing. [[Laughter]] They will allow me to refrain from remembering here the statements that Mr Sánchez makes about me because he has not asked me to vote. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] To the Republican Left of Catalonia, which besides being an independenceist party, you say - look - that it is a progressive and leftist party, this is the question the candidate asks him: 'How is it possible that you have put forward the racist and supremacist ideas of Torra and supported him to be president of the Generalitat?' 'The election of Mr Joaquim Torra has uncovered the racist shames of secessionism,' says the candidate. 'Turra is nothing but a racist at the head of the Generalitat.' 'It is no more or less than the Le Pen of Spanish politics.' They will never have heard this sort of statement to the current President of the Government of Spain, ever. [[Applauds]] 'We are seeing in Europe the rise of reactionary populist and xenophobic movements and in Spain it has materialized in this reactionary movement in Catalonia'. Never has the President of the Government made an affirmation of that stew. 'I am not prepared for Spain's governability to rest in independence parties.' Well, you'll have to deal with Citizens, unless Citizens have become an independent party, and it doesn't seem, at least for the moment. Mr Sánchez, do you honestly believe that with this background and with all those whom I have previously referred to, someone can take seriously a government such as you intend to form? Do you honestly believe that something can be built? Do you think that someone can trust this, with those background, with this political situation, with this excessive ambition, with that aversion to going through the ballot box, which must be understood for the reasons I have previously referred to? Frankly, I think it would be very negative - I say to the 350 Members of this House - for Spain if this motion of censure were to go ahead. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u39	You've thrown the rest, Mr. Rajoy. [[Rumors]] Finally, I was reflecting at the beginning of my reply on whether you had learned anything. You, as leader of the opposition, were the one who set up small tables in Andalusia, telling the parents of Andalusia that their children, as a result of the Statute of Catalonia approved by the evil José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, would learn Catalan. [[Rumors]] You, Mr Rajoy, brought an application for unconstitutionality to the Statute of Catalonia before the Constitutional Court, which the person you are talking to, the Vice-President of the Government, once you were anointed in that position, acknowledged that it was a mistake to present. [[Several Members: No, no.-The Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency and for Public Administration, Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, makes negative gestures]] Mr President of the Government, what is happening to Catalonia today is that it has a statute that was appealed to the Constitutional Court and that was not voted for by Catalan citizens. There is therefore a political problem that we need to resolve. That political problem, Mr Rajoy, is not solved alone and exclusively as you have done in recent years, which is hiding behind the courts and behind the robes. You, as President of the Government, have had the enormous opportunity and, I insist, the enormous generosity of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the opposition, being Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba Secretary General of the Socialist Party and being myself. That is why I do not allow you, Mr Rajoy, to question the state loyalty of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] There is a political problem that we need to solve. That is why I say to you that you should learn from your own experience; not from our own, which the 350 Members here can share, but from your own, as leader of the opposition. Of those dusts, these muds, Mr. Rajoy. Now, as President of the Government, you are paying in your own flesh, and with you the entire citizenry, that suicide strategy for the country to confront territorially to reach La Moncloa. [[Applauds]] We're not gonna do it. We have been loyal to the opposition and also from the Government we have called for that loyalty. You're only loyal when you're in government. That is the difference between the People's Party and the Socialist Party when we talk about territorial politics. [[Applauds]] The paradoxical thing, Mr Rajoy, is that you suffer and are a victim of your own strategy of territorial confrontation, but it is your great shield to remain at the head of the Presidency of the Government of Spain. We here, in this motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, have a great opportunity among all - not only with the motion of censure of the Socialist Parliamentary Group which alone could not come out - to resolve and unravel that Gordian knot that the President of the Government and the People's Party have made of the territorial confrontation, which has become the only reason, the only cause for continuing to be President of the Government. We are, of course, going to reach out, we are going to dialogue with all the parliamentary groups present here and we are going to dialogue with each and every one of the autonomous governments. And, of course, Mr Rajoy, I reject - I imagine you too - the statements and the thought that the current President of the Generalitat of Catalonia has been able to express. But, Mr. Rajoy, to stay in the Journal of Sessions and, above all, to be fair, since he quotes me, he says everything, because, if not, it is a half truth, which is the worst of lies and is what you are a specialist in. What I have always said, Mr Rajoy, is that as a legitimate representative of the Generalitat de Catalunya, if I am elected President of the Government as a result of this motion of censure, I will meet and try to bridge with the Presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya and with the new Government to get out of the situation that, among others, you have created. [[applause]] Now, may you tell me that we are traitors to the homeland, that we are a country breakers, when the Socialist Party negotiated with you the extremes - all - of the application of Article 155 and when the Socialist mayors of the PSC were the ones who precisely defended that the unilateral path in Catalonia was not imposed... [[Applauds]] And you know it. But what are we going to stay in, in the reproach, Mr. Rajoy? Aren't we going to look further? Do you not realize, Mr Rajoy, from the mere experience of government you have, that in the Spanish/nationalist discourse Mr Rivera is more credible than yourself? It is more credible for the simple reason that you have not ruled; you do. Do you not realize, Mr Rajoy, that what you are doing is precisely feeding the most harmful debate for all those who defend the territorial integrity of our country, for all those who defend a plural Spain? [[Applauds]] I have a conception of the country. I defend that Spain is a nation and I defend, as many other countries defend, or even the Council of Europe itself, that within the Spanish nation there are territories that also feel a nation and, consequently, we can perfectly coexist together, guarantee the territorial integrity of our country and do so with that fundamental norm, which is the Spanish Constitution, which is very clear, meridian in the definition of what Spain is, in its article 2. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, after the rain, you can give me lessons, I know, of many things, sure, I am convinced, but what you are not going to give me lessons is in defense of my country and of my love for my country. [[Applauds]] You say: Mr Sánchez - as if we were a party that has not ruled twenty years of the 40 years of democracy - Mr Sánchez, you are a dangerous red, you are a radical, an enemy of the homeland or an enemy of the state, as Mrs De Cospedal said, or Judas, as Mr Maillo said. Judas, the enemy of the State, in short, I am all that and much more, I am convinced, much more, but I will tell you, Mr Rajoy, that you are not the first voter of the People's Party - I do not know if you will continue to be - that you have addressed me on the street, saying to me: please take Mr Rajoy from the Presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]] You say: Mr Sánchez, I am very concerned, and I want you to answer the question of what you are going to do with the budget commitments, what you are going to do with the budgets. Let's see, this motion of censure - I insist - it is you who has provoked it, it is you who has summoned it, Mr Rajoy. [[Protests.-Several Members: No, no, no.-Mr Hernando Fraile fingered Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] Yes, yes, yes, let me tell you. It was you, among other things, who sentenced the People's Party Gürtel on 24 May, Thursday. We hope to see what was the reaction of the People's Party and the Government of Spain to a sentence that pointed to people who were doing - let me say sarcasm - 'things', and what we saw was that nobody showed up, I don't know if out of shame or because for you corruption is something banal, that you can look elsewhere and point out to the public and say: gentlemen, this is what there is, this is a reality that we have in our country, we have to live with it and here you are not going to assume political responsibilities. Look, Mr Rajoy, if I had - which I will not have in life - Barcenas as treasurer of the People's Party, I would have resigned a long time ago, and that's what you have to do. But he tells me, are you going to meet the public deficit targets? Are you going to meet the European commitments? Are you going to meet, in short, that message that we have to move from certainty and economic stability? Of course I will, Mr. Rajoy. This is a party that has ruled twenty of the forty years of our democracy, it is a party that rules in many autonomous communities, in many deputies, in many municipalities. We do not want these budgets, but we respect the House's agreement, inter alia, so that the various territorial, provincial and local administrations have the budgets and can operate during this year. [[Rumors.-Applause.-Various Members: Ah!]] And what I will do will be to propose to the House that we start working on the General Budgets of the State for 2019, which would have to be in debate right now, in processing, and not precisely those of 2018, whose implementation is going to be half a year. [[rumors]] Are you going to tell me about responsibilities or stability? [[Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio: Are you going to vote in favour of the Senate?]] Please, Mr Rajoy, if it is precisely the territorial crisis that you have made, among other issues, that you have had to address the necessary debate of the General State Budgets for 2018 now. You see? You are the one who uses the great shield of the territorial crisis to remain in the Government of Spain. Use the territorial crisis when it suits you, because then, if you have to do to the pastor president of Congress with the votes of the PDECAT, nothing happens. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: But if you didn't vote for it.-Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative gestures]] If it has to carry out general state budgets, nothing happens either because they are supported by the Basque Nationalist Party. If you have to be present in the Permanent Chamber of the Parliament of Catalonia, you have other support. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative gestures]] I mean with abstention. Well, for the record in the Journal of Sessions, that's not the case with Mrs. Pastor. But you understand what I mean. And make no mistake, Mr. Rajoy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u41	It is clear, Mr Rajoy, that the government can emerge from this motion of censure, of course, that it will meet the public deficit targets that, by the way, the European Commission itself and the AIReF have pointed out. You always say that Spain was not rescued; yes, Mr Rajoy, I tell you again, I told you even in English in the debate about the state of the nation: this country was rescued, its financial sector was rescued and, as a result of that rescue and as a result of the poor management that you did - well, not you, Mr Rato, that gentleman that you tell me about an institution like Bankia - Spain was rescued and had to create some institutions, including the AIReF. [[laughs]] And the European Commission and AIReF have been very clear in their clear doubts that these budgets will meet the deficit targets that you have set. You tell me about energy policy, when you have been without energy policy for seven years. You tell me about pensions, when you left a Social Security Reserve Fund, which you inherited with 66 billion euros, in less than 8 billion euros. [[Applauds]] Finally, you talk to me about autonomous financing when you committed yourself to the autonomous presidents of the Socialist Party and the People's Party two years ago to present a model of autonomous financing and we have not only been four years behind in the implementation of what is the law, but almost two years in the implementation of that agreement necessary to finance our welfare state, which is now in the hands of the autonomous communities. You say to me, "How are you going to rule?" Well, look, I know it's not going to be easy, Mr Rajoy, but what other option does this House have? [[Rumors]] The only option you have is for you to resign today, here and now. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: No!]] Dismissed. If you want your country so much; if you are so interested in the future of the Spaniards, to whom you feel you are a part; if you care so much about economic stability, democracy, the European reputation - things I of course guarantee - if you are so concerned about all this, Mr Rajoy, I am asking you, by a gesture - I am not going to say anything about democracy - to take a step forward, ask forgiveness and today in this House, Mr Rajoy, before you find the censorship of the absolute majority of the Congress of Deputies, resign as President of the Government. [[Rumors]] If you do, this motion of censure will be over. You will have assumed that political responsibility for some cases of corruption affecting the party you have been running since 2003, first as Secretary General and then as President of the People's Party, and a new stage in Spanish politics can be opened. What I am asking you, Mr Rajoy, is that you assume your responsibility, and if you do not assume responsibility, I am asking this House to make us all take responsibility for Mariano Rajoy and we all open a new time, open a new time where we give political stability and normalize the institutions. Mr. Rajoy, the votes of the nationalist formations or formations that are currently defending independence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u42	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u43	...and who are now represented in this House are as legitimate as yours or mine. They are citizens who vote for them, they are representatives of national sovereignty. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, you do not hide in the territorial crisis to hold on as you hold on to the Presidency of the Government. For the country, resign. And if not, ladies and gentlemen, for the country, let's have him resign. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u44	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin this new speaking time by asking the candidate a question, if he would be happy to answer it. I will ask you one question: What concept do you have of what a democratic system is? Can you explain to this House why I have to resign, that at the moment I have the confidence of the majority of citizens and at the moment I have the confidence of the majority of this House, when you have neither the confidence of the citizens nor that of this House? Don't you think it's reasonable for me to resign when I lose any of them? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] You bring without care what people say. There are elections, the People's Party wins the December 2015 elections and you lose them with the worst result of your party's history. Six months later, elections are again held; the People's Party wins them more differently and you repeat with the worst result ever again in the history of your party. [[A Member of Parliament: And give it to him]] Then his party takes him away, and then, with 50% of the support, he gets the leadership back, and he gives me lessons in resignation? The one who has to resign is you, and also irrevocably. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in democracy a political leader leaves when the voters say it or when the House says it, and that is why I am here today, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] It's also good from time to time to learn some things. But this is still a minor issue; the main issue is that Mr Sánchez remains unanswered from this rostrum and that, I insist again, he is obliged to raise them, because you are the candidate for the Presidency of the Government and I have an obligation to do so, and I assume that the rest of the people who speak here will do the same as me, because this is what it is all about. That is, you intend to be president of the government without winning the elections and, moreover, without being examined and without telling the House what you are going to do. This is not democracy, Mr Sánchez. Democracy is not your will; you have to carry out procedures and, as we have all done and I have done on three occasions, you have to come here and answer what is asked of you, because that is what the Spaniards are demanding. He has not come to answer the questions; he has come to talk about me because it is the only argument he has. You have also said this: This is a motion to demand political responsibility. It is not only for that, to demand political responsibilities, that, okay; it is also for electing President of the Government, that is not a minor issue. [[Applauds]] And the President of the Government has an obligation to explain himself to the House. Your Honor, after we have all heard in this House the qualifications you have dedicated to different members of this Parliament - because they respond to your way of being, Mr Sánchez - you cannot come here to become a victim, because it is a lie. Just as it is profoundly unfair to speak again of Gürtel while he has not told us a single word of the EREs. Why don't you talk about your program and go back to the same thing over and over again. Don't you have another argument, another reason, can't you think of anything else? What about the pensions? He told us about the pensions. But if by the time we got to the government, 70 billion euros of collection had been lost! - €70 billion in collection!- That's why I'm worried about this motion of censure, that's why I'm worried about it. What lessons will you give of pensions, if we have succeeded in the most furious crisis in our history to maintain the pension system. On the subject of budgets, the House is once again caught up with each other. He said before: We will approve the budgets because we respect the decisions taken by the House. When everyone knows it's not like that. But now he says they're going to approve them to maintain the budgets of the autonomous communities. Your Honor, you know as well as I - we all know - that that is settled by a royal decree-law, that in this House would be passed in half an hour because all political parties would agree that it would be so. Therefore, you defend your positions, but do so with a little reason and argument because if not many can think that you are not being serious with them. Ladies and gentlemen, I prefer to talk about the future than about the past; I do not think it makes any sense to talk about what happened here ten years ago and about the resources they put together. Throughout my political career, I have always been in favour of something, that territorial issues are agreed and agreed. I have agreed and agreed on numerous occasions - even with people sitting here right now - on reforms of autonomy statutes and important agreements, even with people of your party. There was a certain moment in recent history where we were left out and preferred to agree with them. You are fully free to do so. [[Mr. Candidate for the Presidency of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón makes negative gestures with his head]] Yes, yes, you brought that subject up. I have participated in many of the great agreements that have been in this country because, moreover, I believe that the only way to solve the country's territorial problems and order coexistence is through understanding, pact and agreement. To that extent, I have therefore made an effort to have you - I have said so in my speech - support the implementation of Article 155. Another question that you have not answered is whether you are going to maintain control of the Generalitat - as you have told me and we have agreed very recently - economic control. Nor has he answered that, as he has not answered all the other questions, and I think it makes no sense for him to repeat them because if we were not here until three in the afternoon. He leaves many matters, many, Mr Sánchez, in doubt, and that generates instability. That is not to generate certainty, which is something capital at times like those we are now living in Europe. We have a problem in Italy, we have a problem after what has happened with the Iran agreement and another with the world trade agreements. This does not help the economy and therefore does not help the economic growth or employment of people. I cannot accept his assertion, for injustice, that we are loyal when we are in the Government and not when we are not, because at the end of 2011, in one of the most difficult situations that Spain was going through, I received a call from the then president of the Government, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, in which he told me that if we did not reform the Constitution as quickly as possible, Spain could have problems of enormous gravity. And in a quarter of an hour I gave her an answer; I said yes; we amended the Constitution and then you - who voted favorably - were criticizing that reform in the halls of Congress. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I think there are many differences between you and me, but the most important thing is that I keep my word and you don't, and that in politics is very important. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and of the members of the Government, stood up.- The President of the Government, turning to his parliamentary group, bows his head in gratitude]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u46	Mr. Sanchez. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u47	Madam President, I think this debate gives little more of itself, honestly. [[Rumors and Protests]] I think. I think.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u48	Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u49	I believe that the Socialist Group and I myself in the speeches have clearly set out the subject of the motion of censure; a motion of censure which was not part of our plans; a candidature for the Presidency of the Government - you know, Mr President - which was not at all part of my plans; a motion of censure which is very necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for the democratic quality of the Courts and of all the citizens you represent. [[Several Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament: Ja, ja, ja]] [[Several Members and Members: Nooo]] I understand that the People's Parliamentary Group today does not see the need to support, logically, this motion of censure and, therefore, I am going to address the rest of the House, to ask for their support, so that we can all open up a new time in Spanish politics, which will also be beneficial for the coexistence between Spaniards, for the coexistence between territories. And I will extend my hand to each and every one of the parliamentary groups, to each and every one of the autonomous governments in our country, because there are many things we have to do between all of us together. Personally, Mr. Rajoy, I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, I don't know. You have my personal and political respect, I assure you. He's got it. [[Rumors.-A lady MP: It's about time, it's about time!]] You have it, Mr. Rajoy. You have my personal and political respect. During this year we have shared many hours and talked a lot and, Mr Rajoy, I wish you the best in personal terms, but in political terms you can no longer continue to be President of the Government. [[a lady deputy: Traitor!]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u50	Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u51	Mr Sánchez, I am grateful for some of the words you have just spoken in this last speech. I also wish you the best in personal terms, but I cannot wish you the best in political terms, especially if that means that you have the status of President of the Government. I believe that you are not in a position to make a stable government in our country. It is not, and I think that has become clear throughout this debate that you have just said is no more. Yes, I could give you more of it. I would be willing to be here three days giving more arguments and more reasons to prove that you are not in a position to form a stable government. You don't have a country idea. You do not have it, Mr Sánchez, and it has also become very clear in the speeches that have taken place here this morning. And I'd also be willing to be here three days to point out that you don't have a country idea. You have no answer to the challenges of the future, Mr Sánchez, and you have no economic policy to ensure that the path that Spain has embarked on in favour of economic recovery, economic growth and employment is something that we can maintain in the future. But most importantly, Mr Sánchez, and don't take it the wrong way - don't take it the wrong way: you can't be president of the government because you don't have the support of the Spaniards and you've never won an election, and in democracy you rule who wins the election, unless you have to tell us something else. Thank you very much. [[Strong and prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government, stood up.-The President of the Government greets with his hand the members of his parliamentary group and leaves the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u52	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 177(2), I suspend the sitting until 15 o'clock. It was thirteen and ten minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at three and five minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u53	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the interventions of the formations integrated into the Joint Group. First of all, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Sánchez, we are faced with the debate on a motion of censure which is, first of all, a constitutionally protected measure, a perfectly legitimate tool for demanding political responsibilities from the Government and which, in our opinion, is presented by the person who must present it, by the person who really represents the opposition as the majority power of the opposition. New Canarias believes that this initiative must have taken place because the crisis of credibility associated with corruption requires a social response, but also from this House. Although there were already plenty of reasons to demand action and responsibility, unfortunately it has had to be a court ruling that triggered this process, which would force us all and everyone to reflect on whether the culture of responsibility is not frankly deficient in the Spanish State. New Canarias, in addition, participated with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the past elections with an electoral agreement that it has scrupulously respected and that included an electoral programme and support for Mr Sánchez's investiture in this case, so that not only because we are obliged to fulfil our responsibility, but because we thought it appropriate to present this initiative, New Canarias will honour his commitment and announce the vote in favour of this motion of censure. [[Applauds]] Thank you, it's not usual for this to happen to me. It is reassuring the recognition made by Mr Sánchez of the usefulness of the General Budgets of the State of 2018. These general budgets are not the budgets of the People's Party exclusively, nor are they the budgets of New Canarias exclusively. What is true is that if they had not had any changes to the original idea, New Canarias would never have supported them. These are general budgets with shortcomings from our point of view, but with obvious improvements on all the budgets of the recent economic crisis, from the point of view of the general issues, but also from the point of view of the interests of the Canary Islands, which has been resolved historically some of the issues that have been mistreating the interests of the Canary Islands through the recent Spanish democratic history. It is now - we are very pleased that Mr Sánchez has referred to this - that it is possible to establish another economic policy and another social policy, to initiate a legislative agenda by recovering, among other things, the many initiatives that are sleeping in the drawers because there has not been enough political initiative to put them into action. We applaud this measure. We also recall that there is a canary agenda in Congress that refers to the REF and the Statute of Autonomous Canary Islands, which are not exactly anything. But it has made reference to the need to regain the independence of Spanish Broadcasting - it is very well, we completely agree with this - to act from the point of view of the need to recover the universal right to health, the need to act to correct the excesses of the Law gag, etc. We also liked to hear that he considers the candidate that it is necessary for them to undertake a draft budgets for 2019, to show that it is really possible to do things differently. What we certainly would not have accepted in any case is that the consequence of a motion of censure should have been the convening of a new election; that is not the consequence of a motion of censure, because this would have produced an institutional paralysis and, in any case, perhaps it would have been good for the majority, not for the majority, who should have decided when a new election would be held, but perhaps it would have been good for them to fulfil the electoral interests of some political party. That kind of demand, however legitimate, is not up to the debate that is being held here today. Therefore, new elections, yes, when we decide among all, when it is shown that that is actually what it is, and that is not what it is right now. We reiterate our support for the motion of censure put forward by Mr Sánchez, as well as support for his investiture. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u55	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start by calling things by their name. This motion of censure has not been presented for the good of Spain, that is false. This motion is a political initiative that seeks to bring you, Mr Sánchez, to the presidency, and in passing, it is the first act of your election campaign. I will not deny that Mr Rajoy's party cries out to heaven, but weakening the institutions in the midst of a state crisis is a serious irresponsibility. Especially because we are seeing that whoever makes the pay, that justice is working even if the PP is in power. This motion has been tabled because politics in Spain is dedicated to the headlines of the next day. For this reason, everything that serves to harm the adversary, everything that walks in the media is a good fuel, from the flag of Spain to corruption. Corruption in this country is not going to end with censorship, but with exemplary justice. Anti-corruption laws and preventive mechanisms must be made; the other is only electoral demagoguery. Mr. Sánchez, if you won this motion you would have a perch victory, a victory that tomorrow you will know to defeat. You will come to the Presidency of the Government of Spain with the support of those who want to break Spain. Be careful that I don't say change Spain, because that's what we want almost everyone. Mr. Iglesias has decided this time to throw himself in the pool, but it will not be free, Your Honor, Mr. Iglesias has already announced that he wants a piece of the cake. That is, that the moral and ethical regeneration of the government also goes through the distribution of the power armchairs, but that is not the most expensive price it will have to pay. You also have the support of secessionist parties, some radical and others moderate; some have court cases opened for corruption and illegal financing, but in this case you do not wake up any social alarm because you need your votes. You have a rather peculiar alarm system, Mr. Sanchez. Those parties of the radical secessionist left have plunged this country into the worst tensions of democracy and brought us to the brink of social rupture, and you bring them with you. You'll tell me you're not going to make concessions and I'll tell you that if you think you're supporting him for nothing, let him look at it. Because something will be doing you wrong if it's good for those who are working to break the state. To you, Mr Rivera, I have to tell you that your party does not even treat citizens as voters but as consumers. There's an old phrase that says it's better to be quiet and look silly than talking and confirming it. [[Applauds]] I believe that it is not your case, that it is not your case, Mr Rivera, that you are so afraid of losing the success that Catalonia has given you that you have taken refuge in silence and absence, when what Spain needs is clarity and decision. That brave young man who came out in a pitted ball in a fence has become a naked king who believes the praises of election polls. Where are we today? [[Applauds]] Mr. Rajoy wanted to wait a year and a half because he believed that during that time he would improve the image of his party. He has not understood that the damage caused is not in the image of the PP, but in democracy. Mr Rivera only wants elections to take place tomorrow because he believes they will benefit him to come to power, and Mr Sánchez raises a motion of censure to take advantage of the weakness of the government, and because he is willing to pay the price for coming to the presidency, the price he will receive from Podemos and his secessionist allies. Today we had institutional theatre but we didn't know if it was going to be a comedy or a tragedy. Well, we know that, ladies and gentlemen, it's the beginning of the second. Many of us do not care about the Government falling, we are concerned about what response we give to the citizens. Outside there is a country that is waiting for us to solve the problem of unemployment, for us to change the labour reform, for us to raise pensions, for us to end the precariousness, for us to meet the most vulnerable. There's the audience out there, and here's the circus. There are people who say that Spain is sick but it is not true, ladies and gentlemen, the one who is sick is politics. I have come to this House to work for the future of the citizens of my land, of the Canary Islands, and of all Spain, and when I speak to them they ask me for the future of their pensions; for the help of the dependency, which does not arrive; for the way to get a job and a decent salary. Citizens are waiting for us to do things for them, ladies and gentlemen, and we spend our lives doing things for ourselves. If we go that way, less and less people will believe in democracy every day, less and less people will think that we are working to solve their problems. We do not understand politics as pure opportunism, Mr Sánchez, we understand it as an exercise of loyalty and seriousness. I can agree with many of your criticisms of the PP, in fact I share them, but I cannot accept that the way to govern this country is with an alliance with those who want to destroy the country model. I cannot understand that the way to regenerate Spain is to agree with those who want to leave it. I cannot understand that the ethical way of throwing out a party affected by corruption is with the votes of another party so condemned for illegal financing that it even had to change its name. I cannot understand that your legitimate ambition to be president will cost us so much of all Spaniards. Remember these words, Mr Sánchez: the mistake is a weapon that always ends up shooting at the one who uses it, and you have made a serious mistake today. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u57	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr. Sanchez. Last Friday and today you addressed the three hundred and fifty Members of this House and called for our responsibility to support your motion of censure to Mr Rajoy, which obliges me to ask you three crucial questions whose answers I consider to be inescapable in order to prosecute the sense of your own responsibility. The first is whether this motion of censorship strengthens or weakens the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, the foundation of our Constitution. It is unlikely for the Forum that you will receive and accept the votes of the independenceist parties that have revealed themselves against the rule of law in Catalonia, if their leaders are not convinced that the political dialogue on their secessionist demands and the procedural approach to the criminal responsibilities of the accused hold hopes of their Government more benign than those expected from the action of the Rajoy Government in the exercise of their powers. An investiture based on Catalan independence we believe that it fundamentally damages the unity of Spain and you have just offered open doors to the Generalitat. In fact, Mr. Tardà, who catches them on the flight, just thanked him. Tell the Spaniards, looking into their eyes, that if you are president of the government, the independenceists, who are going to vote for you in bloc, will not be favored and will not have the slightest hope in their aspirations. The second question seeks to inquire about their attention or disdain to the problems of Asturias, the autonomous community plunged into the greatest decline, measured by the indicators of divergence with Spain, in population, increase in wealth and well-being, as well as in job creation. The motion of censure was filed on the pretext of the Gürtel ruling a few hours after this House approved the 2018 General State Budgets Bill, a key tool for political stability, economic growth and job creation. The priority for the Asturians is the approval and execution of public accounts, which now for the first time in many years give a decisive response to the causes of our decline, which in few cases is the product of the calamitous socialist management in its dual national and autonomous variant, with Mr Zapatero and Mr Fernández as respective presidents. Today, in an already legendary pirouette, you present yourself here converted to the General Budgets Act within a few days of your own group rejecting them. What circus do you think you're in? Why do you take the Members of your group and the other groups? Do you remember the disqualifications of your spokesman when he asked from here for the return of the bill? [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, a sailboat is much more reliable than you. For the Asturians it is essential that the high-speed railway that the Socialists stole from us, the motorways that you paralyzed, the restoration of the pre-Romanic and Romanesque heritage that you forgot, the reindustrialisation, the new technologies of clean coal, the compensation of electricity costs or the recovery of the mining funds that, in the face of inherited desertification, today have budgetary allocations that your party despises. [[Rumors]] Not satisfied the PSOE with having fixed the fateful date of 2018 as the final point for coal mining, threaten with the closure of power generation thermal power plants regardless of the higher energy costs... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u59	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u60	... will affect the domestic receipt and the costs of our electrically intensive industries, which provide thousands of jobs. I have not heard a single word addressed to the welfare of Asturians, who aspire not to be more than anyone else, but who do not accept to be less than others. Since you claim that Rajoy's motion of censure seeks to free Spain from the scourge of PP corruption, the third question claims that you respond to the curiosity that assaults us on the sincerity of its purposes. I'm not talking about Andalusia or the Valencian Community, I'm talking about little and distant Asturias. I invite you again to review your files; please also provide them to the PNV, to decide their support with full knowledge. Please clarify in detail the political responsibilities that you and your party will assume in known corruption cases, such as the overruns of 400 million of El Musel's works, a continental record of its kind, the Niemeyer Foundation's waste scandal, the Villa case or the latrocinio of mining funds, the UGT case on training courses, or the cases already judged judicially by the mayors of Cudillero and Pravia, and the looting of children's public schools' money, known as the Marea case. In short, Mr Sánchez, Foro cannot give his vote to those who represent a weak and ambiguous government that will not face with firmness the secessionist challenges, to whom suddenly he completely changes his opinion in the full processing of the draft law of general budgets, to whom he hypocritically uses against the adversaries the complaints about corruption, while living pleasantly with the most pompous of his expressions in the Valencian Community, Andalusia and Asturias. Mr. Sanchez, you don't deserve our trust. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u61	Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Executive here, good afternoon. Mr Sánchez, good afternoon, welcome back to this House. I will tell you what my party views on this political situation that our country has been experiencing for a long time: immediate general elections, because it is the most dignified solution, because it is the most democratic solution... [[applause]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u63	Quiet. Mr. Alli, one second, please. Don't worry, I'll stop your time. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u64	I see someone's afraid of democracy. [[Applauds]] ...and because it is the only solution and the one that citizenship is demanding of us, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know how cynical all this is? The exercise of cynicism that we are suffering in this House is that the political forces that are against early general elections do not think of the common good, of citizenship in general, but are thinking of the objective of your parties or of your personal objective, particularly of you, Mr Sánchez. I wonder why some political forces do not want general elections. Some because they have a candidate who has been the worst - to the results I refer - in terms of results in the previous general elections. Others because, perhaps, they are predicting a debacle. Other political forces because they need some time after the problems people have had their leaders. By the way, Mr Iglesias, you do not know how happy I am with your prosperity, how happy you are with the Navarro People's Union for the prosperity of all Spaniards. Now it will turn out that the policies of Mr Rajoy and the People's Party have come to you very well, as I also understand that you are going to govern, supposedly, with the general budgets of the People's Party. In addition, there are other political forces, in this case the nationalists and the independenceists, who are afraid of the Jacobin orange color that seems to shiver in some surveys; that is also a reality. Well, look, here's a political party, with the humility of two seats, that has no fear and that democracy doesn't scare... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u65	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u66	Thank you, Madam President. ... which is the Navarro People's Union, which wants citizens to speak, because we understand that above all there is the common good of the Spaniards. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us abandon the policy of cynicism. This is not about a personal issue, whose president you have to be, whether Mr Rajoy or Mr Sánchez or any of us. I'm talking to you about regaining confidence in politics. I'm talking about returning prestige to the institutions. I am talking to you about the Spaniards who get up every morning, put on the radio and listen to the ERE trial, the 3% trial or the papers from Bárcenas. I am talking to you about those Spaniards who are wondering what has to happen in this country for something to change. What has to happen in this country is for early general elections to come, ladies and gentlemen. And here we are in a possible debate of investiture for a gentleman who wants to rule Spain without having won either an election, or a single, never, ever, and with eighty-four seats, Mr Sánchez. You've built the house on the roof. Register the motion, then notify your party - now, when you talk about participatory processes and bases, remember this that you have done in this motion of censure - and, moreover, call on other political forces - there is nothing more to see the cast of those who, presumably, will support you - so that they can lend you a hand and you can govern. Mr. Sánchez, do you really think you're going to succeed as president of this country with ERC? Do you really think you're going to succeed with Bildu? Do you really think you're going to succeed with the old CiU, which changed its name for corruption issues? I would like to remind you, Mr Sánchez, that these gentlemen consider you racially inferior. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] No, don't worry, not only about him, but also about me and all the Spaniards who are not independentists or nationalists. Finally, Madam President, the Navarro People's Union is going to vote against this motion of censure tabled by Mr Pedro Sánchez. For all the reasons I have said so far but, in essence, because we have an agreement with the People's Party with a single point of compromise on the part of the Navarro People's Union, which says that we have an obligation to vote for Mr Rajoy's investiture - which we have fulfilled - and then guarantee his support for the People's Party in any possible motion of censure. Therefore, we are a reliable party; we are a party that has a word and that when it signs, it signs with commitment. I say this in the future, for those who want to agree, on the right or on the left, from the ideological centrality of the Union of the Navarro People so that you know that we are a party that presents itself in this House with word and commitment. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to throw the first stone that is free of all guilt in terms of corruption. Unión del Pueblo Navarro, after twenty-three years uninterrupted in the Government of Navarra, has not had a single case of corruption, no final conviction for corruption. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u68	That can only be said in this House of the Navarro People's Union. In conclusion, therefore: general elections, ladies and gentlemen; political regeneration and, finally, the redignification of politicians. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u69	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde. [[Mr Campuzano i Canadés asks for the floor]] Wait a minute. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u70	Thank you, President. An unacceptable value trial has been conducted by the spokesman for the Navarro People's Union. Out of respect for all of us...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u71	Your Honor, you have to tell me which article you're referring to and what you're referring to.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u72	Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress. That inadmissible value judgment that was...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u73	Tell me the value judgment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u74	With reference to the racial considerations made by the spokesman for the Navarro People's Union that we feel superior to all the citizens of the State. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: It is true]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u76	Madam President, if I have offended Mr Campuzano, I have no problem withdrawing him. Now, I ask you to read the President you have put in the Generalitat of Catalonia, Mr Quim Torra.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy - absent - and Mr Sánchez, today I do not come to speak to you as spokesman for Euskal Herria-Bildu; today we want to be the voice of the outraged Euskal Herria, of the organized and mobilized Euskal Herria, like Arantxa and Antonio, who are retired who go out every Monday on the street to ask for decent pensions. Like Saioa and Mari Cruz, two of the 1,600,000 people - women all - that we stopped on March 8 in Euskal Herria for equality. I speak to you on behalf of the working people who suffer the consequences of Mr Rajoy's policies every day, such as unemployment, precariousness or poverty. In the name of our historical memory, of our anti-Franco tradition which considers it an insult to all the people tortured by Billy the Child that this fascist is decorated and the Government defends him. [[Applauds]] On behalf of those who build peace every day above a government that tries to sabotage it. I speak to you on behalf of young people who have exile as an economic horizon. Also of those of Altsasu, of the raptors, of Evaristo, because they are all part of a Basque people and of the left who long ago considered it urgent and necessary to evict from the Government the People's Party for everything exposed, in addition to for corrupt or for its authoritarian drift. But that said, we ask ourselves a lot of questions. Is Mariano Rajoy the real problem? Is it making Pedro Sánchez president an element of change? Have things changed as a result of the Gürtel judgment? The answer to all these questions is no. That is why we say that it has long been necessary to have acted against the policies of the PP, rather than allowing it to reach the Government when it lost an absolute majority for partisan interests. It was well known to all that the PP was the most corrupt party in Europe, with more than nine hundred public offices involved in corruption cases. Thus, the judgment is only a confirmation that corruption is installed in the PP, since the judgement considers it proven that this party has a B box since its creation, that it weaves an institutional corruption system through mechanisms of manipulation of central, autonomous and local public procurement and that Mariano Rajoy is not credible. By the way, the Gürtel case does not only bear the name of Rajoy, also Aznar, the valiant citizen, who pretends to be a party without macula. [[Applauds]] What has come to confirm the sentence, without waiting for judicial accreditation, was more than obvious and yet they chose to let it govern and support it in its actions, some the PSOE, for sharing with the PP the priority of maintaining the regime of 78 and the unity of Spain above a basic democratic right such as the right to decide, becoming an indispensable sustenance of the government for the implementation of 155; others for party interests, not country interests, which until now have supported a government that acted directly against the Basque agenda, disregarding the pronouncements of the Basque Chamber around the 2018 budgets, which has prevented the defense of our interests as a people, which we should now do in the face of this motion of censorship. Because, government Rajoy or Sánchez, there is, today, no democratizing alternative, there is no correlation of forces that bets on a true democratization of the State and puts a stop to the authoritarian and re-centralizing drift of the PP from the hand of the New Yorker Citizens, a state involution to which, when the situation requires it, the PSOE, as it has been seen in Catalonia. That's why we say that Rajoy and Sánchez are on the same side, that both are part of the problem that we have Basque citizenship in front of an anti-democratic state like the Spanish against which the best option is to break ties. That is why a Sánchez government that announces that its goal is to defend the Constitution and territorial integrity is nothing but continuity, provided that it is useful to defend the 78 regime and the interests of a few because, otherwise, it could change the Constitution again, as Rodríguez Zapatero already did, to put deficit control above social rights. And it is that even in social matters there is not so much the difference between the PP and the PSOE, which during his last term taught him the way to Rajoy, the path to continue to attack social rights. And it was the PSOE that opened the door to the precariousness and impoverishment of the citizenry with the first labor reform, with the reform of the pensions and that, after doing so, repeated one and a thousand times that would push the repeal of the even more harmful laws approved by the PP when it lost the majority. And I ask myself: Where is the proposal for the repeal of the Lomce, the Law on Labour Reform? I'm going to say it: in the drawer, like another unfulfilled promise. And it is that in addition to the support of the regime, responsible for an important part of rights, the PSOE is a party that today defends one thing and tomorrow the opposite, when it does not ask for the transfer of the management of Social Security in the Basque Parliament and votes against in the same petition in Congress, as happened this Tuesday. When we talk about the right to decide, it clings to the law, but on Tuesday they voted in favour of not complying with two laws: the Statute of Gernika and improvement. And we could cite many other examples, such as his attitude to the proposal we made for the reform of the Amnesty Law, necessary to end impunity for the crimes of Francoism, answering us that it could not be because it was one of the pillars of the regime of 78. That's all they're worried about, and that's why we insist that it's not a question of whether the president is called Mariano or Pedro, the main unknown is what they want to rule for and whether they're going to comply or not. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, do not think that the desire we have to evict Mr Rajoy is sufficient and do not think that we trust you. The rejection of Rajoy cannot be confused with support for the PSOE which, even today, we understand is of the same regime as the PP, a regime based on imposition and denial. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am sorry that Mr Rajoy is not here today because we have had good debates and I would have liked to say goodbye to him, but I imagine he must be collecting the papers or preparing the move. [[laughs]] Although it may seem a contradiction, I would like to begin my speech by congratulating Mr Rajoy. It has had a good debate today, it has been happening and, therefore, I am sure that it will play a very great role as leader of the opposition. Gentlemen of the PP - I would have liked to address Mr Rajoy - the function is over. We already know that you don't want to get up from the couch, that you intend to stick to it, but this is over. It ended last week at the National Court when two things were accredited: that the People's Party has functioned as a criminal organization with the Correa group and that the President of the Government lied in court. Yesterday the great ovation that was dedicated to him - even those of today - sounded good-bye. Gentlemen of the PP, as that song from Paloma San Basilio said: The party is over. You have told him even his priority partner, Mr Rivera - who must be preparing his speech on the most terrible day in the world - who is eating the ground for you every day. The song said: The party ended, what happened, happened; don't insist anymore, there's no magic in your hands anymore, the party ended. [[Rumors]] Gentlemen of the PP, you have reached the end of the getaway and today we are here because, as Mrs De Cospedal said, some people did things - some people did things - ugly things - ugly things - illegal. I translate the Castilian so that we understand it: PP officials and activists awarded works and services to friendly companies in exchange for bites and black payments, which fed the B box of the People's Party, with a treasurer - all the Treasurers of the People's Party are charged -, the one who is now in prison, who collected them and who then shared them with the generosity that characterizes the Treasurers of the People's Party, among them to a Mr. Rajoy, who we have not yet found out who he is. That is what the judges have said and, moreover, that the president lied. A president who lies to justice deserves to be president of this country? Would anyone trust a president who lies in court? If you're lying in court, how come you're not gonna lie somewhere else? Mr Rajoy should have made some decision, but we already know that the action verbs don't like them very much. He should have resigned - well, he's still in time to resign -, he should have called elections or presented a question of confidence, but Mr. Rajoy doesn't like verbs of action. We are here - and I read textual - because the PP created a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption through the manipulation of public procurement. You try to discredit this motion of censure by saying Frankenstein Government, Frankenstein motion. Christ! But if the budgets they've put forward are Frankenstein budgets, they've needed seven parties to get them out of the way, and Mr. Rajoy needed six parties to get out of the way. [[applause]] How dare you disqualify a legitimate and constitutional motion, I repeat, constitutional? Each of us here represents thousands of people and voting for anyone who is here deserves respect, the same respect those who voted for the PP, those who voted for Esquerra, PSOE, Citizens, Commitments, Podemos, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera; the same respect. We're scared of what's costing us. Well, look, today the risk premium has gone down and the bag has gone up, in the middle of the motion of censure. And you always talk about markets but never about people. How much has your corruption cost us? How much has your cost cost us? How much have your accounts cost us in Switzerland? How much have the more than 300 isolated cases of corruption of the People's Party cost us? How much? I think the PP should apologize to all those entrepreneurs who bid honestly, presented their claim but never won because they always won the same: those who paid the bite. Friendly companies should ask forgiveness; such companies, self-employed people and workers who lost jobs because their companies never won a public tender. They also want us to believe that either the PP governs or this is chaos, the ten plagues of Egypt come. Hey, there's a lot of stable governments without the PP! A lot! Look: the government of the Botànic - which you said the government of the Titanic, which is going to bite at nothing...-, so, gentlemen, we are ruling, we are ruling well, we are ruling better than when the PP was because we govern for people. [[rumors]] I'll give you a data.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u81	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u82	I give you a fact: business confidence has risen in the Valencian Community in the last quarter, in Navarre and in the Balearic Islands: three governments where the PP is in opposition. So, less wolves! Less wolves! This is a democratic hygiene motion. We decide whether we want this party to rule, whether this president to continue to mark the political time of this country or whether we want to put him in opposition. Today, here, we cannot profile ourselves, we cannot profile ourselves: either we are with decency or we are with corruption. And this goes for Mr. Rivera, who is not, I imagine he must be preparing his speech. Stop the calculator once and for all! Stop looking at the polls! Stop thinking about what's right for Citizens and think for once what's right for Spanish people, what's right for Spanish citizens. The citizens spoke not two years ago and so legitimate was a government as you supported as the one that can get out of here tomorrow, therefore respect any government. And stop playing tricks to get away from it. Tomorrow we take a photo and we have to be either in a photo or in another photo. Citizens, you have to choose, you can't be in both photos at once. I know they like to be in both photos, but here's a picture: decency or indignity. You decide. Mr Sánchez, I suppose in the reply I can tell you what you have not given me time to explain, but before the end I would like to reiterate that we preferred a socialist president to a popular one a long time ago, two years ago. I told him personally, we insisted, we did what we could and couldn't be. I really hope that today Mr. Rajoy will definitely come to Valencian lands, to Santa Pola, to recover his office from the Property Registry. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u83	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez. I'm sorry Mr. Rajoy won't be joining us this afternoon. My friend Joan, the President has certainly been brilliant in his defences, but I believe that he will agree with my colleague Mr Baldoví that a motion of censure motivated by a very serious case of corruption required the assumption of political responsibility by the President of the Government, and that if the President of the Government did not resign for democratic hygiene, the motion of censure was inescapable. [[rumors]] And we're at that stadium. I find the replies of the President of the Government in this matter very regrettable, because he has chosen to minimize the cases of corruption affecting the People's Party and he has opted for the 'and you plus', because his only argument to attack the Socialist Party is 'and you plus'. To restore political confidence in corruption issues is not to turn on the fan or the 'and you more'; it is to assume political responsibilities, which is what happens in the rest of Europe. It is therefore an absolutely justified motion. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, the crisis facing the Spanish State is a systemic crisis of the whole State, which goes beyond this case of corruption. It has to do with the crisis in Catalonia, the degradation of our judicial system and the judiciary and the persistence of Franco culture in our society. [[Applauds]] On the crisis with Catalonia, President Torra recalled in the Parliament: The Catalan question is always the question of democracy and freedom in Spain. And it is true that a State with solid democratic values, with maturity, that was not afraid of democracy, would have found legal avenues to address the legitimate demands of Catalan society for national recognition and fair treatment. President Rajoy chose otherwise. He initially chose to ignore that reality. He then waited for the time to dilute this problem and when he found that the institutions of Catalonia persisted in their commitments to the citizens and that the Catalans accompanied the sovereignist political parties in the defense of self-determination and in the defense of the desire of their own State, the President of the Government opted for the clash of trains, for police violence. And, ladies and gentlemen, in our collective memory are the police charges of October 1 that we will never forget, the criminal complaints, the twisting of criminal law, the repression and the persecution of innocent citizens. [[applause]] The consequences, ladies and gentlemen, are disastrous for the rule of law and for the freedoms of all: people unjustly imprisoned for political reasons, abusing the figure of pre-trial detention; disproportionate and unjustified accusations about crimes that do not exist; absolutely demented prison sentences and citizens who have had to seek refuge in Europe, seeking in Europe the justice that there is in Spain, and Europe gives us reason in their justices. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, rights and freedoms have been violated on behalf of the State and on behalf of the unity of the homeland, and Mariano Rajoy is the main political leader. Secondly, the deterioration of the rule of law, the feeling of citizens that the separation of powers does not work. In this House we have experienced two absolutely entrepreneurship situations in terms of the rule of law. The Minister of Justice is repudiated by the House for attempting to manipulate and interfere in the prosecution in matters of PP corruption. The House reprobates it and the minister does not resign. And the minister is offended because I have a yellow tie on my lapel? [[Applauds]] What offends the Democrats is that the minister has not resigned. Or we also live the anti-democratic spectacle of the former Minister of the Interior. The Chamber finds that it organized a plot of corrupt police officers to build false evidence. The Chamber finds that it is attempting to manipulate the prosecution and, has anyone resigned? Has anyone assumed any political responsibility? Has there been any legal action? Ladies and gentlemen, the judges, the prosecutors are demonstrating their concern about the independence of the judiciary at the highest levels of the judiciary, and all European surveys on the perception of justice in Spain put us behind bars for the absence of such judicial independence. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the State, on behalf of the unity of the homeland, on behalf of party interests, the rule of law and justice are being called into question. Finally, there is the persistence of that Francoist culture. The authoritarianism with which the Government and the State have responded to the democratic demand of Catalan society can only be understood from this Francoist position that continues to permeate so many elements of Spanish political culture. Or even the rise of Citizens as a radical hypernationalist force, which is the expression of the depth of Francoism still in broad sectors of our society. [[Applauds]] How can a party that claims to be liberal practice such liberalism and ethnicism in addressing the Catalan question? Today Citizens are part of the problem and not of the solution, and they are not its voters but their leaders and their partisan and irresponsible strategies. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Francoism is present. In Europe today they are perplexed when they discover that in the Valley of the Fallen still honors the dictator and founder of the Spanish fascist party or when even on the roads the victims of Francoism have not been recovered. Ladies and gentlemen, the new and old generations deserve that Francoism, that which the transition, which had a huge success, did not close well, should be definitively closed. And Mariano Rajoy is responsible for not closing that page. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez has tabled this motion of censure and is certainly an opportunity. It's up to him and it's up to the Socialist Party. The PSOE has responsibilities in this situation of deterioration and degradation and, in particular, in the failure of the State to address the crisis in Catalonia. He was also responsible for the implementation of article 155. In our view, he remained silent in the face of the repression and violation of the rights and freedoms produced in Catalonia and in recent weeks he pointed to the Spanish nationalist auction against Catalan sovereignism. It came to offend the highest institution representing the Catalans, which is the president of the Generalitat, and that is unacceptable. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, at the entrance, trust, not much. They say they are not the same as the PP and know that in Catalonia broad sectors of Catalan society are skeptical of this statement. However, today in your debate with Mr Rajoy you have made some statements that we appreciate. They have their political importance and no one can ignore them. First, that the rule governing Catalonia, its status of autonomy, was not endorsed by the Catalans and that the origin of the political problem lies in the appeal of the Constitutional Court and its judgment. It has recognised - we understand it as a correction - Mr Torra as President of the Generalitat and valid political interlocutor and that we are facing a political problem that requires political solutions. These are statements that we value. It is up to us to look to the future and give us a new opportunity to channel a political problem through politics. What does it mean to listen, to understand, to dialogue, to agree on what can only be resolved democratically? To understand, ladies and gentlemen, that all ideas in democracy must be able to defend themselves and are legitimate. Sovereignism, independence, Catalan republicanism are democratic, civic, peaceful and legitimate in democratic terms. It is a question of recognizing each other as valid interlocutors in order to channel a political conflict through democratic means and to respect and recognize the reasons of more than 2 million Catalans who defend self-determination, independence and the aspiration to a republic. Without understanding that, that these reasons are profound and must be channelled through the democratic path, without understanding that a powerful and solid democracy is one capable of imagining agreed legal and political solutions that respond to a democratic mandate of the citizenry, the crisis that has been experienced in Catalonia is hardly going to be resolved in the democratic sense that we all need to resolve. Resolving it in the democratic sense that we all have to know how to resolve it is the democratic sense with which these kinds of conflicts and situations are resolved in Europe in the twenty-first century, fundamentally seeking political agreement and having confidence in the capacity of citizens to decide through the democratic mechanisms that democratic societies are capable of constituting. Mr. Sanchez, you have a chance. We're skeptical, we're suspicious. We've lived what we've lived. There's a lot of pain in Catalonia. There's a lot of indignation. There are many citizens who will find it difficult to understand our vote today. You can understand that our vote is for Mr Rajoy to leave, because in that in Catalonia unanimity is evident. Today the People's Party in Catalonia is the last party in the Parliament, with four seats, behind the radicals of the CUP. In Catalonia, therefore, the unanimity on Rajoy leaving is absolute, but, Mr Sánchez, it is not so obvious that this means that the Members of the Democratic Party today support him in this motion of censure. It's going to depend on you. In the reply that we still have, we will be very attentive to his words from the conviction that the citizens we represent, and among all, deserve to be given one last chance and to make one last effort to find a political and democratic solution to the question of Catalonia. I think it's worth it and we'll all do well to seize this opportunity. Our democratic convictions of progress, well-being, freedom and equality oblige us to do so. We'll be up to it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u86	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u87	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u88	Thanks to all the speakers of the Joint Parliamentary Group for expressing their positions and being clear. To those who will vote in favour of the motion of censure, thank you. To those who will not vote in favour, if there is finally a government and there is a government, I hope that with action and, above all, with conversation and dialogue we will be able to amend those reticences and difficulties so that you understand what the Socialist Party and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are doing with this motion of censure and we can all move the country forward. I will respond personally to each of the interveners. The turn of speeches was started by the deputy Pedro Quevedo of Nueva Canarias. I would like to thank you for your support for the inauguration of the Socialist candidate two years ago and for your support for the motion of censure tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, above all, Mr Quevedo, to do so with the assertion that this motion of censure is legitimate. It is legitimate because it is based on article 113 of the Constitution. It is legitimate because it is saying that what needs to be done is to demand political responsibility from those who do not assume their political responsibility and, consequently, force this House to table the motion of censure, because they cannot go uncensored of the acts that have been sentenced by the National Court last week. It also puts into debate - I think it is important to do so in order to educate public opinion and, above all, to tell us all the truths - that this is not a matter of having or not having fear of the ballot box. It is a matter of the fact that the motion of censure, as thought and argued in our Constitution, is not destructive. It is not a motion of censure in which instrumental candidates are elected simply and plainly to call elections, but of course what needs to be done is to propose a government that guarantees, in my opinion - and that is what I have intended to do throughout my speech in the morning - a sort of stability programme, a stability programme in various areas that concern citizens, whether social, environmental or territorial - because I do not escape that you also care; moreover, you have made reference to this and then I will come to this issue - and of course the macroeconomic and budgetary aspects. It is true - and you have said it well - that it is not the General Budgets of the State of the People's Party, even if it is actually in government. You, as a Member of the New Canary Islands, have defended the interests of the land you represent and, by the way, have not done anything wrong. As I told Mr Rajoy during the debate I had with the President of the Government, these are not our budgets. We consider, as you have rightly said, that there are many gaps that have to do with the social, with the issues that were precisely inscribed in the electoral coalition agreement that we had with you - by the way, it was the only party that we are in coalition with in the 2015 and 2016 electoral processes - but precisely what we are going to do is to respect those General State Budgets because we did not want this motion of censure nor did we of course choose the date to present it; it was logically because of the ruling of the corruption of the party that currently governs Spain and, above all, above all, the lack of response by the President of the Government. I have told you on many occasions, Mr Quevedo, and you will allow me to share it also with the House: this was not my political work schedule, it was another completely different, it was to prepare my party, the party that I lead, so that I could be able to win the municipal, autonomous and European elections of May 2019 and, secondly, to prepare the political proposal to be once again the first political force in this country when the elections could be called. I therefore thank him for his support of the motion of censure, for qualifying as legitimate an instrument that is in our constitutional order and that, therefore, it is just as legitimate as the defence of calling for elections that others make, and of course I transfer our commitment to the fulfilment of the 2018 General Budgets, I hold his hand so that the same negotiating effort that he has had with the current government will also have it with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and with the Government that can eventually be lit up from this motion of censure for the 2019 budgets and also logically transfer the commitment of both the Socialist Parliamentary Group and my own to accompany in the decision of the electoral process the logical renewal of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy, which I understand has a lot of consensus from the Canarian Chamber, and also of course from the Canary Islands' regime, from the REF. I find it very difficult to defeat Mrs Oramas because I have her personal appreciation and political respect. The fact that you, on behalf of the Canary Coalition, when we took a step forward two years ago and put forward a candidacy for the Presidency of the Government to support you, makes me have political respect and affection for you personally and politically. I'm very sorry for the reasons you've given. I hope that, over the course of these months, with the action of any government that may emerge from this motion of censure, you will be able to remedy your concerns about why we have tabled the motion of censure. But what I can assure you, Mrs Oramas, is that we are going to be talking to the Joint Group and, of course, to the Canary Coalition, which is a party of government and, therefore, is very aware also, as we are, of the extraordinarily complex circumstances in which this Government would be brought to light and of the limitations it logically has - the first of which is that we would have to manage, I say on condition, budgets that we have not supported and that we have also rejected with reasons that I consider current - but that is the context in which we would have to act and I hope that they will also reassure you of the commitments that I have made with the Member of New Canary Islands to respect the debate on the Canary Islands Statute and the REF, which is currently being tabled. Mrs Oramas, I'll give you a thought, if you'll allow me. There are nationalist court parties and yours is: Coalition Canaria is a nationalist court party that defends the interests of the way you consider a society like the Canary Islands legitimate. At this new stage, Mrs Oramas, at this new opportunity that we can all take in this House, it is time for us to lower the piston in the dialectic of territorial confrontation. I don't think there are any personalities who can be either better or worse than you or me. We each defend the model of society we defend. It is clear that in the positions maintained by the Socialist Party - I said this earlier in my speech in the debate with the President of the Government - on respect for the Constitution, compliance and enforcement of the Constitution are beyond doubt, Mrs Oramas. I believe that it is precisely what should be blamed on the President of the Government or the People's Parliamentary Group that it has taken just a second to see the loss of power at risk and that they are once again taking out the territorial crisis, terrorism, the economic crisis or the doubts that may arise over things that have nothing to do with Spanish politics. In short, I believe that if there are precisely parliamentary groups that should make an effort to understand that plural Spain, that Spain in which the self-government of its autonomy is claimed, that Spain is aware that political decentralization and also democracy have always gone hand in hand in our history and that that is precisely the great lesson and the great success of the 1978 Constitution, we will all be doing a great favour to the democracy that you consider is weakened as a result of the motion of censure. I deny the greatest, Mrs. Oramas. I believe that the message that this House is going to send, if this motion of censure succeeds, is that it is aware that the President of the Government was calling into question the quality and minimum democratic requirements for political responsibility, and that he has said enough, he has said it is over. [[Applauds]] It is also clear - you have said that, Mrs Oramas, and other speakers, to which I will also refer - that it is important to improve pensions, dependency or employment. For example, the unit was set up by a socialist administration. It is precisely the socialist administrations that are, as I said in my first speech, supporting to a large extent the national system of dependence as a result of the cuts that have been made by the General Administration of the State. In short, what I want to say to you, Mrs Oramas, is that all these issues of pension, dependency or employment are, of course, important, vital for a social democratic party like ours, but we must also be aware of the context and the complexity in which the task of this executive could be carried out. I hold your hand, even though you do not support this motion of censure, so that we can dialogue and speak in the interest of Canarian society. Mr Martínez, of Foro Asturias, has called into question the Socialist Party's constitutional commitment. Do not forget, Mr Martínez, that the Socialist Party's commitment to the Spanish Constitution is unequivocal. We are the only party, if I may, that voted on the 1978 Constitution. The People's Parliamentary Group was then called the People's Alliance and the rest of the political formations had other names or simply did not support it. When we defend the argument that we have exercised a state opposition it is precisely an exercise of coherence with our own past, with the past of a party that feels and is recognized in the Spanish Constitution. So much so and so much we defend our Constitution that we are very aware that Spain of 2018 is not Spain of 1978 and that, consequently, we will have to update our norm of coexistence, our constitutional norm. I believe that issues such as the assessment committee of our territorial model or the possible debate that can be opened in this House, if the parliamentary groups so agree, on the need to renew our constitutional pact are also a good way to claim the validity and strength of our Constitution. I insist, this will be something that we will propose to the House and the House will be able to decide whether or not to follow the government that could emerge from this motion of censure. With regard to corruption, I am not going in because I would have very easy arguments, Mr Martínez. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u89	One second, Your Honor. I just want to tell you that this is not a chat room, that whoever wants to chat goes outside the Chamber. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u90	Thank you, Madam President. When we talk about corruption and talk about Forum Asturias, man, if you look at who was the founder of Forum Asturias, I understand that talking about the Gürtel is uncomfortable for you. But let's move on and talk about the issues that affect Asturias. I am very drawn to the attention that you say that the Socialist Party has not been a party committed to Asturias when the levels of public investment that have been recorded in Asturias when it ruled the Socialist Party in Spain have always been the highest. Therefore, in good logic, if you defended Asturias's interests - I suggest it to you, just in case you could reflect and even amend your first intervention - I think it would not be wrong for Asturias to have a socialist administration in the coming months. [[Applauds]] In any case, of course, there are issues that have drawn my attention over the past few weeks. The other day I heard the Minister of Development say that if the socialists came to the government of Spain little less than the investments of the AVE to Asturias would be paralyzed. I say to you, Mr Martínez, that it is not - and I have also been explicit in my first speech - that we will logically respect the execution of the works that have been budgeted on infrastructure by the present Government; there is no other, because they are obviously not our budgets, but we will certainly not fail to comply with the agreement of this House. With regard to the autonomous financing that you have not touched but which the President of Asturias, of course, along with other autonomous presidents, has claimed on transcendental issues such as the ageing of the population or the difficulties that can be registered in Asturias with the current model, I tell you that we are not going to solve or renew the autonomous financing because there will most likely be no members to be able to achieve it. But I am holding hands logically with the Joint Group and also with you so that among all of us we can at least begin to build that consensus necessary to finance the welfare state that is in the hands of the autonomous communities today. I give you one more reason. I believe that this Government has done precisely what it has done is to breach the agreements with the mining sector in Asturias, so I do not understand why a party that is said to be the Forum of Asturias and therefore defends Asturias's interests is to perpetuate a Government that has done precisely what it has done is to leave the mining basins, not to comply with the National Coal Plan, and above all and most importantly not to give a way out, not to give a future to many workers who need it. Mr Ali, from UPN, has made me happy because precisely the comrades of the Socialist Party in Navarre who are following this debate through social networks and the media, when you have shown that it is a party that fulfills, have told me: UPN signed with us an agreement in Navarre and at eleven months broke it. [[ccccccccc]] It must be that you always keep the word but with the People's Party, not with the rest of the political formations. [[Applauds]] Anyway, if we're so bad, Mr. There, I don't understand why your leader, Mr. Esparza, is doing what he's doing is asking the Navarra Socialist Party to rule with them in Navarra; I think it's quite contradictory to say one thing and the other. [[ccccccccc]] I tell you, in any case, that we will certainly always support governments of progress in Navarre and not conservative governments precisely of parties like yours, which align themselves with the People's Party. You call for immediate general elections and say so to a democratic party, deeply democratic in its forms of election. There are other parties that don't, but I think that's at least a guarantee seal. I am not going to ask you to believe me, I am not going to ask you to question whether I want elections or not, but it will not call into question the historic democratic commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and therefore our clear will to call elections. But I tell you one thing, Mr. There, this is a motion of constructive censorship. [[ccccccccc]] What is being discussed is whether or not you consider that President Mariano Rajoy should continue after the Gürtel case is heard. You can dress the monkey as you like, your decision as you see it, but here there are no intermediate ways, it is a yes or it is a no. Here the abstention, since 176 Members are needed for the absolute majority, is comparable to voting no. Therefore, you and your group, the formation of UPN, what you will be doing again is a subjection exercise once again - you will allow me at least to say so - to the political position of the People's Party. But of course what I am going to defeat you, Mr. There, is that you consider this option to be more democratic than the other one. [[ccccccccc]] No, this is the only one; even for those who are defending electoral advancement, the only possible proposal is to support this motion of censure. So, in an exercise of coherence, what you would have to do is support this motion of censure, because you have already seen that I have told the President of the Government: you resign here and the motion of censure is over. What was the answer? Shut up for an answer. That is, logically the President of the Government will not resign from his duties. With this, if you consider that those political responsibilities have to be assumed, if you consider that in addition to those political responsibilities that have to be assumed you have to call elections, we will be able to disagree in time, in time, but in what we cannot disagree - and in that I believe we will be able to agree - is that the only possible way is to support this motion of censure. [[Applauds]] I will tell EH Bildu's spokesman that I understand that you consider the Socialist Party, and in addition to that, I do not say the 78's regime, because I think that is an unfortunate expression that has been used by other parliamentary groups in the past and I hope that at least that has been left behind, but yes to the 1978 Constitution, the Constitution that we have all the citizens who share this common project called Spain; I insist that what we have to do is to strengthen that common project, which is called Spain in view of the diversity of its territories and also finding points in common. Where can those points be in common with some of the elements that you have raised in your speech? Of course, in the defence and strengthening of the public pension system. I know and am very aware that in particular and in a surprising way - it will allow me to say this - in the Basque Country there have been huge mobilizations by retired and retired people denouncing the devaluation and insustainability of the public pension system as a result of many of the reforms that the People's Party has made over the past few years. We consider, as you said in your speech, labour reform as one of the main elements. It should be noted that we now have the same number of contributors as before the crisis and, on the other hand, there is less entry into the Social Security box as a result of the type of jobs that are being created. In any case, if it were because of this issue of the challenge we face in the public pension system, in its sustainability and dignity, I believe that the Socialist Parliamentary Group would deserve a vote of confidence because we are precisely the only political organisation that has put forward solutions in this House. Solutions that not only have to do with opening up the debate on a new status of workers, which is already advancing for you than for us in this legislature, if there was a government that prospered as a result of this motion of censure, logically we could not open up because it would not be up to us, but we have also opened up the debate on the need to combine and supplement income to social security contributions with the creation of tax, specific and final figures for the issue of pensions. [[Applauds]] Even the Government itself has recognized in the proposal it made in the Toledo Pact Commission the need to open that debate and raised the issue of taxing large technological corporations. I do not say that this has to be the solution, what I am saying is that there is already a sort of consensus that with social security contributions it will not be enough to meet the demographic challenge, it will not be enough to deal with the hangover from the crisis of structural or long-term unemployment that is currently suffering our country, and we will logically have to give a chance to a sustainable public pension system and also worthy of retirement. I share with you the analysis you have made on the Law gag. That has been one of the points in my speech, our commitment to repeal the most controversial articles that have been appealed to the Constitutional Court by the Socialist and other opposition parliamentary groups. I cannot share with you the position you have expressed and held by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in relation to the Amnesty Act. Precisely what we did was to submit an amendment to the Historical Memory Act, which I believe is really what we have to do, modify it and not alter a law that involved the consensus of people of very different ideology, both of the Communist Party and of centro-right parties. The question of feminism I would like to link with something you have commented on, Madam Spokesman. You say little less that, in relation to social rights, the Socialist Party and the People's Party are the same. I obviously have to say no, but I also believe that when we talk about issues related to gender equality, the Socialist Party, when it was in the government, has passed an Equality Act, has passed a Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption Act that equated us with the most advanced countries in this area in the European Union, has passed a law on combating gender-based violence that was a pioneer, and even coinciding with the Presidency of the European Union has raised the need to open up the debate on a directive related to gender-based violence that was precisely criticized in this case of the conservative bench. I believe that the Socialist Party's commitment to social rights, which is very different, radically different from that of the People's Party, is beyond doubt, among other things, because when the People's Party was in opposition, it precisely appealed many of these laws to the Constitutional Court, as you know. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, I thank you very much for the position, I thank you very much for the support. Obviously in the Valencian Community the Gürtel plot and everything it represents has been one of the main epicentres. I agree with you that it is not only Mr Rajoy who is going to suffer the censorship of this House, let us hope that with the absolute majority, and therefore tomorrow is his last day as President of the Government, but, to some extent, he is the proposer of this motion of censure because he should have resigned. Finally, it will remain in the Journal of Sessions, because I do not know how many times I have asked you to resign this morning, but I do believe that you had the opportunity to take on those responsibilities in the House. It has not done so and, therefore, it is the responsibility of the various parliamentary groups right now. I thank you very much and I would also like to say that we are going to follow the inspiration and example of the Valencian Government in many areas. For example, today I have referred to the fact that we are going to put an end to that decree which was adopted by the absolute parliamentary majority of the People's Parliamentary Group in the first of the mandates, in the first of Mr Rajoy's legislatures, which was precisely what he was doing to break the universality of public health by expelling hundreds of thousands of people, including foreigners. I know that this has been one of the fundamental issues of the Government of the Valencian Generalitat. Also the recovery and the public reversal of hospitals that were in the process of being privatized by the previous administrations of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In short, in all those issues between partners of government in the Valencian Community - which we are - that have to do with the need to provide more funding to a clearly underfunded community, such as the Valencian Community, you know that you will count my empathy, with my sympathy, and of course we will try among all to lay the groundwork for that agreement to be achieved. Mr Campuzano, spokesman for the PDECAT, I thank you that the doubts are the adjusted ones, the limited ones to give an opportunity - I would never say that it is the last opportunity; there is always a last chance and I am convinced that this is not the last - to be able to establish bridges of dialogue within Catalan society, where there is also a fracture - we must recognize it, Mr Campuzano - and between Catalan society and the whole of Spanish society. I have been the secretary general of the Socialist Party for the past four years and you will agree with me that, more or less correctly, the Socialist Party at state level is the only party that has remained and taken the crisis in Catalonia seriously. We have offered a way out, we have offered and drawn a constitutional road map based on consensus, on dialogue; a road map that basically came to say that we are facing a political crisis whose main reason is the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Catalonian Autonomy Statute, which was voted by the Catalans and which, logically, does not take place in that framework right now. We will have to give this a solution among all of us. I can assure you that in the dialogue, in the negotiation and in the pact they will have the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also my person. It's just a sense of patriotism. I have always argued, with great controversy, Mr Campuzano, that, as I said earlier in my speech, Spain is a nation, but that there are also territories that feel like such. The point of discrepancy that we have, which I believe is what we have to solve, is precisely to link identity, being a nation, with the State or with the exercise of sovereignty that, logically, must be shared with the rest of the territories in order to guarantee the territorial integrity and unity of the peoples of Spain. I believe that there are mechanisms - as the Constitutional Court has said in its judgments - which we have to explore in order to guarantee this common project between Catalan society and the whole of Spanish society. That's where they're gonna find us. In this we are very clear, Mr Campuzano, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of the PDECAT; we, always within the Constitution, always within the Statute of Autonomy, will be found. From there, let us build bridges between Catalan society, today deeply divided, fractured, and not repeat mistakes of the past that have led us to the situation in which we are, to unilateralism, and of course, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, also reaching out to them to find points of union. Years ago, various former Presidents of the Generalitat offered around forty points in agreement with the Government of Spain. When you read them, you are aware that many points can be perfectly shared by other autonomous governments. Let's give that a chance. A few days ago I heard Mr Torra that there have been various laws passed by the Parliament of Catalonia that have been laid down by the Constitutional Court on account of the action of the Government of Spain. There are laws that we could talk about, dialogue about, and that have something to do with something you have commented on before, which is social cohesion, which is necessary in our country and also in Catalonia. That's where we can meet, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT. Let us talk, let us dialogue, let us try to find an agreement, a pact, and just as you ask us to be responsible, I ask you too. In what way? It seems to me that it is important to close the fractures that exist right now in Catalan society. In that regard, I am convinced that you will also find the party of the Catalan Socialists. I share with you that there has been pain, indignation over the past few years, and to that we have to respond with future and hope. On that path, Mr Campuzano, I can assure you that you will find me and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u91	Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for a reply by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, we thank you for your reply to our speech and say that we are perfectly aware that we signed an agreement on your day which had more content than this one we are celebrating today, which is to support your motion of censure, and ultimately your investiture, which is what we would really be supporting. And we do so with satisfaction, because it is not only the product of an agreement that we should have had to comply with, but also because we understand that you are, as I pointed out in my previous speech, in the right direction. I have heard you say that the budget was particularly well negotiated by the New Canary Islands, yes - I have a recognition of the work we have done with the Government in this area - but I have to say one thing, in that agreement there is not a single whim, so there is not a single whim that I believe the Socialist Party has practically supported all our amendments, because the agreements there, which are indeed good and historic in many cases, are because they correct intolerable situations that have been suffering from canarian society for more than thirty years. To that extent, I trust that when he tells us that the agreement was very good, it is not because they do not pass, but because it was what had to be done. We are satisfied, we have personal recognition with whom we have to have it and we must remember that New Canarias is not characterized by dedicating itself to fireworks but by defending, with the corresponding seriousness, the interests of our land and the general interests to the extent of our forces, which is that of a Member. Not bad, but it's not much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u93	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I thank you very much for your tone and your words. You know that the Canary Islands Coalition will always have a sense of state, as we demonstrated at a certain moment that you recalled in an intervention, when the People's Party did not have that sense, although we had our electoral cost; that Spain was not intervened thanks to Mr Durán i Lleida and this Member. He knows that he will always find us in the defense of the interests of the Canary Islands, in the defense of a model of state. The response he has given at this time on the Catalan issue, with the status that the Canary Islands Coalition supported, like the Socialist Party, within the Constitution, we will find ourselves. We are not concerned that the Socialist Party governs this country, we are not concerned that you are the president, because we know him and share a lot of things, we are concerned about his fellow travellers. I would like to say that if you win this motion, the Canary Coalition will reach out to the President of the Government who will come out and find us always, first of all, in the defence of the interests of the Canary Islands, and also in the defence of the interests of this country. We are not concerned, Coalition Canaria has ruled in democracy by supporting the governments of the PSOE and the People's Party, always from the defense of the land, but also from the defense of a concept of country, of respect for the Constitution and legality. That's where he's gonna find us. Coalition Canaria extends its hand like any president of the government, but we are worried about these fellow travellers and we are worried about something else; we need the statute, the economic and fiscal regime and the new system of autonomous financing to be approved in this legislature. A rush in the advance of the elections would bring us back to the exit box; the uncertainty of an election and of vital issues for the future of my land is what is causing us doubts. That is why I announce that on the basis of that speech that you have made, with a small hope and a vote of confidence, as I gave you two years ago, the Canary Islands Coalition is going to abstain at this time by the decision of my political force. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Ladies and gentlemen, silence. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say it again. And I ask the honourable senators who also have to observe the Rules of Procedure, which says that the floor is given by the Speaker of the House and only the person who is in use of it has the right to speak. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have asked you very specific questions, Mr Sánchez, and you have escaped the package and have left us eager to know that with you at the head of the government the secessionists who are going to support you unconditionally will not be favored in your claim to break Spain. Mr Sánchez, you can't fix Spain with those who want to break it. It's of elementary common sense. He has referred to the PSOE's commitment to the Constitution, which no one has questioned, but let me correct a falsehood that you have slipped into this rostrum. In 1978, the People's Alliance called for a vote in favour of the Constitution in the referendum - its president, Manuel Fraga, was one of the admired parents of the Constitution - and I also say that Forum voted against the constitutional reform of article 135, and we do not deny it. You voted in favour and I think you have it hidden in your resume. It has also left unanswered the concerns that plague many Asturians. What guarantees would we have that the public accounts will be executed by President Sánchez? None, none. In Asturias we already know them. Is the PSOE going to keep in Asturias what its party cancelled as a government in relation to high speed? And the thermals, whose closure voted in favour of the Congress of Deputies? What about the South-West highway, ardently abandoned? We have memory, and the INE certifies it. The PSOE in Asturias stopped everything: AVE; motorways; motorway of the sea; coal, here in Madrid and Brussels, Commissioner Almunia. Don't make us laugh, please. Finally, since you and the Socialist Group have invoked the fight against corruption to justify this motion of censure, I asked you about the cases of corruption that mark the Socialist Party in Asturias. Not a word. And finally, I repeat, you, Mr Sánchez, with your occasional fellow travellers who have weakened Spain and conjured themselves to continue to do so, with your lack of commitment to complete the great projects for Asturias, with your ominous silence before socialist corruption has been evident in this motion of censure. For Spain and for Asturias it would not be bad if you were president, it would be a calamity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, my last name is Alli, not There, and I would like to thank you, with all due respect, for addressing me with my last name correctly, which is without accent. We have a fear, Mr. Sanchez, with you. This predictable Government, which seems to be going ahead, we understand that it will be that of inconsistency, posture and inconsistency. I'm going to put two arguments to you, Mr. Sanchez. First of all, you have spoken here of a constructive motion, but your partners are going to be anything but building the unity of this country. Secondly, your colleagues in the Socialist Group have called the General Budgets of the State during the Commission and in the Plenum of Antisocials and Austericide, and you said here today that with these General Budgets of the State they will continue. I think these are two compelling arguments to tell you that you are going to be the future government of inconsistency and inconsistency. I will tell you again with all due respect, Mr Sánchez, the Socialist Party of Navarre for twenty-three years has ruled by supporting the Navarro People's Union, and thanks to the policies developed in Navarre at the end of 2015, we had the best social protection system, the lowest drop-out rate and the lowest unemployment rate. That with a stable agreement between the Socialist Party and the Navarro People's Union. But today, here, you have set a dangerous precedent, especially from the autonomous elections in the Navarra Foral Community to see which party you can set up a possible government in Navarra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u99	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u100	Thank you very much, President. Mr Sánchez, for everyone to be clear, our vote is going to be in favour of democratic hygiene. In the balance what weighs is that this motion of censure serves to evict the PP of the Government, because it is the most corrupt party in Europe - I have already said - for its antisocial policies, because it is and is the jailers of the prisoners and of Euskal Herria, because it is the Government of 155 that acted violently against more than two million Catalans that the only thing they wanted was to decide their future and that it has in prison politicians that only they did pay attention to the mandate of the citizenry. It is also a yes to a motion to a government that honors Francoists - in addition to decorating them - who pardons torturers, who imprison tweeters. It is an active government against peace and normalization in Euskal Herria. I could list a lot of issues that make Euskal Herria Bildu stand in favour of evicting the People's Party of the Government, as I have done on countless occasions when the reproaches of ministers have been brought here because, ultimately, they are also a way of replicating the Government's action and thus saying what is thought of it. You told me that you're defending the Constitution and that you don't like us talking about the 78's regime. Surely we will have an opportunity to talk about the long and extended Constitution. In Euskal Herria this Constitution did not achieve sufficient support to consider it legitimate, so there is an open debate. This debate we had already in the investiture, whether it is the law before democracy or whether the law has to be at the service of democracy. I hope that one day we can have a real debate on this issue. He also spoke to me about public and social policies. I have not said that you are the same, I have said that you are not so different, that I think it is not the same. In any case, Euskal Herria Bildu will always be willing to talk about how the public pension system is strengthened, how pensions are dignified, but it will allow me to tell you that this requires reversing the reforms carried out. I hope that they will join that claim, which is already popular and widespread in Basque society, that a minimum pension must have 1080 euros. I insist, this is what leads us to yes, not a confidence that the PSOE is different or that the PSOE is going to make us change our main opinion, which is that today we believe that there is no possibility of democratizing the Spanish State and that the right to decide and the people's anxieties have real place and can materialize in what citizens decide. You said that you want to talk to all political formations and to the autonomous governments; the last week you have done rather the opposite, I hope that will change. Euskal Herria Bildu will always be open to dialogue to talk about what we agree on and what we do not, because that is what dialogue is about, to talk about absolutely everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think Mr Rajoy should be here, a lot of people are telling me about tweets; I think it would have been a worthy way to end it. But, anyway, everyone does what they think they should do. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you know that we have always bet on what that book of Ernest Lluch said, on the Valencian way, on the Government of the Botanic, and we bet on that Prado Agreement because, we insist, two years ago we could be ruling. Sure, Mr. Sanchez, there wouldn't be forty paralyzed laws here. I'm sure the law bites or the labor reform would have passed. [[Rumors]] I'm sure there would be a decent president in RTVE, who would apply the Dependency Act, who would have raised pensions long ago or who would have had a history of the pharmaceutical co-op. So many and so many things we could have done by now. But in Compromís we do not like to look to the past, we want to look to the present and the future. This is past This is future Therefore, let us look to the future. [[pointing to the seats on the right of the Chamber]] [[pointing to the seats on the left of the Chamber]] Today we will vote for your candidature as President and reiterate our commitment to a Government of progress. We did so with that attempt of the Prado Agreement and we have always done so. But you are not a majority, and you will therefore have to negotiate. For us, the funding system is paramount. We like your sympathy, we like your empathy, but what we want is your commitment and your willingness to do what these gentlemen did not do, as they were obliged to do when they had absolute majority. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Therefore, a financing system is absolutely indefatigable. We need to talk about the debt. We need to talk about the laws that these gentlemen paralyze, laws that go to the people there and that these gentlemen and ladies paralyze. [[Notes the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] To finish; do not let us down, Mr. Sánchez. It does not disappoint so many people who put their hope in that we were able to build a clean, honest, honest government; a government that works for people and for the coexistence of peoples. It is possible, Mr Sánchez; it is possible, honourable Members, if tomorrow we make Mariano Rajoy and the PP history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I thank you for coming in to answer each and every one of the parliamentary groups. I thank you for the tone, words and attitude with which you have focused this debate and announce that, from the discrepancy, we will support this motion of censure to put an end to Mariano Rajoy's stage. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, Mr Sánchez, there is an opportunity if there is not finally what the media are announcing today, which is that attempt by the President of the Government to abort the success of this motion of censure. It would be a genuine democratic fraud because it would prove that the motion of constructive censorship does not exist in Spain. Let's see what happens. If this stage, with parliamentary support, is launched, the months of this political time will have to be used. These almost two years of legislature have been profoundly useless, this House has blocked dozens of bills and proposals of law from all opposition groups, so this is also a vote to get to work on democratic regeneration, recovery of freedoms, recovery of rights. We have some economic and social challenges that citizens would also not understand that we were not able to address. Therefore, the MPs and MPs of the Democratic Party, as always, in a proactive and constructive attitude in the search for solutions and answers to the problems of society, and uniquely of the citizens we represent in this House, who are the citizens of our country, of Catalonia. Mr Sánchez, I would also like if we started this new stage, to be able to spread social and political climates and not to make things easy for those who only know how to live from political tension. There is someone in Spain today who has electoral expectations precisely because political tension is the only means in which he is able to move. We are not going to make it easy for them, that is, by denouncing those policies, in our view, absolutely reactionary. In this sense, I recognize that what has been lived in Catalonia during these years has polarized Catalan society in political terms, but I cannot share the idea that Catalan society has fractured, fortunately, because, in general, beyond the political debate, Catalans, whether born in Catalonia or in any corner of Spain, speak Catalan or speak Spanish, whether their surnames of the whole life of Catalonia or are the fruit of the other Catalans described by Paco Candel, have an enormous common sense. They have lived with pain and indignation what has happened, perhaps different pains and indignations, and I value that you make reference to that pain. No minister of this Government has wanted to recognize that pain. There is no social divide; there is a society that has a democratic challenge, which seeks to address it politically and which, by virtue of its political and civic tradition, only understands that democracy can solve these issues. Last message, Mr Sánchez, for you and for the whole House. This motion of censure is the expression that in Spain one cannot rule against Catalonia, which one who rules against Catalonia ends up losing the trust of the institutions and society as a whole. Today Catalonia has once again been a decisive player in political change in Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u105	Thank you. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Thanks again to Pedro Quevedo for his intervention, for his support and for the demand he has made for the negotiation he has achieved in the General Budgets of the State. I would also like to thank Mrs Oramas for picking up the glove, for raising some of the things that Mr Quevedo had also mentioned earlier on about the status of autonomy, about the REF, and about the doubts that in fact raise that general elections should be called in a hasty manner before this issue is resolved in the Congress of Deputies. We understand and empathize with this reflection, and I believe that in the coming months we will be able to see how we can accompany or accommodate both issues. Mr Martínez, of Foro Asturias, I am sorry to disagree with you again. I think I have been quite clear, not so much with the word, but also with the facts on what the Socialist Party's position has been with regard to its vision on the territorial issue, on our territorial coexistence. We are the group that for the first time in this decade has created the only space for parliamentary dialogue that exists right now between the various forces to talk about the territorial issue, and I encourage all parliamentary groups to participate in it. With regard to investments in Asturias, I guarantee you that they will be implemented and that we will try, within the limits we have, to respond to your concerns. The Member There - Alli, sorry - of the Navarro People's Union has again made reference to the question of the general elections and also to what the dynamics of post-election pacts in Navarre can be. You already know the feeling and position of the Socialist Party in Navarre and also of the federal leadership of the organization. In any case, in those matters where we can understand each other, you can count on the will to forge agreements. The Member of EH Bildu has referred to the public pension system and the need to put an end to some of the counter-reforms that have been raised by past administrations, but this is a debate that goes beyond the task of the Government that may eventually arise from this motion of censure. We must be very aware of what we can or cannot ask of the eventual Government and of the issues it has pointed out concerning the new status of work and repealing the counter-reforms of the public pension system, because we are not going to be able to do so. It is not our intention to do so in this context, with these characteristics of government, but, logically, we are not going to give up that in the future, if we have the majority of the votes of the Spaniards, we can launch a sustainable and dignified public pension system in terms of the amount of pensions. Mr Baldoví, we too are part of that Valencian path, of that government of progress that has been raised in the Valencian Community. I agree with you. I remember the media and conservative political parties when the Botanic Pact was being negotiated between Compromís, PSPV and Podemos. There was a lot of intoxication; it was said that Valencia was going to enter an unsustainable drift. The arguments were very similar to those that are currently being voiced by those who do not want this motion of censorship to prosper, but at the end of the day, as you have said in your first intervention, the business and economic confidence rates in Valencia are those that are, are positive, and it is shown that it can be ruled otherwise. As for autonomous financing, he knows the position of President Puig, the position of the Socialist Party and the initiatives we have brought here, and he even knows my pronouncements and the statements I have made to the current President of the Government on the need to renew the model of autonomous financing. I would also point out to you that, should this motion of censure succeed, it should be understandable that we are not going to be able to resolve everything, but we will try to lay the groundwork for such an update of the autonomous financing system to take place as soon as possible, inter alia, because we, like you, defend social cohesion. We talk a lot about territorial cohesion, but social cohesion is also fundamental and that a government is publicly reversing the health that was being sought to privatize by the administration of the People's Party in the Valencian Community, logically, is a subject that concerns us and affects us. In that sense, Mr Baldoví, at your request I tell you that I will try to live up to it. Mr Campuzano, I thank you for the vote of confidence, for the affirmative vote on this motion of censure, which allows us to go through the screen, to go through the page and open a new time of dialogue, consensus and pact between the different formations at national and Catalan level. You and I have spoken on many occasions, and also MP Xuclà and Senator Pascal, about the need to regenerate democratic life and generationally we also share a way of understanding the society that is important. I appreciate that constructive tone, that propository tone that I have because I lived here as a good Member of Parliament when I was ruling the Socialist Party, that constructive attitude that the party you represent has always had, and I want to thank you. As you have said, one of the main objectives we have in the very short term is to spread the political debate, to stop polarising politics around two poles which they are doing is to question social cohesion both in Catalonia and throughout the country and to seek political solutions to a political crisis. I insist that the Constitution gives us those tools and instruments, points out those paths. Let us explore them, also with the whole House. Of course, in my case you can count on that political will. Today is the word and intention. Let us hope that in the coming months not only the word but also the facts can certify the will it manifests towards its group. In any case, I thank you very much for giving us a chance from Catalonia to open up a new time in Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u108	Mr. candidate, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I saw the media cover, which they said: In the hands of the PNV. Really? In the hands of the PNV? Then go with the great Spanish nation! What an inability to reach an agreement! [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] We have no interest in causing the destabilization of the State, but neither do we have a vocation to govern Spain. We're a Basque party. To throw on our backs the responsibility of the situation, when the great Spanish parties have been causing continuous political tsunamis for months, one after the other, with irregular actions, judicial cases, political opportunism or no will to agree in other cases, to throw on our backs all this weight now, of course it does not make any sense. He was writing a columnist, to whom I respect, what he thought was going to happen in this session. He said, "Words filled with feces will fall upon one another." They'll leave a desolating panorama. I have to say it wasn't, fortunately. There's been something else, but it hasn't been like that. I, of course, will try to ensure that my words do not contribute at all to the laudable. Mr. candidate, you encouraged your socialist colleagues in Germany a few months ago, when you were there, to rebel against populist parties that promise simple solutions to complex problems, and you are right. So, faced with the urge to present the motion immediately and the decision made by others to speed up the debate on the motion as soon as possible, we have tried to do a deep reflection exercise, isolating ourselves from televisions, Twitter, Facebook and, to the extent possible, from the very short time that this motion has been encapsulated, because, candidate, neither the situation is simple nor the solutions and their consequences are simple. My party always tries to exercise responsibility and we did so in the 2018 budget debate in difficult and complicated circumstances. It was a thoughtful and costly decision, achieving - I think - important agreements; for example, the widespread improvement of pensions - something that nobody raised, that nobody thought could happen and that in the end it was achieved - improvements that will impact on the whole citizenry. Indeed, we did so also with Article 155 in force, but, as the Catalan parties here - my fellow Members of Parliament and Members here - are well aware, with permanent information among all, perfectly informed. As I already told you, and I announced it, the constitution of the Government was imminent, in six days; we knew it, we knew even the names, and we kept our word to the end. Having a budget now I would say that it is a good thing, whatever happens today, whether the motion succeeds or the motion fails; no matter how much it disgusts some people, however much they cannot agree, of course, in a situation of political uncertainty and economic uncertainty it is better to have a budget than not. I don't know if you're going to pass the Senate process or not, I don't know, but if you don't pass the Senate process in the circumstances you're experiencing, it's going to be an irresponsibility equal to the one you're accusing others of. [[Rumors]] Let's see what happens, but of course, as you will see, the decision that the Basque Nationalist Party has made does not go in those directions. [[Rumors]] What happened after the budget debate, exactly the next day? The next day we find a sentence that has an undoubted impact, no matter how much you want to deny, in social perception, in media perception. I could go into the details of the facts, but things are as they are and, besides, things are as they are believed to be. And the perception in Spanish society and the impact of the sentence on society in general was great; the public perception of the facts described and judged was and is terrible. On the other hand, the frameworks of instability that are announced are obvious: there are announcements of future motions of censure, in a sort of game of incessant Russian dolls that was going to have in vile to this Parliament, dynamizing - because certain situations have already been dynamized in the courts by getting out of politics and taking to court - some issues that are going to appear incessantly, because by deferring the taking of political responsibilities to the judicial system what happens is that at the time, at a delayed time, this may have a rebound, and the rebound goes to the party later, harming people who have nothing to do with it or others who do have to do with it, but in many cases also people who have nothing to do with the facts. But that deferring responsibility through the courts over time can have consequences and obviously rebound effect. Some want to pose in this session a kind of game of justice, as if what is to be clarified is who is most virtuous, as if there were no party interests or also personal passions and personal grievances, which have influenced the decisions of some parties, as if here they did not matter the consequences or what comes and, let's be realistic, what the situation is. I say - and I agree with that - that what is described, the judgment and the facts that motivate it, are a face of the current situation, but there is also another face of the currency. At the moment, the Spanish economic situation is being looked at with fear in Brussels, and we cannot hide that. The Italian earthquake and in part this motion have also raised the Spanish risk premium alarmingly. This is a reality that we also have to count on. Mr candidate, you come here and ask for our vote, that of the House in general, that of 350 Members, unconditionally, in principle. You sacrifice yourselves in your approaches; it comes to us to say: you put me in the Moncloa. And from the point of view of the political party, from the party's point of view, it is perfect; the play is good: if the motion goes wrong, of course they will have taken a step, they will have been there, they will have had a media impact; if the motion goes ahead and sits on the chair of the Moncloa, its figure acquires an evident protagonistism. In principle, you do not commit to anything, although it is true that you have said some things in your speech, and above all - this is important, Mr Sánchez - it is up to you to choose the time to press the dissolution button of the Chambers, and that is a power that is given to the President of the Government exclusively. I would like to think that you are prepared to have the legal changes that may occur in this House endorsed by a consensus and that we too can be in that consensus and that you are also willing to agree on the date of an electoral call. We cannot avoid the situation in Catalonia. Its position vis-à-vis the Basque and Catalan nations is important, because the way is not to change the type of rebellion in the Penal Code, the way is not to point to Catalan nationalism and, therefore, to the Basque as contrary to the European project. The way is to dialogue, the way is to try to find one another and the way is to try to recognize that there is a national problem in some places in this State. The situation, in case the motion in the House comes forward, the truth is that it would be complicated, I would not lease the profit. You will have the support of 85 Members, in principle; with a Podemos now stalled, with no possibility of influence so far, but which will make things very difficult for you; with a Citizens in tense electoral wait whose hostility against the PP did not begin on the day of the sentence, their hostility already began on the day the budgets were voted, from that very moment on, but who will also start hostilities against you from the first moment, and with a People's Party consequently angry. I am not surprised that among the ranks of your Members some may feel vertigo at the end of the motion, because the result of all this partisan interest - which I do not despise, I think it is also logical in the political debate and in the political game -, beyond the virtuous interests, which can also be in the decision-making process, and which must be in the decision-making process, will make your Government very complicated, if it proceeds with the motion of censure; a weak and difficult, complicated government. If I was already a real boiler this Chamber so far, it seems to me that this is going to become a continuous pimpampum. The Basque Nationalist Party is not a party with a government vocation in Spain, I said earlier. Our responsibility and our commitment are with Euskadi. The Spanish political parties can afford - they usually do, that's what they usually do - to play politics in short, and the truth is that between the four of them they have caused this situation and we have the responsibility to decide; we have that responsibility. We'll take it. Let's either make a decision or make a decision, we already know what the result will be. If we make a decision, we're going to be charged with cover-up corruption, falsely, but we're going to be charged. If we make another decision, we will be irresponsible and provocative of instability, falsely, but we will certainly receive that false accusation. It is not easy to decide, it is not easy to decide, but we have to do it and we have done it. We have done so in two ways, one in terms of political ethics and one in terms of responsibility at the moment. Last Thursday's sentence was one before and one after before society. The debate transcends the legal; for many explanations that are intended to be given, no one will understand the legal debate, it transcends the legal one. Those who do not understand this, do not understand the situation and do not know exactly what is happening in society. Would our negative vote on the motion, on the other hand, bring more stability to the government, more stability to the country, more stability in the House? Of course, Citizens will not facilitate a stability situation - they have already said -, the motions were going to be continuous and the leaking of the courts, probably as well. Therefore, our negative vote would not directly imply greater stability. We believe that we respond to what the majority of Basque citizens demand and to the best exercise of responsibility by voting yes. I trust that the dialogue promised by you in your speech is true and that it does not abuse the prerogative and privilege we are giving you. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u109	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government, Mr Sánchez. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Esteban, for supporting this motion of censure, which is not born in a hasty way, Mr Esteban, I can assure you that it is not. Over the past nine years, since the Gürtel plot was unveiled in public opinion as a result of investigations and complaints not only of members of the People's Party, but also of persons linked to the Socialist Party who were fighting and precisely denouncing these cases of corruption in different administrations, we in the Socialist Party demanded these political responsibilities; we demanded them even at times when there was no sentence, for example last year, when we saw that for the first time in the history of democracy in our country a President-in-Office had to appear as a witness, as I reminded the current President of the Government this morning. Mr Esteban, believe me if I tell the Basque Parliamentary Group that this was not the path we wanted, that this was not the road map we had designed for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for the leadership of our organisation. We, on Thursday, did not know when Gürtel's sentence was to be published. We were curious that the General Budgets of the State had been approved before the judgment was made public, perhaps in this case the coincidences in politics have been so. What I want to say to you is that on Thursday, when we heard the sentence of the Gürtel plot, we were the last to go out to the media, there was even a lot of pressure from the media to demand a clear, firm position of a party that, as I have told you before, has requested political responsibility from the People's Party in recent years. I will also give you a thought, Mr Esteban, which I would like to share with the House. That is why I would like to make it very clear that I do not consider the People's Party to be a corrupt party. [[Several Members: Now!-Rumors]] No, I do not, ladies and gentlemen; I do not. The Basque Nationalist Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party are centuries-old parties, we are parties with deep roots. If we claim to be the history of Spain, it is clear that the Basque Nationalist Party must legitimately claim itself as the history of the Basque Country. Corruption affecting the People's Party is weakening democracy and its political parties. It is weakening democracy and political parties that are seen by the citizenry as state parties, as parties of the system, and, of course, those that have not had managerial tasks and have therefore not proved the bitter drink of the disappointment of seeing that people that one could consider to be honest have been corrupted. This makes a lot of citizens today sick of cases of corruption, which are mainly affecting the People's Party, the party that governs us, and which can end up affecting the whole political system and, in particular, the historical parties, the parties that are seen by that same citizenship as state parties, the architectural parties of the Constitution. From the political point of view, for an organization like ours that has also suffered cases of corruption, because I insist that there is no corrupt party but neither is there any party immune to corruption, it was fundamental to draw a red line, a short fire, in the sense of saying: we are not this. As a result, democracy cannot tolerate the requirement of exemplaryness in the public exercise of political representatives reaching such low levels as those which have come as a result of a judgment which, I agree with you, has outraged and provoked more disbelief and, of course, much more disaffection in the whole of Spanish citizenship. Therefore, believe me, this is not a matter of political opportunism. I agree with you that, probably, if this motion of censure comes or comes forward, the days and months that I am going to have ahead are going to be complicated, difficult; in fact, I was also the victim of that parliamentary political fragmentation, and believe me that I have learned from it; I have had time to reflect and also to analyse what my mistakes were. I can assure you, Mr Esteban, that, as a centenary party, as a state party, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party will always try to put the general interests before the partisan interests. I assure you that, with regard to this motion of censure, if you took the example taken by other political parties - you have commented, for example, on the strategy of Citizens; we will already have an opportunity tomorrow to be able to debate both with Uniti-Posos and with Citizens - it is clear that the best thing would have been for the Socialist Parliamentary Group not to have assumed any responsibility, to cross its arms and to see how Spanish politics is chained to the leash of the countless cases of corruption that are to come. We would probably be designing our legitimate campaign strategies for municipal, autonomous and European elections. But what message would we be transferring to Spanish citizenship, Mr. Esteban? Does Spanish politics have to look elsewhere and assume that the President of the Government, who has been President of the People's Party in recent years, will continue as President of the Government? Mr Esteban, even when you were negotiating the general budgets with the Government of Spain, I suggested that if the President of the Government did not carry out his budgets, the only constitutional option that was being put forward was that the President of the Government himself should submit to a question of confidence. On many occasions we forget that we are in a parliamentary democracy and that the presidents of the government are elected thanks to the seats that are represented here, the 350 Members, and they are all worth the same, they have the same weight, they have the same legitimacy. What I want to say to you is that - believe me, I say it from my heart - this solution was not provided for by the Socialist Group or, of course, by me. This motion of censure had no choice but to stand as a result of the lack of political responsibility. I have offered something to the President of the Government: resignation; if he resigned, the motion of censure would be withdrawn, the debate would be over and we would therefore open another debate. The President of the Government has taken the liberty of ignoring me once again and putting the Spanish policy before this Parliament in a situation in which he obviously could not turn his back on the question he had to answer, which is the next one. If a person considers that he has no political responsibility whatsoever and that after, as you have rightly said, the sentence of the Gürtel plot can continue as President of the Government, what does this House do? Does he back you up, trust you? Look somewhere else? Or, in fact, are you trying to take responsibility? I know, Mr Esteban, that on the path you had designed looking at Basque society logically this did not fit in, this was not in your plans. At least I can assure you that it was not part of our political party's plans. In fact, you know well, and you know this House, which has not been one, but many times that different parliamentary groups, uniquely one, have required me to table a motion of censure, even on the same day as being elected Secretary General by the Socialist Party last year. And I rejected it, I refused to do so because I felt that it was first necessary to demand that political responsibility from Mr Rajoy and that, once the sentence was known, logically there was a moral force to be able to present this motion. As a centenary party that we are, as a state party that we are, as a party that has governed this democracy for more than twenty years, we are very aware of the complexity that we are going to handle, that we are going to manage, and that is why I ask this House, and specifically the Basque Nationalist Party, for its understanding, empathy and predisposition, which I thank. I also say to you, because you referred to this in your speech, which I will of course seek in the Basque Parliamentary Group the preferred partner for any legislative changes that may be made. I will also tell you that we have rejected these budgets, but they have been agreed by this House and, consequently, we are going to respect the commitments made by all the parliamentary groups that have signed budgets that we do not want, that we do not believe in, but that we obviously have no choice but to implement in the current circumstances. I believe that this is a good message that we are conveying to Brussels, to the Community institutions, the European commitment, to which I referred in my first speech this morning. Look, Mr Esteban, I think there are good things that matter to the Spanish policy of Basque policy. I have spoken a lot with politicians, logically more about the Basque Socialist Party than with colleagues and colleagues of the Basque Nationalist Party, but also with the lehendakari and other representatives of his party, and you have been able to work on diversity, work and consensus on fragmentation, and that has become a reality in this House, in Spanish politics. Consequently, with this parliamentary fragmentation, probably so complicated by the fact that it is precisely these hours in Spanish politics, it will be even more difficult. But if you look at what is happening outside of Spain, if you look at what is happening in other European countries, parliamentary fragmentation is the usual theme. There are governments with enormous parliamentary fragmentation; what is not in Europe, Mr Esteban, are governments that have been sentenced for such serious acts as those that have been sentenced as a result of the Gürtel plot. [[Applauds]] Therefore, as soon as that request for dialogue, I pick up the glove; it will have it. That look at the Basque Parliamentary Group when we have to make any legislative changes to find a preference in your group, can count on it, Mr Esteban, and of course also on the commitment of the Socialist Party, my person and the parliamentary group to be able to execute and meet the 2018 budgets. I hope we can lay the groundwork for approving the 2019 budgets. And I logically stress something that I said in my first speech during the morning, Mr Esteban, that this relationship, this dialogue, not only with the parliamentary forces but also with the various autonomous governments, we are going to have it, and of course also with the lehendakari Urkullu and with the Basque Government, of which the Socialist Party is a part. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban Bravo has the floor in turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u112	Yes, Madam President. Mr. candidate, I do not have much more to add, just to reiterate that I believe that we respond to what most Basque citizens demand and to the best exercise of the responsibility that we could do at this time, that we trust the word you have given regarding dialogue and that if the option that you have presented and becomes President of the Government comes out, you will have the best of luck.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Candidate.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. I pick up that glove, I wish all of us luck and we will open up a new political time among all of us that I think will be good for Spain and also for Euskadi. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the extent to which corruption is part of the DNA of the monarchy regime of 78 that in 1994, as a story of corruption, Mr Aznar said to Mr González: Go, Mr González. [[rumors]] In 1994 to the tale of corruption! Today, in 2018, Mr Rajoy has to go for corruption as well. It couldn't have been any other way! We are faced with a regime that has eaten because it was already born under the sign of impunity. If the crimes of Francoism, yes, yes, the most horrific, went unpunished, if the head of state himself, Juan Carlos I, never asked for forgiveness or gave any explanation of anything, or of his business, why did political parties have to be afraid that something would happen to them if they stole from institutions? Why was it not possible to organize plots to fraudulently achieve a political objective? [[rumors]] Moreover, this led to the creation of an oligarchy of corrupters and corrupters. By the way, as an oligarchy, with the instruments for perpetuating and reaching the present day and the normalization of fraudulent behaviour, it is true that for the first time only politicians are condemned, but a political organization is condemned. So if we don't react now, if we don't react now, and this motion of censure is a way of reacting, nothing will be credible to citizens anymore. And with the moral authority that gives us the fact of being a Republican political party with eighty-five years of history, having ruled in all administrations and having no case of corruption, we here judge and politically condemn the economic corruption of the People's Party of which only marginal matters have been judged - that is, the Gürtel, and not all - and we judge and politically condemn the corruption that will never be judged. Have you wondered how much corruption will never be judged, that is, corruption generated by the actions of entrepreneurs and corporations, which have accumulated benefits insofar as they have been able to intervene in political action by doping politicians economically in order to be able to alter the will of citizens and bring about desolation to millions of people? Regardless of the outcome of this motion, today there are some citizens who have to be the object of reflection and solidarity for us. I am referring to the thousands and thousands of honest responsible citizens who legitimately vote for the People's Party. They are the first victims of these people, just as we are all, the whole of the citizens, who apart from our ideology have to bury these behaviors. And what we have to ask ourselves is why society has not responded so far, why it has endured so much, why corruption is still being endured and why the causes and consequences of corruption are not being assumed. Then, our vote is not in support of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, it is a vote of rejection of the People's Party, the corruption of the People's Party. We will not vote yes to the motion because we share the program of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, not because we support its policies, our yes to Sanchez is a no to Rajoy. In short, our yes is a no. Although the PSOE has made a great effort to look like the People's Party, despite the fact that the PSOE has supported 155 and has legitimized today - and we will see what will happen next - the existence of political prisoners, in Catalonia we are clear that there are differences between a government of the Socialist Party supported by Podemos and a government of the People's Party supported by Citizens. I put three very easy examples. The People's and Citizens' Party are obsessed with destroying the Catalan school model and thereby breaking the social cohesion that has been built through linguistic immersion, and in this consensus it is true that the Socialist Party of Catalonia has always participated. It is clear that for an independentist or a Valencian republican it is not the same that rules Zaplana - in prison for corruption - that Ximo Puig, because who ordered the closure of the Valencian radio and television?, who but the People's Party has plundered the Valencian Country? And, of course, for a Republican Independenceist from the Balearic Islands, it's not the same thing that Matas rules over Francina Armengol. Having said that - I think we have spoken clearly -, I am going to make a story, so I hope that the candidate will be careful because he will have to discern politically and intellectually how much part of this story you have shared. Because some responsibilities will also have to be assumed - I suppose - in the construction of a future. And it is true that Mr Rajoy and the Popular Party, founded by Manuel Fraga, are the main responsible for the constitutional conflict between Catalonia and the Kingdom of Spain. They are because they lost the 2004 elections because of their inability to face with the truth the attacks of Atocha and to wear down the PSOE and regain power they found a line, the line of the Statut d'Autonomia de Catalunya; it was only necessary to pull from the atavistic anti-Catholic prejudices. Or do you believe that the 'A for them' that is now sung by hundreds of thousands of people spontaneously emerged? Does anyone believe that the rebirth of the Johannesburg ideas, proclaimed now by another Rivera, arose out of nowhere? [[Applauds]] Obviously not. In the referendum on the status of autonomy you legitimately defended no, just as we did, but for different reasons. What difference did it make between you and us? That we abide by the outcome of the referendum on the status of autonomy and you do not. And they started working in the offices and promoting publicity campaigns to recover what they lost in the polls, and for years Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Trillo and so many others launched protests, called for manoeuvres and refused to renew magistrates to kidnap the Constitutional Court. And in the end, they perpetrated a coup d'état against the 1978 Constitutional Pact, which resulted in the Constitutional Court itself violating the Constitution, in violation of article 152.2 of the Constitution, which you know it reads as follows: it is obliged to hold a new referendum in the event that the ratified statute has subsequently been amended by the Constitutional Court. And why do we say it here now? We say this here now to denounce the lies of the People's Party, to denounce its cynicism when talking about respect for the law, to denounce the shame of accusing us of breaking the law. It was the Constitutional Court that skipped the law, here lies the problem: to skip the law to deny Catalonia's recognition as a demo, a pre-Constitution reality. No more lies. The current statute is not the law we all gave ourselves, as Mrs. Arrimadas always repeats. It is not the law that we all gave ourselves, it is the statutory text that the Constitutional Court imposed in violation of article 152.2 of the Constitution. And then, when that happened, Mr. Pedro J. Ramírez, director of El Mundo, claimed that Catalonia was a paper tiger thinking that the Catalans would stay with their arms crossed, and after a month Cultural Ómnium summoned a million people - a million people!- in the streets of Barcelona, a demonstration presided over by the very honorable president of Catalonia José Montilla, who was the one who already told them that a great disaffection was coming in Catalonia. And after two years it wasn't a million, it was a million and a half people, and then citizenship was already calling for independence. And the Madrid press, as if it no longer served the paper tiger, invented the term "sufflé". And Juan Carlos I - Juan Carlos I, how will you be surprised now that Philip VI, having had Juan Carlos I as master, says what he says!-, you know what he said? - because on that date coincided the inauguration of the website of the Royal House -, do you know what he said about this million and a half Catalans who manifested themselves? He said, accusing them, "Encourage dissensions, pursue chimeras, deepen wounds and threaten the model of coexistence." The four ideas of Juan Carlos I. No European monarchy would ever have taken such a partisan position. And the 2012 elections came and all the parties that defended the referendum got a huge majority. The declaration of sovereignty was drafted and two thirds of the Parliament of Catalonia passed a bill for the Congress of Deputies to approve, allow, a referendum. And on April 8, 2014, Marta Rovira - who is in exile today because you intend to endorse her twenty years in prison - here, from this rostrum, she spoke; and Jordi Turull - who is in prison and intends to endorse her twenty years - came here to talk to you, and Joan Herrera, a Republican Catalan not independent but self-determinationist. [[applause]] They came here and defended a proposal for dialogue, and 300 deputies from 350 - PSOE too - said no, which cost a crisis in the PSC, the resignation of Pere Navarro and an almost massive flight of Catalanists from the PSC. The Kingdom of Spain had two options. One, choose the democratic path, the path of dialogue, a model that had already begun Norwegian and Swedish in 1905; a model that had enabled Quebec to accommodate Canada; a model that had allowed the referendum in Scotland to take place. This was a way. And then there was the authoritarian road, the road to Milosevic Serbia, the road to Erdogan Turkey with regard to Kurdistan. And unfortunately the demographic majority decided to abuse a dominant position. Why did they abuse a dominant position? I will tell you: because you have the State, with your army, with your courts, with your diplomacy, with your police, with your media. Then, why do we have to choose the path of dialogue, why do we have to choose the path of the pact? Why do we have all the cards in our hand? This is the reality: the abuse of the majority over the minority. The abuse of the majority over the minority always ends up being unpunished. Once again, the damn impunity comes out! And you know what we Catalans could do? I will tell you this: to use the last peaceful remedy of the democratic, civic and defenceless peoples, which is civil disobedience; by the way, a civil disobedience that others already used when their rights were violated, from Mahatma Gandhi to Nelson Mandela, through Martin Luther King; certainly very different forms, but what is the category? Civil and peaceful disobedience. And you didn't want to take a note. But why do we have to take note, why if we have the strength? And on November 9, 2014 there were 2 million Catalans - no longer 1.5, but 2 million - at the polls in a great exercise of polite, civic and peaceful civil disobedience. I'm talking about the referendum on 9 November. Any government of democratic tradition, what would it have done? I would have listened, dialogued, and negotiated. With whom? With the Parliament of Catalonia, with the Generalitat of Catalonia. But not you, you in the bunker, in the bunker of the prepotence, in the bunker of the abuse of the majority over the minority. And why don't you move a single millimeter of the Constitutional Court's ruling? Because they are convinced that they have the frying pan by the handle, because they trust that the paper tiger sufflé will come down, believing that the Catalans and the Republicans would get tired. And you in the bunker of the Spanish Constitution, version Fraga Iribarne, then forcing the Catalans to call new elections in 2015, elections that became plebiscite. We don't cheat; he may or may not agree with us, but we don't cheat, we speak clearly. The electoral program of those elections of 2015 said: constituent process by the republic. Seventy-seven per cent of the population voted and there were 48 per cent independence vote, with 12 per cent of the votes of non-independence political forces but in favour of the right to decide. Compare the Catalan case and the British case. What was the British response when the Scottish National Party reached 44%-44% versus 60%? Make a referendum. What was Madrid's answer? Well, look, the king of Spain didn't even have the education to receive the Speaker of Parliament, Carme Forcadell; by the way, today also imprisoned by you. [[Applauds]] What was your answer? Criminalizing the results, criminalizing the majority will of the people of Catalonia. Moreover, look at what you have done - attention, Mr Sánchez, because then you will have to tell us which side you are responsible for or, in any case, whether you legitimately assume part of this misery; you will have to say what part of this misery you assume - they have reformed the Constitutional Court Act to make the Constitutional Court an Inquisition that would prevent even a referendum law from being debated in the Parliament of Catalonia. And it coincided with the Venetian Parliament. A law was also enacted in the Venetian Parliament to hold a referendum. The Italian Constitutional Court said it was not constitutional, which is why the referendum was not held, but the law was debated. Instead, this has been the other way around. Here it was not only allowed that the Parliament of Catalonia could discuss the law. Then their political incapacity, their low democratic quality punishes citizens. Only Catalan citizenship? No; you are punishing the entire citizenship of the Spanish State. I remember that in 2016, in the investiture debate, I started my speech to Mr Rajoy, then candidate, telling him that we were not afraid of them - we do not have to - knowing that they would use the formula of violence, of repression, because it is very easy. Magic formula: I stick to Catalans, it won't be that one day they get away with it. This is the synthesis of everything. And I anticipated it. I said to him: if you continue along this path, possibly in the Spanish state there will again be political prisoners. And Mr. Rajoy, who has sorna, it's true, said I was afraid. For I would now tell you to ask the children of the people who are in detention. Go and ask the sons of the Democrats, elected officials, who are detained to whom they are afraid. [[Applauds]] We're not afraid. Moreover, know that also in the Plaza de Catalunya, in the middle of the silence after the bombings of the Rambla, it was shouted not for. The reaction of the people was extraordinary, as extraordinary was the reaction of the Madriders in the year 2004 after the attacks of Atocha. You know what was different? The reaction of the public authorities. The Generalitat de Catalunya put in the hands of professionals the armed and communicative response. Result: effectiveness and citizen gratitude to the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, symbolized in the greatest Trapero. And flowers, lots of flowers that covered the police cars of the Mossos d'Esquadra. What is not understood is that the attacks on the mossos began the day after the attacks. Why? Because they could not suffer the mismanagement of the year 2004 and still had it incorporated as trauma? It's possible. But there was probably another reason. As the attack on the mossos was long before the September 20 concentration before the Conselleria d'Hisenda, there is only one explanation. Do you know her? Do you want to hear it? Do you want to hear what the real reason is? In August, in the midst of Catalan mourning, they were already preparing the justification for the dispatch of 10,000 police and civilian guards. That's the reason. And they also turned the prosecutor's office into a new political-social brigade to pursue the October 1 preparation. And they had the shame - the shame - of even filing the complaints against the government under the title - listen, please, what was the title of the prosecution - the harder the fall will be. It is necessary to have shame for the headline The toughest will be the fall of the report of the complaints against the Government of Catalonia. And as much as they lie, the concentration before the Conselleria d'Hisenda was civic and peaceful. I say it because I was and I took the floor, just like Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart. You know for what? To say that nothing was worth it if everything was not civic, peaceful and democratic. [[Applauds]] And full respect for the operation that the Civil Guard had begun. And then it came on October 1st: referendum of self-determination, ballot boxes, pataletas, census and voters. You know why? Thanks to the mobilization of thousands of people who, despite their threats, had the dignity and courage to defend democracy by guarding the ballot boxes in their homes, guarding the polling stations throughout the day. And the police charges came, brutal, and the sinking of the democratic reputation of the Spanish regime. The Belgian Prime Minister described police charges as Francoist brutality and even Mr. Dastis made a mockery of the BBC when he denied the veracity of the images recorded by BBC journalists themselves. Then came October 3, general strike, mobilizing, civic and peaceful response and new message from the king, in this case Philip VI. Doing what? Giving legitimacy and free bar to the increase in repression. Never, ever, would the King of Belgium have addressed the Flemish people in those terms. Never would the Queen of England have addressed the Scottish people in this way. Mr. Candidate, take note in case you have to say anything. What's the formula? Violence, repression, authoritarianism, violation of civil rights and lies, because of course they know that the declaration of independence of 27 October was of great historical significance, but it was a strictly parliamentary act. Otherwise, why did they not apply article 116? Why didn't they apply the alarm status, exception and site article? Why do you now submit a bill to amend the Criminal Code so that it can be adapted to sedition and rebellion? In fact, you are implicitly recognizing that there was no rebellion. So much contradiction must have some solution, it must metabolize so many contradictions. It was already good for you that the European governments took up the argument that the Catalan question was a Spanish internal problem, but, in the face of the distortion of rights, the passive defences of the European democratic building have been activated; in this case, the truly independent judicial systems, not like Spanish. You know that as far as the Spanish judicial system - although you have not said anything about this today - it was not only the Council of Europe that classified the Spanish state in the twenty-first box in the non-compliance with the fight against the politicization of justice, but also the World Economic Forum places Spain at the level of Botswana in the fifty-eight box for which judicial independence is concerned, below Kenya, China, Egypt and even Saudi Arabia. In short, neither the German judges nor the British judges nor the Belgian judges nor the Swiss judges have given them the reason. What in Europe is ignominious in Spain rises to the category of justice. Do you have anything to say about this? There is no judicial independence in Spain. In Spain there is no judicial independence, because corruption is not only economic; corruption is also incardinated in the system. In Spain, there are political prisoners and exiles. By the way, you know that out of our pride the names of all the prisoners and of all the exiles are already part of the history of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, after 1 October nothing will be the same, but you still have no plans for Catalonia. You are convinced that Catalans who are not independenceists - 50, 55 or 60%, no matter what - have signed a policy with you that they will never be. In fact, this is his performance: if they're never going to be independenceists, why do we have to think about anything? That is why you believed that on 21 December you would end the independence majority and activate all the factual, economic and media powers and even went through the shame of seeing something that had never happened in Europe happen in the Spanish state: that some candidates were in jail. As they failed, what they did was question, not recognize the election results, prevent the investiture of the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont, prevent the investiture of Jordi Sánchez, prevent the investiture of Jordi Turull, prevent the presence of deputies who are in prison in the Catalan Chamber, etc. We know what you're trying to do. It is intended to scare, frighten and root in the imagination of Catalan citizenship that it should not be tried again until twenty years from now. I will tell you what - this is part of the questions we ask you today - the seven immediate threats: first, to load the Catalan educational model; second, to win the ideological battle against the Spanish citizenship because the Catalans have carried out a coup d'état -For what? To make Catalanophobia grow -; third, to incite, to encourage violence within Catalonia on the way towards a certain ulceration in order and effect that independence cannot accumulate forces; fourth, to kidnap the institutions of self-government as many times as it takes; fifth, to denigrate the body of the Mossos d'Esquadra; sixth, to dynamize Catalan public radio and television; and, seventh, to drown, to drown the finances of the Generalitat. Well, before these seven diabolical objectives, we affirmed seven ideas: first, never Catalan republicanism had come so far - put it down -; second, never Catalan republicanism had had so much popular support - put it down -; third, we will always feel concerned, solidarity and twinned with the peoples of the current Spanish state - put it down -; fourth, we will never derail our civic, peaceful and democratic principles and actions - we do not need to point it out because we know it -; fifth, we will always bear the flag of dialogue; sixth, we will govern for the benefit of all Catalans, whether or not we are independent, because, apart from being independent or not, the vast majority of Catalans share basic ideas, basic values, such as freedom, equality or fraternity, and we all want to build worthy lives for all - in short, the idea of republicanism, because it will be between a criminal solo poble and destitution, Catalonia, and I hope that it will never be possible. [[Applauds]] We're not fooled either. We know that we are now in a situation of confrontation, of pain, at the door of a macro-cause that will surely end up in the European Court of Human Rights because there is a desire for revenge and scarment, but - this issue I am going to develop later - we are in the phase of confrontation - it is true - and in the phase of confrontation there is pain, feelings, even insult, screaming and not listening; okay. In all conflict resolution processes always, if one works - dialogue - one moves to a second phase, which is that of dialogue in the context of confrontation, but at least the parties are heard. This phase is essential to reach the third stage. What's the third one? The stage of public dialogue, negotiation and, when negotiations are under way, intermediation. We have a long look, we don't have a short look, we don't go to the regatta; we're doing something very important: building the republic, and we know that, finally, within the framework of an advanced society of the twenty-first century, all conflicts must be resolved through dialogue. Now, as I will put it later, I think you have to decide whether you want to be the Tony Blair who made the 1998 agreements possible or whether you want to be - not Margaret Thatcher - John Major. [[as Miquel Roca i Junyent, father of the Spanish Constitution, recalled at a conference in the Economic Circle, in which he referred to the Irish conflict as an example to follow - I did not say so, but Roca i Junyent-]] Here you have to prove your size, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, here you have to prove, little short watering and long look if you really want to be a statesman, if you don't want to be a passerby. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u117	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the presidential candidate, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Tardà, for your intervention and, above all, for supporting this motion of censure. After listening to him and getting to know his account in more detail about what happened in the crisis in Catalonia, I have to admit that we start from very distant positions, we start from very distant positions. I agree with you that part of what has happened in Catalonia has much to do with the crisis unleashed by the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, by the resource, all that you already know and have claimed and about what we have also talked about. I think it is important to stress that it has overlooked an economic crisis which has not only joined this appeal before the Constitutional Court, and consequently that Catalonia today has a statute which did not vote, but which then caused social unrest. It is clear, Mr Tardà, from the events that took place in the Catalan Parliament on 6 and 7 September, that not only did they involve a fracture of the constitutional order, of the Statute of Autonomy, a dislocation in my opinion of Catalan politics, because it places Catalonia out of the law, but, in my opinion, because it was seen in the Catalan Parliament, with many Members of the Catalan Parliament who were absent, it generated the rejection of legislation that you called transitory and which not only counted on the rejection and opposition of the various parliamentary forces that we defend the constitutional order, because it was even warned of the illegality in which this unilateral drift occurred not only by the Constitutional Court, but also by the lawyers of the Catalan Parliament and of course by the Council of State Guarantees, which was created in the heat of its independenceist purpose. I therefore believe that this is also an important element to be incorporated in the analysis and in the account of what has happened in Catalonia. Before the elections on 21 December, I recall that you made various statements. One of them came to say something that seemed quite symptomatic to me and that is quite illustrative of what is happening in Catalonia. Maybe I read it wrong and you correct me in the reply or maybe you think I made a proper and accurate reading of your words. You came to say in that statement that Catalan independence does not have 51% of the votes and that, therefore, it does not have enough political and social strength to impose its narrative, its vision, its strategy and articulate a unilateral path. It is true that you say that we will already see what happens in the future with the other more than 40%, or equal in that 48% that can now represent support for pro-independence forces. I am convinced, because I have also spoken to people who have voted for the Republican Left or the PDECAT, who are not independenceists, who are simply defending a different position of Catalonia in a shared project that is Spain. Therefore, I do not believe that one block is homogeneous or that the other block is homogeneous. I will even tell you that, if we had to talk about blocs, I would share as a reflection with you that after many electoral processes that have been lived over the last few years, the photograph of Catalan politics is quite obvious, it is quite clear. There are two blocks that have little less the same social support and therefore we have a Catalan society divided into two, divided into two, and the flows of votes can be produced between different parties that defend one or another position, that is, within the pro-independence bloc, between the Republican Left, the PDeCAT, Junts per Catalunya, the CUP, and in the bloc that we defend another kind of position or solution to the Catalan crisis logically the same. I have intuited from his words, from those words to which I am referring, that the key to resolving the Catalan crisis has much to do with overcoming the dynamics of blocs and, therefore, trying to open spaces for dialogue, to find spaces for consensus. And the spaces of dialogue and consensus, Mr Tardà, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, are the status of autonomy that the Catalans voted for and it is also, of course, the Spanish Constitution that the majority of the Catalans voted for. And within this constitutional and statutory framework logically find the points that allow us to lay the foundations for a dialogue and to live together in a common project that is Spain. I cannot share with you, Mr Tardà, that the judiciary in our country is not independent; I believe it is and I want it to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. I cannot share with you that there are political prisoners in a consolidated democracy like ours; I am sorry, but I am not saying it, Amnesty International says it. [[Several Members: Nooo.- Rumors and protests]] Well, I give you my opinion and echo the statement made by Amnesty International. What I and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are offering is that within the Parliament of Catalonia and in the Congress of Deputies we begin to talk about how we can resolve a crisis between all of us, the Catalan crisis, which of course affects the whole of our country. That is the commitment, Mr Tardà, that is the spirit, the will of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of me. It is clear that we are in very different positions right now. I am very aware that your affirmative vote on this motion of censure has nothing to do with the support of my person as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government; I know that it has much to do with the support for a necessary censure, forced by the current President of the Government - I know - and I believe that, in addition, the rest of the parliamentary formations in this House should take note, above all, of the fact that in these days that we have had from the presentation of the motion of censure to the materialization of the motion of censure there has been the formal, logical discussions between different parliamentary groups in order to try to carry out this motion of censure. In any case, Mr Tardà, I think this is not the first time that the Republican Left and the Socialist Party at state level have been understood in so many policies, so many policies that have to do with social rights, environmental policies, issues that unite us as left-wing parties, and I think we can also find points of union there. In the end, in the seventh point you were talking about dialogue, the necessary normalisation, politics in order to try to find a solution to the crisis in Catalonia. I am left with that seventh point, Mr Tardà, and I pledge to explore, on behalf of the Socialist Group and with the consensus of the House, that dialogue to find a political solution to a crisis that is political. I hope we find the solution sooner than later. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u119	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor in turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u120	Thank you, Madam President. See if we are far away that you still here today deny that there are political prisoners. Look, I'm asking you to lock yourself up and start looking for a way to name these democratically elected democrats who are incarcerated and who, in addition, want to - I repeat, want to - endorse twenty years in prison. Go find some formula. Even so, even if you said here that you want it to be thirty years, we would continue to call for dialogue. If this motion had not come out, we would have called for dialogue from the People's Party. Do you know why Mr. Nelson Mandela learned the Afrikaner language from his jailers? Because I wanted to have a better dialogue with them. [[Applauds]] That is to say, although you would have said here today that you are happy to have Oriol Junqueras incarcerated - I am convinced that you are not happy with it, which does not mean that you did not oppose it -, even if you were to get them incarcerated, we would continue to call for dialogue. We've come a long way. There are many generations of Catalans who have gone through prisons and exile. This struggle of ours is very old, it comes from afar; the amazing thing is that we are still here and, most importantly, that we make a flag of civicism, pacifism and democracy. I remind you that in 1918 a draft statute of autonomy was presented here and all forces said no, that sovereignty never. It was the answer. All the Catalan Members left the Chamber and, as he left, the last one went up to this stage and said: There is nothing to do, you will not recognise Catalonia until the regime falls. - Cambo said he wasn't a Republican. And, indeed, until the monarchy fell, the Second Spanish Republic did not recognize Catalonia -. We are in the 21st century, we are in Europe, where everything begins and everything ends with democracy. Are you telling us that you are going to endorse the arguments of the 20th and 19th centuries? But how do you understand this? We have to go out and say: we have to move forward; dialogue and negotiation. When will we implement the Republic Catalans? Whenever the Catalans want, that is, we may not implement it. It's up to you, too. If I were a nationalist, I would prefer you to hit us even more sticks, because the growth of independence is proportional to your indolence, to the indolence of the constitutionalist parties. Look at Quebec. The Quebec Independenceists have not raised a new referendum. Why? Apparently, they're already comfortable in Canada, because Canada put on the batteries. Instead, you are not, you are not yet able to go out here and raise a yes or a no to those questions that I have put on the board. I've set you seven points. Don't you have a position? Is it not clear what should be done now, in the twenty-first century? Or does anyone believe that democracy exists in the 21st century without the consent of the citizens? Is it possible that the independenceists will be 25% in a few years? It's possible, but we're still 65. We - I assure you - will try to build a very wide, very wide path, so that the greatest number of Catalans and visions different from what the republic has to be. It's our project, because we're not nationalists. Why do we want the Catalan Republic? Because we are convinced that it is the most effective instrument for building a freer and much more just society socially. It is a political project that can also interest many Catalans who today may resist believing - they have all the legitimacy and our respect - that the Catalan Republic needs to be assumed, and they are hopeful with you or with the People's Party. Well, we've got what they're gonna do. We're going to build the republic. But building the republic means accumulating forces, being more; indeed, I give you all the reason, of course, we have to be more and we walk in it. Now, you should ask yourself what you have to do so that Republicans are no longer. I must tell you that I, who am a friend and even a family member of non-independenceists who still believe that the Kingdom of Spain can give them shelter from equality, sincerely believe that if you do not put a little more enthusiasm, a little more will, a little more daring and do not get rid of these fears will come the day we think: Pedro Sánchez is a mini Zapatero, Pedro Sánchez is a mini Zapatero. Why? Because the Federal Spain that had promised us Zapatero did not come out, it did not come out because of a lack of political will; perhaps because it did not have too much support in its party and because, moreover, it is evident that the right is ultramontane. Now, what we will not do - take this as a willingness to cooperate - is make you believe that the thing is serious if you do not dare to pose already, from the beginning, a scenario of dialogue. For negotiations to exist, there must be dialogue. We are in no hurry, we are not going to the short boat; we are going to build the republic and it is clear that in the end what we are going to ask you is the following: We must resolve this conflict democratically through a relationship, of entry, bilateral - you will know how you metabolize this - a relationship of a bilateral nature in order and effect that all this can be resolved - I do not know when - by following the canons of international law, of course. And that which is now the product of mockery surely - they were also mocked when we told him that there were going to be political prisoners; they can already mock -, in the end it will have to be negotiated, and you know it. Are we far from this negotiation? Yes, it is true, there is a lot of work to be done, and for this reason I may already understand the value of using the word dialogue, but it is not just dialogue; this dialogue must be given substance because it is not done in four days, of course. But if we want to move forward in a negotiating scenario one day, you will already know what is right for you to put on the table; we know what we will put on the table. Dialogue? Yeah. Moreover, flag of dialogue. Now, let's just ask one thing: don't fool us, please. Don't fool us. [[Applauds]] We have too much pain to bear to be caught in our hairs, and it is told by someone who hurts a lot when he hears that other Catalans insult, for example, Joan Manuel Serrat; it deeply hurts me. It hurts me that some Catalans have insulted Rosa María Sardá; it hurts me deeply, but I also ask you to have the will to come out here and say that it hurts in the soul according to what comments and according to what statements, some known, because they have not been advertised by legitimate people, said with all respect, anonymous, who deserve the same respect as others, but by people of great importance within their political party. I ask for forgiveness on behalf of anonymous Catalan citizens I do not know, but as Catalan I know very badly that they have insulted Serrat, for example. You do the same. Go up and do it. Let's start, let's start with this. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u121	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Tardà, for your words. Diálogo, yes. Let's start that way. Dialogue also between Catalans, Mr Tardà. I think it is important for the new Government of Catalonia to establish that dialogue with the rest of the parliamentary forces in the Parliament of Catalonia because, in my opinion, there is that social gap between Catalans. Of course, if this motion of censure comes forward, that will be the will of dialogue. I'd tell you something too, Mr. Tardà. I believe that it is very unfair with the Constitution itself of 1978 and with the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia because, if one compares with what has happened outside Spain in other European countries to which you have referred, for example the United Kingdom, I imagine from Scotland, and examines exactly what degrees of self-government have different autonomy, whether in the United Kingdom, in Belgium, in federal countries, to which you have not referred, but you have referred to the concept of federal, as can be, for example, Germany, Mr Tardà, it is clear that the competences and development of self-government which Catalonia has right now in the field of education, culture and economic development, I say to you, Mr Tardà, that, from the historical point of view, for Catalonia, there has been no comparison in these forty years with the development of the Spanish Constitution and the development of the State of Autonomy. You know, moreover, that in Spain the term autonomy was used not so much that of federalism as a consequence of our own history, of the Second Republic, and of course federalism was at least conceived as a disintegrative and not precisely inclusive force, which is what it represents in many of these federal countries. That is why, in my opinion, the term "autonomic state" was used. But, as one constitutional father, Jordi Solé Tura, Catalan pro, rightly said, no matter what it is called, the important thing is that it works. And I believe that in terms of the vocation of self-government, if one compares oneself as Catalan, even as a Catalan nationalist or Catalan republican, with what has happened in other parts of Europe, or even on the other side of the Atlantic, in Canada, Mr Tardà, it would also be fair to recognize that the levels of self-government that are now in Catalonia are far superior to what any Länder in Germany can be or, for example, Scotland in what they represent the United Kingdom. It is true - and you know it - that Scotland is linked to the United Kingdom by an international treaty and here we have a Spanish Constitution voted in a majority by Catalan society, I think I remember that for 80% - I hope the memory does not make me wrong - Mr Tardà, and that Constitution is very clear, does not recognize the right to self-determination, but that Constitution does recognize the vocation of self-government of a society such as Catalan, very attached to institutions such as the Catalan institutions. Therefore, Mr Tardà, that is a good starting point because it is a point of consensus that the Catalans and the Spanish society as a whole found. That's where we're going to move. Are these 20th or 19th century responses to 21st century problems? I do not think, Mr Tardà, that the most important political fact for an organisation like ours or for the Socialist Parliamentary Group is to recognise that there is a political problem and that political solutions must be given. Over the past decade, as a result of the absolute majority of the People's Parliamentary Group, there has been no recognition of the political fact that there is a crisis to be resolved from the political rather than the judicial point of view. Unfortunately, we did not have parliamentary strength in the first parliamentary term of Mr Rajoy's term in order to persuade the People's Parliamentary Group that we had to review and update our constitutional framework. Because there are elements of Catalonia but there are also other elements that affect our autonomous state and other autonomous communities. A government party like ours, which is present in ten autonomous executives, also suffers from these shortcomings and deficits. I therefore believe that it is important not only to have that bilateral relationship - which is already recognized in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia - but that what should be claimed is that this logical relationship between the two governments, as is the case with other autonomous communities, should take place. One of the great lessons we have to learn from this crisis is that we have to strengthen the federal cooperation mechanisms and the ties of institutional loyalty that, unfortunately, have been broken in recent years. That is my purpose, Mr Tardà, and that is the will of the Socialist Group. We do not deceive anyone, look, even write: the Granada Declaration and the Barcelona Declaration, because when we talk about territorial coexistence we are talking about bringing together conflicting interests. Does that mean we only have one country project? Of course, we have a country project, and since that country is plural and diverse, it is clear that citizens living in one region or another can feel different as a result of their realities. In this case, the Socialist Party's responsibility in the Granada Declaration and the Barcelona Declaration was to lay down, at least, a road map with different milestones to spread the political crisis precisely and begin to find points of dialogue and consensus. Mr Tardà, you know that we are a formation of the left, a progressive formation, a formation that defends our Constitution, that we recognize ourselves in it, but we are a formation that with you, in different municipalities in Catalonia, also in the past in the Autonomous Government of Catalonia or in that of Spain, we have agreed to draw laws that have worked for the benefit of the whole of Spanish citizenship and, in particular, of Catalan citizenship. There we have a territory to pay that is probably also necessary to spread the political situation that is going on in Catalonia. That is the commitment we have, Mr Tardà, and I hope that we will make our way on the way. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u123	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u124	Thank you, President. Today we are, without a doubt, at a moment of significance in the history of Spain, before a motion of censure that can change future alliances and above all who rules in this country; and I am not referring to the candidate in this case, but to the one who accompanies him, his governing partners. But we also play to overcome an unprecedented institutional crisis. We agree with the parliamentary majority in this House that this legislature is liquidated. Corruption has liquidated the legislature; corruption and the condemnation of the government party in the Gürtel ruling have liquidated the confidence of this House in the Government of Spain. Therefore, the debate today is not whether the legislature is over or not, the debate is who takes over the country once the legislature is over. That is why we are facing a triple crisis. An institutional crisis; the CIS continues to place corruption, despite everything, as Spain's second problem, and this ruling condemning the government party is not going to help, quite the contrary. We have a constitutional crisis, a crisis of democratic values, a blow to democracy that some parties in this House have tried to make in Catalonia, which are certainly Mr Sánchez's partners in this motion. Therefore, union, rights, freedom, equality between Spaniards are also at stake. We are making decisions knowing that on the one hand we have to regenerate public life and re-believe in politics, institutions and democracy, but, on the other hand, we are also facing a crisis where we must guarantee the equality of the Spaniards, the union of the Spaniards and that rights and freedoms are respected also in Catalonia, in my land, where those who have tried to strike democracy rule. And finally, we have an economic crisis that we have not yet completely overcome. Despite the government's triumphalism, the reality is that there are still many families overcoming this crisis, there are still many people with precarious salaries, there are still people who do not arrive at the end of the month with their pensions and therefore we must continue to work to give economic stability, financial stability, at a difficult time for Europe. In the face of three crises of this nature - a crisis of confidence, a constitutional crisis and a crisis of union and an economic crisis - everything we do in this House from now on, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must always make the right decision so that these three crises can be resolved in the future. That is why we agree that the legislature is over and we agree that corruption has liquidated it. I am not going to paraphrase or read sentences of the judgment that have already been read by the proposer himself, Mr Ábalos, this morning and some other speakers. There are genuine pearls in that Gürtel ruling that accuse of a parallel plot of corruption to take on structural bites, a kind of structure parallel to the state to finance the party that is in the government; that, together with the question that affects the credibility of the president of the government, all this makes it impossible to continue with this legislature and with this government. With all this, by the way, at this point, a few hours away from the motion, being partners of the investiture, having voted the budgets of 2017 and 2018, having supported the application of the Constitution together with the Socialist Party and the People's Party, at this time Citizens have no news of Mr Rajoy, not a single call, not a single proposal. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] I know it sounds amazing to you; so do I. But the reality is that Mr Rajoy, who is also not in the Chamber accompanying us in a motion of censure to his own person and to the president himself, and I believe that at such a delicate moment one must have a sense of state and one must look high and not think about your party... They have not shouted when speaking Republican Left, only when speaking Citizens, those of the People's Party. [[Strong Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Rajoy had to have taken over at the time of that court ruling. I should have led an answer. The sensible thing was to bring the parliamentary groups together and tell them that the legislature has run out, that it has no majority, and that an orderly and democratic way out of the legislature must be given. I had to lead, even for the first time, the way out of this institutional crisis. But he hasn't. Mr. Rajoy has not made a decision. Moreover, at this time he is neither in the House nor has taken it and, therefore, as partner of the investiture, as partner of the budgets, as partner of the implementation of the Constitution, precisely because we have been the only ones who supported him in the investiture, precisely because we are the only ones who have been there, with the Constitution, with Spain, with the budgets of 2017 and 2018, I must tell him that they were wrong of opponent. When Mr Rajoy told me a few days ago, you should, Mr Rivera, learn from Mr Sánchez and from Mr Sánchez's loyalty. Well, look at the loyalty: a motion of censure tabled a few hours later, without even consulting not only its bases, but I know that even some Members did not know that presentation. [[applause]] Mr. Rajoy also told us: Learn from the Basque Nationalist Party; a loyal party, a serious party, with words. That is where you have the floor: I am voting in favour of the motion of censure against the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The President of the Government should be here, should make decisions, should speak to those who have been absolutely loyal to this country, to the Constitution... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u125	One second, Mr. Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. There is still a very important part of the plenary and I would ask you to remain silent. Go on, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u126	Thank you very much, President. As I was telling you, loyalty to the Constitution, loyalty to an investiture and a pact that we have been implementing so far, until corruption in this case has liquidated the legislature. Therefore, Mr Rajoy is not here, but I must say that he was right that there was 'exploitateguis', but he was not Citizens, they were those who today are disloyal with that agreement. [[Applauds]] But before this thesis there is still one last option, there is still one last cartridge, there is still one way that the candidate himself has put on the table, and I think he has been very honored on his part to say it openly. Mr Sánchez has said - correct me if I am wrong, Mr Sánchez - that if the President of the Government resigns, the motion of censure will fall. [[Rumors]] That's what he said, and that's what the Rules and the Constitution say. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, who is not here, Mr Rajoy, who has not spoken to us, Mr Rajoy has a last chance to stop the motion of censure that he should have stopped calling for elections, which is to present his resignation and allow an orderly exit from the legislature. [[Applauds]] If Mr Rajoy exercises that responsibility, even if it is late and bad, we are willing to talk about how to get out of this hole in which we are caught because of corruption. We must ensure the implementation of the Constitution in Catalonia, we must ensure the implementation of the General Budgets of the State, we must give the country minimum stability in order to put an electoral horizon in the medium term that can guarantee, in short, that the Spaniards, and not Mr Sánchez, with twenty-two parties, including Bildu and Esquerra Republicana, decide in an office. We will agree that, in the face of a crisis of confidence, what must be regained first is trust, and trust cannot be given by twenty-two separatist, populist political parties, together with the Socialist Party, but trust must be given by the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] Therefore, even if you have not spoken to us, I say this to you here in the rostrum because I have not had the opportunity to speak to the President of the Government, I propose to you an agreed way out at this time: that Mr Rajoy resign, that he remain in office, that we agree to call for a medium-term election, that we ensure... [[Protests and rumors.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: Make numbers!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u127	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u128	You don't want to assume reality. [[Rumors]] I'm gonna try to keep going. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u129	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u130	It is curious that the government party interrupts more the only partner that has had in the legislature than all the others, who support the motion of censure. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I propose this exit, because I am convinced that if Mr Rajoy takes the lead, even if it is late, we can prevent Bildu, that Mr Tardà, that Mr Rufián, that Mr Torra, that Mr Puigdemont take the lead and the decisions for us. Let's return the voice to the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] It's late but we're on time, and I think it's better to think about Spain right now than anyone else's political career. No political career... [[Protests and rumors]] President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u131	One second, Mr. Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u132	It's better to think about Spain right now than anyone else's political career. No political race today is more important than Spain, none, and of course to return the voice to the Spanish people the majority of these groups will be able to count on us, so that the Spanish vote, decide, choose. [[applause]] Are you afraid that the Spaniards will really choose? Are you afraid that the Spaniards will take note of what happened here today? Are you afraid that the Spaniards will see this morning's show and be able to choose an alternative? Are you afraid of that? Some say: No, let's not call elections to see if we don't win. Well, that's democracy. Democracy is not about calling for elections to always win your party. [[Applauds]] That would be something else, wouldn't it? So don't be afraid of the Spanish people; be afraid of the corrupt, the unemployment, the problems of Spain. Be afraid of all that. Neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party should fear, as is being seen in this debate, the Spanish people. Article 113 deals with the motion of censure and the motion of censure in Spain has two parts. One, censorship of the government, which is just what I was talking about. This government must be censored. If a new Government were to be censored separately, we would have to vote in favour of this motion of censure. So, yes. If this were an impeachment, a mechanism simply to change government or to call elections, we would vote yes because that is precisely what we are asking, an election to end this legislature. What's the problem with our model? That is why a government, a government objective and a pact between parliamentary groups must be sidelined. That is the problem, Mr Sánchez, that you can agree with me, with my group and with others, that we must blame the President of the Government and your group at this time, but we do not agree that the solution, as I have said before, to the constitutional problem that this country is experiencing is that Bildu, the former friends of Batasuna, that the gentlemen of the Republican Left, that Mr Puigdemont, that Mr Torra, that you call racist and that I, too, because he is, take the reins of our country. Mr Sánchez, I was watching you as you listened to these groups speak and I am convinced that not only you, but also many socialists see with baffle that your party, which is a constitutional party, with progressive tradition, which defends the values of equality and freedom, like us and other groups, is in the hands of Mr Torra. Mr Torra, the one you said was Le Pen - it is true, I agree -, the one you said was racist - it is true, I agree -, the one who said that all Members of this House who are not Catalans are beasts with genetic taras. What Mr Torra said is racism, nationalism, and I cannot understand, Mr Sánchez, that you, and above all your party - no longer just you, but the Socialist Party, with which we also have agreements in many parts of Spain, with which we have applied the Constitution together with the conservative party - are allying themselves with parties of this nature. I believe that Spain deserves much more because of that, Mr Sánchez, not because it does not censor the government, that it must be censored, but because it does not support a Frankenstein government; what Mr Rubalcaba said, what Felipe González said, that, in the end, I think so too. I too think, like Mr González, that this government is impossible, that with eighty-five Members it does not come out. I also think, like Mr Guerra, that the union of the Spaniards, in short, is to defend equality and that we must not go with those who want to break our country. I also think, like Mr Lambán, Mr Page, Mr Bono or Mrs Susana Díaz, that it is not worth ruling at any price. You, Mr Sánchez, legitimately returned to be secretary general of your party and, paradoxically, consulted the bases of your party, which we do some and practice - it is healthy to consult and do primary - but to the bases of Spain, the Spaniards do not want to consult them. [[Applauds]] He doesn't want to consult the Spanish people. The question to be asked is: In addition to censoring the Government, is there a government alternative? Can it be ruled by eighty-four seats? Can it be governed by twenty-two political parties? Can Spain be ruled with those who want to liquidate it? The answer is clear: No. And you know what's gonna happen? You're going to see him. You're going to see him, Mr. Rajoy was saying it, and he was right. If with 137 deputies and making pacts with different parties it has been very difficult to take measures from the investment pact, how will they be able to govern Spain with eighty-four seats and twenty-two parties and the gentlemen who want to liquidate Spain by putting mortgages on the Spanish every day? Is that what you're gonna try? Or do you want to be president for a few months? Because I think there's something else here. Here there is not only the will to form a Frankenstein government with twenty-two parties; here there is the will to become president of your country at any cost. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Sanchez. It is legitimate to want to be president of a country, which we share and I am sure that I also share it with Mr Rajoy. Mr Rajoy, who is president, and you, who has been a candidate, and I too surely know that the best thing that can happen to someone is to be able to participate in the public life of your country. It is legitimate that you want to be President of the Government of Spain. What is not legitimate is that you want to do it with those who want to liquidate Spain. That's the difference between you, Mr. Sanchez, and me. We share the censorship and we share the Constitution, but I will never be president with the support of those who want to liquidate my country. [[Applauds]] There are grounds for censure for the Gürtel case, for the judgment and for which perhaps they will come - we shall see - but, Mr Sánchez, that the ERE party wants to agree with the three percent party to remove the Gürtel party does not seem a great idea either. [[Applauds]] If we want to regenerate public life, let's give the Spaniards the opportunity to erase and new count. Let us give them the vote and, ultimately, the confidence that they will choose. You may like more or less what the Spanish vote, you may or may not agree, you may feel like you've voted more or less, but you can't turn your back on the Spanish people. Mr Sánchez, if you are a Democrat, if you believe in democracy, if you are not afraid of the Spanish people, if you want to be president of Spain legitimately, I simply propose that we reach an agreement: that we withdraw this motion, that we make an election - with the People's Party, with Podemos or anyone else - and that we put a voice to the Spanish people so that they do not send Mr de Bildu or Mr Rufián or Mr Tardà; that they send the Spaniards, that they pay us the salary and it is to whom we serve, to all the Spaniards. He is therefore in time, too, and I propose that he rectify and not be afraid of the ballot box. Let's set a date, find a way out, settle it between the groups. To the show this morning of the championship of corruption between Mr Ábalos and Mr Rajoy - to see who gets more cases of corruption, to see who criticizes more what the other party has done - to the show of bipartisanism we must put an end to it by giving the voice to the Spanish people and that they choose. If this morning's show is legitimized in the polls, there's nothing to say. If the Spaniards want more Gürtel, more ERE, more three percent and more corruption, they will vote for it. But you've been wondering one thing? What if the Spaniards are sick of it? What if the Spaniards can't take it anymore? What if the Spaniards want to finish this stage and open a new not of bipartisanism or of reds against blues, but of Spanish citizens who shake hands in the important, in what unites us, which is much more than what separates us? Therefore, I propose that, instead of throwing plates at our heads, instead of seeing who has the most cases of corruption between you, we give a democratic way out of all this. I tell you one thing, and I am now addressing the group that preceded me in the intervention, the Republican Left. Take advantage of these months to violate rights and freedoms. [[Rumors and Protests]] Take advantage of these months so that the Constitution does not apply in Catalonia. Take advantage of these Frankenstein months of government so that freedom and union cannot be defended. They're harassing people these months. They signal people these months, because they know what's going on? [[rumors and protests]] That in a very short time the Spaniards are going to say enough and they are going to say that the Constitution is also being complied with in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Because I am convinced that the Spanish people are taking note. I am convinced that the Spanish people are seeing, on the one hand, the spectacle of bipartisanship and, on the other, those who want to cut off the institutional weakness of our country, and we are not going to allow that. We want a democratic, dignified, negotiated exit at the polls. This is how things are best chosen: deciding between the whole Spanish people. But let's also go to your model, Mr. Sánchez, because you were talking here about the nation of nations. Again, the project behind it has resurfaced: the nation of nations. Do you remember when they launched the commission of nations? You said it was to see how the autonomous state was improving. No, no, no; today we have seen it bloom again. It was to speak of a nation of nations. It was to say that in the Basque Country we must support, as PNV and Bildu are proposing, a Basque status where there are first- and second-class citizens. What you have said here the truth is that I am concerned and could explain it to me in your speech. How is it to recover the unconstitutional part of a statute? How do you do that? If it is unconstitutional, Mr Sánchez, you will agree that it cannot enter into force again. You will agree that if the Constitutional Court has said that you cannot leave the Constitution, you cannot launch anything against the Constitution. Therefore, can you tell me how you intend to liquidate, from the Presidency of the Government, I suppose by the hand of the PDECAT, of Torra, of Puigdemont, of Rufián, of all its spokesmen, the constitutional status? Can you tell me what's wrong with the status of Catalonia being constitutional? Because I like the status of my land, the status of autonomy, to be constitutional, and not that those who want to liquidated my country tell the president of the government to make unconstitutional laws. [[Applauds]] There is an important difference between that government of twenty-two parties, with parties that want to liquidate Spain, and the government that, in our view, should leave a few ballot boxes, be a government that respects the Constitution, that works in the diversity of Spain but also to unite and facilitate the hand of the Spaniards, in a nation, Mr Sánchez, of free and equal citizens, a nation that we are the Spaniards. I know that you say that Madrid is a nation, said the candidate of the Socialist Party - now it turns out that Madrid is also a nation -. They also said that Formentera is a state from now on if Mr Sánchez rules. We have heard also - how was that phrase of yours? - that there are as many nations as nations have Spain: a phrase of yours. I think that is much simpler: Spain is a country, a nation of free and equal citizens that in diversity we are richer, but in union we are stronger. That's for me Spain. [[Applauds]] That is why we support censorship and that is why we do not support this Government, and that is why we do not support you as a candidate with a government with twenty-two political parties because, in addition to being impossible to govern, you will have demands and mortgages. You certainly haven't told us much of the mortgages you have; it's logical, you have to cover your head, feet and limbs, everything; you have to cover with the blanket, and the blanket is very small because there are 84 seats. You have come clearly to convince the Basque Nationalist Party, it is legitimate, but at the same time you mean that you have an equality project for the Spaniards. It is impossible because if the Basque Nationalist Party - which does not hide and defend it - believes that the Basque nation - they say - is different, has different privileges and rights and there are citizens of first and second, that is incompatible with the equality of the Spaniards, as is the project that Mr Tardà has told us. Do you believe that the model of your partner Tardà is compatible with the model of many Spanish constitutional socialists, of many socialists in Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, Madrid, Aragon, everywhere? I'm convinced it's not compatible. You haven't told us what's behind this pact. I understand that because it would probably be more scandalous. I suppose that behind this pact are the pardons that Mr.Iceta defended with cape and sword - so it was - the entire election campaign. We must pardon those who have given a coup d'état in Spain: that is the Socialist Party's star proposal in Catalonia. And will it not be better to protect those who comply, public servants and those who are harassed and threatened? Is it not better to defend democratic legality than to promise pardons to those who have missed democratic legality? [[Applauds]] I don't want pardons. unconstitutional statutes, statutes with first and second-class citizens, privileges, quotas and, on the other hand, pardons for politicians who commit crimes... That is not the model of government we want, Mr Sánchez, and that is why we cannot support it. But we do want to support a Spain that comes, a different Spain, a Spain that opens its way, a Spain that in addition the Spaniards will support - I am convinced - in the ballot boxes, beyond how many seats each party has because, win whoever wins the following elections, what is clear is that the Spaniards want to regain dignity, want to feel again part of public life, want to feel that we are all equal before the law and that nothing, not a handful of seats or a pact in a dark room, change their rights and freedoms. Mr Sánchez, I do not want a zombie government for corruption, but I do not want a Frankestein government with which they want to liquidate Spain. I want a strong government, a clean government, a government with democratic legitimacy, and the only democratic legitimacy we have, with the crisis we are experiencing and the lack of confidence we have, the ballot box. That is why I ask you, Mr Sánchez, to rectify, not to be afraid of the Spanish people because nothing happens. Let the best win, let the Spaniards choose who they want to be the president of the government, the parliamentary majority, but do not continue to steal from the Spanish people the ability to resolve what is happening here today with a vote. The vote, in short, is the ammo of democrats, it gives us strength, it gives us life as democrats, it makes sense for us to be here. We're sitting here because the Spaniards gave us a legislature. The legislature has been aborted, it has been liquidated, it is over. Therefore, the only democratic way out is for us to go back to the polls and for the Spaniards to put everyone back in their place, who will choose what they want for the future. Let me also tell you that in that Spain that is coming, a different Spain, a united Spain, a strong Spain, a Spain that is clean of corruption, in that Spain we must add, we must not subtract. We cannot go by the hand of those who want to divide us, we cannot go by the hand of those who want to establish borders between Spaniards. There is nothing more immoral than a border between compatriots, there is nothing more immoral than telling a citizen of a country that some are first and some are second, there is nothing worse than making foreigners in our own country to our families, and that is the project you have allied with, Mr Sánchez. I suppose you want to reach any price and you want to take it away from it, but those of us who have defended the Constitution in Catalonia, those who have known for many years what has happened in Catalonia and those who have also won the elections in Catalonia know that at this time more than ever, instead of being throwing the Socialist and Conservative plates at the head, we should be working together to guarantee an election, but also to ensure the implementation of the 155, to guarantee the budgets, ultimately to go together and not separate. In short, I propose a government chosen in the ballot box, which regains prestige, where people trust again, where the Spaniards once again have hope and illusion in the future, where they do not live bochons, but ultimately have opportunities and see and dream every day of a better country. This is a great country. Not even its investment partners, I am convinced that even if they try - we will also try to avoid it - they will be able to liquidate this country, because it has cost a lot, and you know it. I was right to say it, and I recognize it. There are many pro socialists, many statesmen who came from your party, those who today recommend you not to make this government, those statesmen with whom I also feel partaker of this country. I have no substantial differences on the important country issues with those socialists who are statesmen. I have them with their invention, I have them with this pact that makes no sense to try to rule Spain with those who want to liquidate Spain. That is why we are voting for Spain today, because we must maintain that Spain remains a united country, a country with freedoms, with equality. We will also vote in favour of the sense of state, which obliges us to seek a democratic solution. We must try to convince the President of the Government until the last minute to make the decision, the only one he can take to go to the polls and to leave in a democratic way. Today we must vote yes to what we have achieved together, because the Spaniards have achieved many things together, but they have to serve us to learn and look to the future. In short, in the coming Spain there must be more hope than frustration, more illusion than opportunism, more desire to change things than to remain the same. In Spain that surely comes bipartisanism will be a part, but it will not be able to lead an alternative if we are not able to look to the future together. In what you have agreed, Mr Sánchez, that, in this legislature with the People's Party, it is in not changing the Electoral Law - you have blocked it together - and in not changing the prosecutor's office - you have wanted it to remain the Government that chooses it - and you have not wanted the judiciary to reform, you have not wanted an educational pact to exist. In short, on the issues on which you must agree, you never agree, and on the issues on which you should not agree but have an independent model, you block and agree on the reforms that this country needs. Therefore, if we want reforms, if we want changes, we need a strong government, not a weak government like the one you are proposing. If we want to look to the future with hope but united, we cannot leave the reins of our future in the hands of those who are going to liquidate our country. That is why, Mr Sánchez, from the closeness in some social, economic or constitutional matters, but from the absolute distance in this formula that you bring here today with those who want to liquidate the country, with the populists and with anyone who links up, we cannot legitimise what can happen from now on with that minority government, with a country in complicated circumstances, with an economy in difficult circumstances at this time, as you know, and also with a situation in Catalonia where the pattern of what we do there cannot be marked by those who have tried to divide the Catalans. Finally, President, I am convinced that many Spaniards have not felt represented this morning by that debate of two Spains held artificially, a battle between two political leaders, one touched by corruption and another that has not won in the ballot box, that did not win an investiture, that has also had to rethink the project of his party and that today tries to reach La Moncloa in any way. Mr Sánchez, you cannot turn your back on the Spaniards, you must give them the voice, you cannot deny them the voice, it is time to give them the voice and not to be afraid. I'm not afraid of the Spaniards, I'm not afraid of their decisions. What I am afraid of is that some gentlemen who want this country not to work, some gentlemen who want to carry what has been achieved together, take over the reins of our country. That is why I propose that we open up a new time. You said this morning we have to open a new time. I agree, Mr Sánchez, with the need to open up a new time, I am sure that a certain stage has ended in which corruption marks the sign of the times, I also hope that in your party and in other cases of corruption. But, Mr Sánchez, that new stage of Spain, the new time of Spain, that cannot be opened by Mr Torra, that cannot be opened by Mr Rufián, that cannot be opened by Bildu, that cannot be opened by the populists, that new time in Spain must be opened by the Spaniards by voting, choosing and deciding. Therefore, let us open a new time where that coming Spain is opened step, where we give our hand to those who think the same and where we do not have complexes, in short, is to add. I hold hands with them, and if there are democratic elections, if the Spaniards choose in the ballot box, I promise here that, whatever happens in those elections, Citizens will be there to add, to make this country stronger and to have a more democratic country. And if anyone wants to break this country or wants to keep covering up corruption, they'll have us in front of them. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u133	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rivera. It has not been clear to me what he is going to vote on, whether he is going to vote on the motion of censure or not, whether he is going to abstain. [[laughs]] In short, I'd like you to clarify it because... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u136	... He said yes to Spain, yes to a lot of things. I also imagine that you will have recited in front of the mirror the speech you have told us about the whole House, but honestly it seems to me to be a summary of arguments, Mr Rivera, said with all due respect. [[Applauds]] From the moment the motion of censure was filed... I'm going to go a day early. Since 24 May, the first one who came out, logically, was Mr. Rivera in the media and said the following, said that there was one before and one after this sentence and that he called an extraordinary executive on 11 June! On Friday, 25 May, Mr Villegas, in an appearance before a media outlet that will pass into history - as well as that of Mr Páramo - at the time of the knowledge of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House, says that no, that there is no motion of censure, that what has to be done is to call an early election, not knowing that when a motion of censure is presented, logically no early elections can be called. But what does it matter!, in the words of Mr.Páramo, this is regulatory bureaucracy. [[Rumors]] On Monday, 28 May, Mr Rivera - inexplicably that weekend he did not appear to have gone through any media, he was missed - at a press conference he proposed two initiatives - because Mr Rivera always has two initiatives for the same subject, at least. Mr Rivera said: First, to agree with Mr Rajoy on an electoral advance in the autumn and, secondly, to propose to the Socialist Party to withdraw the motion and to sign another with an independent candidate. The People's Parliamentary Group and Mr Rajoy ask him to advance the elections and we withdraw the motion of censure and submit a motion of censure to call the early elections; that is, to sip and blow at the same time, Mr Rivera. That's not possible in politics! Not even in life! Move, say yes or no to the motion of censure! [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, on 30 May - because this does not end here - without talking to any of the potential candidates, Mr Villegas proposes in a conversation with Mr Ábalos to Javier Solana as an instrumental candidate without consulting him logically with these personalities. Then Mr Rivera appears in a medium of communication and proposes to Javier Solana, to Ramón Jáuregui - I was reminded earlier by Mr Ábalos -, to Nicolás Redondo or to Alfonso Guerra, without having spoken to any of them, without at least the parliamentary courtesy of having spoken and of having proposed, and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party either. By the way, Mr. Rivera, why don't you propose to a woman? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Since you start talking about instrumental candidates, why don't you propose to a woman? [[Rumors]] Mr Rivera, what I'm telling you is don't give too many circumlocies, don't give too many turns, say here and now whether you support the motion of censure or not, don't say that until the last moment you're going to try to convince Mr Rajoy to go ahead with the elections and resign. No, Mr Rivera, we are no longer on that page, we are no longer on that screen, there will be a vote to know exactly the outcome of that motion of censure. Mr. Rivera, if you want elections... By the way, you are not going to give me lessons in democracy, none, for I represent a party, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which in its history has defended democracy in this country before you arrived, Mr Rivera, before you arrived. [[Applauds]] What's the problem? The problem is calling elections, Mr. Rivera? Or is the problem who calls these elections, who signs the decree calling these elections? I think it's more the second than the first, Mr. Rivera. Therefore, we are no longer talking about that Spain that you say, we are talking about your electoral and partisan interests, Mr Rivera. You grow up in the polls - and then I will reflect on the polls, Mr Rivera - for the inability of the People's Party to face its irresponsible discourse of territorial confrontation and of course for the inability of the People's Parliamentary Group to assume political responsibilities. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, Mr Rivera, has a long life as President of the Government to continue to scratch electoral expectations. [[Applauds]] You can't allow that electoral strategy that you've sold, that you've designed or that you've believed – or everything at the same time, because the truth is it doesn't matter, it seems like you have a lot on your mind that then it's hard to understand and cohesive to give them coherence. [[Rumors]] What I want to say to you, Mr. Rivera, is that you cannot allow the People's Party to renew its leadership, there is a new leader, because if that happens, Mr. Rivera, your party's electoral expectations will fall to the ground, they will fall to the ground. That is why you tell us here that you want to advance the elections, that you want the Spaniards to speak - which are very grandiose words - that the vote of the Spaniards is the important thing, that they decide. The other solutions offered by the Constitution - because they are not being invented by the Socialist Party or my person - are set out in Article 113. You say that the Spanish speak, but in fact, Mr Rivera, what you want and want is for Mr Rajoy to continue as President of the Government to see him cook in the sauce of corruption to the People's Party as the whole democratic system deteriorates. You at least have the hope of that expectation that they sell you in the polls. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, for what it's worth, it might fit you in your prepared and pre-cooked speech. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Really, I mean it and, look, I mean it with respect. Do not make the same mistake that Mr. Iglesias made when he voted against the investiture of a socialist candidate. Mr. Iglesias, also as a result of the electoral expectations he had then for surveys that said he was going to'surpass' the Socialist Party - he legitimately thought - I do not say no - that perhaps he was going to overcome the Socialist Party, he was going to become the leader of the opposition and a new bipartisanism was going to be established, as he said in a certain media outlet in an interview. Mr Rivera, I say to you with all the affection and respect that we will see if you are the third political force in the elections. If you usurp the space that the People's Party has, and if it does its homework today, I wish you a black future. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Oh, oh, oh!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u137	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u138	Then, Mr Rivera, you speak of responsibility, you speak of a sense of state. If these words are not accompanied by facts, if they are not accompanied by content that is consistent, they remain hollow. He talks about the need to unite the peoples of Spain, the need to guarantee equality, to guarantee freedom, that compatriots cannot give up borders. We all agree with that, Mr Rivera. The problem, Mr Rivera, is that with your incendiary speech in the territorial crisis, what you are doing is to provoke more disaffection, polarise societies and not assume any political costs as a result of the flow of confidence you achieved in Catalonia. It has been months since the elections were convened and held in Catalonia on 21 December. You were the first political force. Did they do anything? Have you spoken to any parliamentary groups? Did they propose a way out of the situation in Catalonia? All they did, logically, was demand that the Spanish Government comply with the law, say that it wants a political solution and, again, only propose remedies before the Constitutional Court. In short, Mr Rivera, you live well and live at the expense of territorial confrontation. [[Applauds]] That reminds me of times past. That reminds me of the times of José María Aznar as president of the government. Do you know what I'm telling you, Mr. Rivera? That opposite will have the Socialist Party that defends the autonomous state, decentralization, a diverse and plural Spain, and not the homogeneous Spain, uniform that you defend. [[applause]] What is the value of your word, Mr Rivera? I, who have not been in this legislature since I resigned as a Member, have not been very attentive to the day-to-day reality of Parliament or of parliamentary work and, therefore, I am listening, but I have heard, for example, the People's Parliamentary Group on many occasions criticising Mr Rivera for disloyal. It is not that I believe the Government or the People's Parliamentary Group, but you have some reason to say it when Mr Rivera shows up five minutes before Mr Montoro to announce the great virtues of the State's General Budgets and say that they are orange budgets. As we reached an investiture agreement, I also granted you the benefit of the doubt, but what is to note are the multiple versions that, over the last few days, since the motion of censure was introduced, you have been turning to the media. Mr Rivera, you said that I did not contact you to talk about this motion of censure. You lie, and you know it. [[Applause.- Denials]] Perhaps this disloyalty is beginning to take some body, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mr Rivera says to me: Let us not see each other, Mr Sánchez; let us see Mr Ábalos and Mr Villegas. I say this more than anything because, as you have shared the version, I am going to put black on white, so that it is written in the Journal of Sessions, what has happened during these days. Mr. Ábalos met with Mr. Villegas, and Mr. Ábalos told Mr. Villegas: If there is an election call problem here, it is resolved,, there will be general elections. [[Mr. Rivera Diaz: And what else?]] No, we don't want Mr. Sanchez to call the election. Moreover, you presume and have presumed in this rostrum, Mrs Rivera, that you are a person loyal to the People's Parliamentary Group and to the Government and I will simply tell you what Mr Villegas said about the horizon of stability and loyalty that he proposed to the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of Spain in the coming months: They were not going to support his spending ceiling, they were going to lift the veto on many of the laws that you have blocked at the Bureau and, of course, they were going to destabilise as much as possible the Government of Spain and the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: They know that.]] This is what Mr. Rivera told us. [[Protest and applause from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.- A Member of Parliament: Traitor!- Mrs Vázquez Blanco: Out! Get out!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u139	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Wait a minute, Mr. Sanchez. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u140	What's happening, Mr. Rivera, is that you, simply and plainly, have no word. [[Rumours.-Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u141	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr Rivera Díez has the floor at the turn of the reply by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u142	Thank you, Madam President. I had proposed not to go down to the mud, at this morning's level between Mr Ábalos and Mr Rajoy, and I confess that I do not feel able to go down to where you have gone down, because Spain deserves much more from a president than what you have shown in this rostrum. But also, let me be clear, I'm going to tell you the truth. What we told you that we would not support the spending ceiling we also told Mr Martínez-Maillo. We told him exactly the same thing, because we're not going to support him. [[Applauds]] And we told Mr Martínez-Maillo that we would apply the Constitutional ruling in the sense of vetoes in the Bureau, complying with the Constitutional ruling. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, we said exactly the same thing to the party with which we have an investiture pact. By the way, it is true, you asked me with an SMS - you didn't even call me - when you presented the motion of censure, to see if we were talking to someone from Citizens, and I sent him to Mr Villegas, who is my secretary general and spoke to Mr Ábalos. I don't think I'm lying, am I, Mr. Ábalos? You did not propose to call elections; you want to rule at any price for a while, because you, as you have seen here, have a lot of free time in Ferraz, but you are not a Member, you are not in La Moncloa and you want to be at any price. [[Applauds]] Of course, as I told you here in front of others, I have no problem, but I am not going to do like you, I am not going to tell you here what you told me about Mr. Iglesias or Mr. Rajoy. I wouldn't even think about it because, ultimately, I'm not like you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] We will try to resume the flight, because the gallinaceous flight for a motion of censure and a state debate like this is not very advisable. What surprised me and confirmed what I read on that cover of El Mundo is that Mr Sánchez is, in fact, mouth-to-mouth with the People's Party. Mr Sánchez here has literally defended the goodness of the People's Party government, he has defended citizens' budgets. How good are Citizens' budgets with the People's Party? [[Protests]] So, Mr Sánchez, yes, indeed, those budgets that we negotiated in September, by the way, when you were in the no is no, are the same budgets that you say you have to apply, who has a problem? You who don't believe in those budgets or we who have defended them? The problem is you have it. We have a future President of the Government, if Mr Rajoy does not prevent him from resigning at the last minute, who is going to implement the budgets he was voting against yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Yesterday you voted with We can raise taxes. Yesterday, not twenty days ago. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez's intervention confirms what we had hoped for, confirms that there is a pact in bipartisanship to endure whatever this regime is running out, a pact to defend what Mr Sánchez said of 'the PP is not so bad'. [[rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u143	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u144	They just won't let me talk to either the left or the right. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u145	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u146	Yes, a stage is over and you need to save yourselves. In fact, it is up to me from socialist sources - and you know it - that you in the Moncloa have agreed with Mr Rajoy to extend the legislature until the last day with a single objective: to try - you said - to sharpen spaces and that citizens did not grow up in the polls. Stop looking at the polls, Mr. Sánchez, who has filed a motion looking at the polls! [[Applauds]] And if you had devoted half the vehemence, half the claw, half the will, even the passion, which you have devoted to my intervention with Esquerra Republicana, we would have done better. [[Applauds]] But for you, as for the Republican Left - the Spaniards have seen it - the main enemy is Citizens, who wants to defend the Constitution, who has governments with the Socialist Party and who we have reached agreements with the People's Party, and the ally are those who say that the Spaniards are beasts with genetic taras. Those are his allies. You have a problem, Mr Sánchez, and it is that your allies believe that we are inferior to those we want to be Spanish. And we're not inferior, we're equal. They believe that we must raise borders between Spaniards. And you're gonna legitimize all that speech? Today you are going to legitimize those gentlemen who have tried to break our country, those who have tried to make foreigners to our families on our land, those who have harassed and pointed out their councillors and mine and those of the People's Party and others, those who have surrounded judges so that they do not leave the Economics Council, those who pointed out to the magistrates, those who pointed out to their families. Those today want to be the partners of the Government of Spain. That is why, Mr Sánchez, it is not no, that is why we are going to vote no, because we cannot legitimise that those who want to liquidate this country come to the Government of Spain. Therefore, take note, that that phrase sounds to you: it is not no, because in this way you cannot reach the Government. Call elections if you want and you will show that you are not afraid of the Spanish people. But if you are finally invested President and do not avoid it Mr Rajoy, if you arrive at President of the Government with all these partners, we will indeed oppose a government that, in the end, intends to dismantle equality between Spaniards, which intends to liquidate solidarity and which intends to point out to those who think differently; we will confront those partners - yours - who intend to cut off the weakness of your government and a possible president. Do you remember that 'we're going to make a motion of censure against Citizens to retract' thing? Well, look, do you know what the picture of the portrait is? The Socialist Party with Bildu, with Republican Left, with Torra, with Puigdemont, with Podemos, with the Mareas and with Colau. That's the picture you have to rule with eighty-four seats. That's the picture we have left. [[Applauds]] Of course we must censure this government, of course we must finish the legislature, of course we must put in ballot boxes and of course the Spanish will have to vote, but they will do so precisely to prevent us from going from bad to worse, that we do not have to choose between fear or death. The Spaniards no longer have to choose between fear or death, they no longer have to choose between corruption or division, they no longer have to choose between covering their noses to vote for the reds or the blues; the Spaniards have more alternatives, fortunately, I would say. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, if you are President of Spain because Mr Rajoy does not avoid it, if you want to be President of Spain, I only propose one thing: raise a little bit more the list than you have shown us here today and be a little more belligerent with those who want to liquidate our country and a little more friendly with those with whom in some respects we share a country project. Don't make a mistake about your opponent. The adversary, in this case, of Spanish democracy is separatism, it is populism, it is not constitutionalism. I want this country to have a government between constitutionalists that we think differently but that we have common values, that we have a constitution that unites us, that is better able but that unites us. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, I am convinced that many socialists today will not be satisfied with a pact with the separatists. I am convinced that there are many socialists who do not understand why for forty years they have been defending the Constitution and equality and today their secretary-general is trying to reach power in any way with those who want to liquidate equality. I am convinced that there are many good socialists like Mr Guerra, who have said phrases I subscribe to, like Mr Felipe González, like Mr Nicolás Redondo, like Mr Lambán, who called for elections, or Mr García-Page. All these comrades of yours, Mr. Sánchez, are not my adversaries, they are my compatriots, I share a lot with them. And I would tell you that I share a lot with you too, except one thing, which is to get to power at any price. Spain does not deserve a Government with twenty-two parties that want to liquidate this country. Spain does not deserve any more weakness, it needs more strength. Therefore, we will work, we will see whether with an election or with a Frankenstein Government. In any case, in conclusion, I would like to address the Spaniards who are seeing us in this debate. Beyond today's battle between reds and blues, beyond the no to Rajoy or the no to Sánchez, there is a country, there is hope, there is illusion. [[Rumors]] There is a third Spain that opens its way... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u147	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u148	I'm gonna try and finish it. Don't get nervous. He told them that there is a third Spain that opens its way, that it doesn't have to stick to sticks, that it wants to add and not subtract, that it wants to unite and not divide, that it wants to give its hand and not its back. That is Spain in which I believe, that is Spain of free and equal citizens who shake hands despite diversity. [[Rumors]] It is Spain that unites the Spaniards, the one that has brought us here and, above all, it is Spain that has to take us very far. Therefore, the Spaniards who are seeing us, beyond this debate, beyond the show this morning, beyond the low level we have seen, beyond the government partners that Mr Sánchez claims, beyond the corruption of the People's Party... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u149	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u150	Thank you, President. I'm trying to finish it, there's only a few left. As I said, that Spain, in short, that opens the way between reds and blues, that wants to shake hands, that wants to lift up the Spanish democracy, that wants to rebuild the bridges, yes, between different but united Spaniards, that Spain I am convinced that it will end up coming. There will be a Spain in the ballot box that will prevent people like Mr Rajoy from squatting in his seat and not caring about Spain and people like Mr Sánchez from reaching the government at any price. [[rumors]] It ended up having to choose between the bad and the bad. Now is the time to choose, to vote, to choose and, above all, to choose the best for Spain. Let the Spaniards decide, that we owe them. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u151	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Well, he finally told us he was going to vote against the motion of censure. [[Rumors]] Maybe with Mr. Rivera's torrent of words, I'm sorry, but I didn't catch it. This exercise of contortionism, Mr Rivera, is simply possible in a political personality like yours. Is this government to be censored? Yes, but I will vote against this motion of censure. Should we call early elections? Yes, but I will vote against this motion of censure to unlock the situation and let the Spanish speak. Mr. Rivera, you can't be on both sides of the balance sheet in politics. You have to choose. In the end, force ends up choosing and looking to the right. Finally, I have not seen any dangerous independenceist - to continue with his words - in the motion of censure that the Socialist Party presented to the People's Party in the Madrid Community. Nor did I see dangerous independenceists - according to his words - in La Rioja or Murcia. And what have you finally done, Mr. Rivera? What you have done has been to perpetuate the People's Party in autonomous governments. [[Applauds]] The problem is that they are not consistent, that the words and facts do not accompany you, Mr Rivera, and you say different things depending on the day, the duplex in which you are and, from there, we all have to make a composition. And don't lie again, Mr. Rivera. You didn't want to see me. You asked to see Mr Villegas and Mr Ábalos and that if he deserved it, then we could meet. But you, Mr. Rivera, do not want elections. They don't want them. [[Rumors]] They don't want them! Because we have proposed to agree with you and the rest of the House to hold an election and you simply said no. What was the problem, Mr. Rivera? Your problem, your resistance, is that you don't want me to sign that decree calling for the general elections, Mr. Rivera. You want Mariano Rajoy to continue as president of the government. [[Applauds]] Look at what I'm telling you, Mr. Rivera. Yes, of course, it does because it first points out to them and tells them that they are a party that does not assume corruption and, on the other hand, demands that they have a hard speech in Catalonia extending or prolonging article 155. At least it would be appropriate, since you claim the authorship of article 155, to read the Senate's agreement because we in the negotiations we had with the Spanish Government did not see any citizen's deputy negotiating with the Government and the Socialist Party. It is true that you then put on the medal; but, in the end, these things always happen when we talk about Mr. Rivera and Citizens. In any case, Mr Rivera, that is your strategy and that is what has been revealed in this motion of censure process. If you had been consistent, consistent with your words, saying that you want general elections, that you want the Spanish and Spanish to speak and decide, what you should have done is support this motion of censure. What is the problem, what is the dilemma, what is the impossibility of doing so? You do not want to disenchant the disenchanted voters of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] You tell me that we are putting forward a rhetoric and a parliamentary dialectic of Gallinaceous flight - I think you have said - and that the flight must be lifted and the political debate must be lifted. I agree, Mr Rivera, we have to do this. But, I insist, democracy is not just demoscopy, Mr Rivera, democracy is principle, it is values, it is consistency, it is coherence. [[Applauds]] It just says things that cause me to blush. Because on the day we present the motion of censure, on the day we have heard the things we have heard from the People's Parliamentary Group towards the Socialist Parliamentary Group and towards my person, you accuse me of having a pact with bipartisanism! So we are voting against the People's Party to remain in the government and you are voting for Mariano Rajoy to continue in the government and you say that whoever has a pact with the People's Party is the Socialist Party! Man! Mr Rivera, we talked about this once when I was a deputy and we had the legislature with the investiture and we talked a lot about politics and we met our teams and we made the investiture agreement and so on. I honestly believed, Mr. Rivera, that Citizens would be something else. I'm really telling you. I thought the expectation could be opened. Mr Errejón says to me, 'I told you so myself.' Well, I recognize my mistake. I honestly believed that Citizens were going to be something else, that it was going to be a conservative center space that perfectly understood what represents a conservative vision of Spain but autonomous that ultimately came to regenerate the democratic life of this country. And in the end, Mr Rivera, you have come here simply to live off the paralysis and inability of the People's Party to resolve your corruption cases. [[Rumors]] And that's why, Mr. Rivera, that strategy you have the worst, the better, the better, the better it's going to be, the worse, for the country and for you. [[Mr Rivera Díaz and Mr Villegas Pérez point to the speaker]] By paraphrasing one of his extraordinary phrases that will pass into the history of parliamentarianism, when I get out of here and the Socialist Parliamentary Group votes in favour of this motion of censure I will be able to look into the eyes of the Spaniards. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Yes, yes!]] You, Mr Rivera, will have to bend them, because you have not been consistent with what has been said and done. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, applause, stood up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u153	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Iglesias Turrion has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u154	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u156	A motion of censure is a very important parliamentary event, it is a historic event. We are before the fourth motion of censure in the recent history of Spanish democracy. It is unacceptable that the seat of the President of the Government is occupied by a bag. [[Applauds]] It is a shame that the President of the Government is not sitting in his seat. It does not deserve the dignity of this House and it does not deserve the dignity of Spanish citizens. His last salary as President of the Government should have been earned by sitting where his obligation is to sit, in the seat of the President of the Government. I hope this will never happen again and all the presidents who make a motion of censure do not withdraw with their friends to a restaurant and are in their place, in the blue bank, sitting at the head of their government, assuming the censure for institutional respect and for the sense of democratic dignity. [[Protests.-Applause.]] I was sitting in my seat this morning when President Rajoy addressed me and said, "You, Mr. Iglesias, are going to have to eat the budgets with potatoes. And it's true, for a few months, we're going to eat their budgets with potatoes, but in that food he won't have sat down a single corrupt. [[Applauds]] Today is a very important day for us and for us. Between today and tomorrow we will achieve one of our main political objectives, which is to get the corrupt government out of our country and start cleaning up the state apparatus. We have been trying for a long time to convince the Socialist Party, the PDECAT, the Basque Nationalist Party that the only viable alternative to the model of the People's Party and Citizens is an understanding, a great agreement between progressives who are able to dialogue with the Basque and Catalan political forces. We've been saying it for a long time. For a long time we have been told that it is impossible, and between today and tomorrow the path we have been pointing out for many months as the only alternative to the model of Citizens and the People's Party will come true. That is why we are very satisfied and very happy. Let me tell you in this motion of censure about the problems of Spain, because what we are talking about here is giving a different horizon to our homeland. Spain has three major problems. The first is an institutional crisis. The apparatus of the State of our country is populated with corrupt people, criminals who use State institutions not to go to jail and to protect other criminals. That is why we have had to witness the unprecedented reprobation of many ministers of this government during this parliamentary term. The second major problem in our country is the dismantling of the institutions of the welfare state, the degradation of public services, the precariousness that forces millions of compatriots to have a great deal of difficulty in reaching the end of the month. And the third major problem in our country is the autonomous state of emergency. The model of the People's and Citizens' Party, sadly agreed by the Socialist Party, has broken the territorial integrity of our country because of its inability to reach agreements. Today, not only do they have to go from the government for their corruption; today, their political failure to face Spain's three major problems is evident here. You are a party unable to clean up institutions from corrupt because you are the corrupt. You are a party unable to defend the welfare state because you are the liquidators of the welfare state. They are a party and a government incapable of facing the institutionality of the plurinationality that constitutes our homeland because their monarchical centralism basically makes them not understand Spain. The day Mariano Rajoy was invested with the votes of Citizens and with the abstention of the Socialist Party I told him something. I said, "This is not a legislature, it's an epilogue, and it fills me with pride to be right. Today we finally send home the People's Party. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, many legal terms have been used today in this Congress. You have been and are the necessary co-operators of the corruption of the People's Party. You have held M. Rajoy to this day. You support the party of corruption in the Madrid Community, you support the party of corruption in Murcia; without you the corrupt would not have been able to entangle themselves in the government. And look, they're in a catapardian operation now. They are convinced of being the political formation called to inherit demoscopically the People's Party. They are convinced that it is the new political force of the oligarchies. They're convinced they're going to be able to devour their father. They are convinced that at the hour they may be able to attract the Socialist Party. Well, I'll tell you what. In front of their project of forest of salvation who can will always have us defending a project of country for the people, which we are proving that it is possible every day in the municipalities. [[Applauds]] Yes, Mr. Rivera, in the face of aggression, in the face of the Joshentonian discourse, in the face of violence. It is a shame what you have told Esquerra Republicana, to take advantage of while the Socialist Party is ruling to breach the law. You're a teaser. The speech you've made here is more like a fascist than a Democrat. [[Applauds]] In front of that you'll always have us in front of you, Mr. Rivera. I would like to address the political parties that would like Catalonia and Euskadi to be independent States of Spain. You have sometimes said, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is the PP and Citizens. That's not true. Spain is not the PP and Citizens and progressism in Spain is not only represented by the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] There is a new Spain that does not believe in kings, there is a new Spain that asks them to dialogue. Let's talk together, let's talk about building a Spain in which a nation called Euskadi and a nation called Catalonia fit. We are ready to build that fraternal and plurinational Spain with you. We're willing to do it. [[Applauds]] The proof that plural, multilingual, diverse and plurinational Spain is possible is being demonstrated in the municipalities of change. You know that the dignity of the Catalan institutions during the months of implementation of 155 has been maintained by the City of Barcelona. We are proud that the main municipalities of our country are pointing out a way to build a Spain in which no one wants to go because everyone can be as they wish in a modern and democratic Spain. [[Applauds]] Let us work together so that perhaps our children can live in a fraternal and plurinational republic. Let's work together. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, it's better late than never. We're going to vote for him to be the next president of the government, but we invited him a year ago to do this. Since you, with all the media and oligarchical powers against you, won a primaries saying plurinationality, United-We can as a preferred partner and take Rajoy out of the government, we invite you to lead a motion of censure. You say that the People's Party is different today than a year ago. You know that's not true. You know that the corrupt are corrupt and that they should be out of institutions before and after that sentence that has given you the opportunity. But it's better late than never, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] However, the obligation of a candidate for the Presidency of the Government is to present a government programme and a country horizon. You cannot say in this rostrum that your government program is the budgets of the People's Party. I know it was hard to convince the Euzkadi Buru Batzar to order his deputies to vote yes. I know, too, that I did my job. Aitor Esteban himself acknowledged here that the possibility of an instrumental censorship motion to call elections has helped to move the will of the Basque Nationalist Party. But one thing is that and another is not to offer a horizon to Spanish citizens. I cannot allow my candidate for the Presidency of the Government to be humiliated by Mr Mariano Rajoy, when he mocks you by saying that he will govern with eighty-four Members and with his own budgets that he has not voted. You have to have more dignity. You will be the president of all Spaniards and you have to present here a program of government and a horizon of progress. You can't allow the corrupt to humiliate you. You have to explain here how you're going to clean up the state apparatus. You have to explain here that the next Minister of the Interior is going to withdraw the medal to Billy the Child and that you are going to prevent the Ministry of Justice from intervening and pressing the judges. [[Applauds]] You, who for some reason have not limited the speaking time in the motion of censure, must detail the measures taken by your Government. You also have to present a social program. It is not enough to lift the Government's vetoes. It is not enough to speed up the initiatives blocked by the Bureau of Congress. You have to talk here about a health policy, an educational policy, an environmental policy, a policy of respect for civil rights, because you don't speak to the PNV here today and you don't have to count the SMS sent with Rivera, but you have to talk to the Spanish. You have that seems to be presidential, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Its third challenge is dialogue on the territorial issue. It's not enough to say good morning in Catalan. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u157	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u158	It is necessary to recognize what you recognized in the primary schools: that Spain is plurinational. You need to listen. The institutional challenge of building a diverse and plurinational country needs to be met. That implies, in my view, assuming republican values. Today you are going to ask for votes from independent political formations, from formations that would like to have an independent Basque State or an independent Catalan State. If you want to be president of all Spaniards you cannot conform to being the lesser evil. You have to worry about Mr. Tardà's speech. Mr Tardà's speech has been to say: This is a yes but no, because I do not trust you. You should say to Mr Tardà: I am prepared to go on the path of institutional dialogue in order to find a democratic formula that will allow us to build a future all together. You can't settle for being the least bad, you can't be the choice between 'Guatemala and Guatepeor', you have to aspire to be a president to whom Catalan citizens, Basque citizens and all Spanish citizens respect. Mr. Candidate, this I'm telling you is not new. Adolfo Suarez understood. When Adolfo Suárez, a gentleman who came from the political apparatus of Francoism, met with Tarradellas, he fully understood that a republican institution such as the Generalitat had to be recognized as pre-existing to the 1978 Constitution, and that only by recognizing the Generalitat de Catalunya, a republican institution prior to the Constitution, was it possible to integrate Spain. That was also understood by Felipe González when he saw what happened in Andalusia, how Andalusians and Andalusians gained their right to be recognized as historical nationality on the street against the Government. That sank the UCD and turned the Socialist Party into a hegemonic party in Andalusia: understanding the territorial complexity of our country. Therefore, if you aspire to be President of the Government, you have to make a speech on the territorial issue, which you missed in your speech this morning. [[Applauds]] This is also understood by the right. Or why do you think that the right is appearing in Navarre with a confluence called the Navarro People's Union? Why do you think the right wing defends the Navarro Improvement Act, which for many jurists is in practice the status of an associated free state? Why do you think the right wing defends an autonomous Basque Finance and the foreign minister acknowledged that in international treaties affecting the tax powers of the Basque Government, the latter must be represented? Any statesman, anyone who aspires to be president of Spain has to understand by the right and the left the territorial question. There's someone who doesn't understand, Mr. Rivera, but you still have a lot left to be a statesman. [[Applauds]] That's why, Mr. Sanchez, you can't get out of here weak. Mr. Rajoy has tried to humiliate you. He said: You have 84 Members, you have only my budgets as a political programme. Be responsible and build a parliamentary majority of 156 and a fraternal and serious dialogue with the Basque and Catalan political forces. You show that you can have a much stronger government than that of the 134 Members of the People's Party. You live up to what you have to be a president in Spain of the end of bipartisanism. The Spanish have said that there are no longer two parties, that there are at least four, and with 84 deputies one cannot govern without reaching government agreements, not only of investiture and legislature, with more political forces. He assumes to be the first president of the 21st century who understands the political changes that have taken place in Spain. [[Applauds]] Finally, I want to address people who have not lost hope. A year ago we planted here a seed of hope that is germinating in these hours. I would like to thank the women who made a strike on 8 March, the pensioners who surrounded Congress. Thank you for not losing hope. This motion of censure is not of any party, it is of them and they. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u159	I give the floor to Mrs Martín González. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u160	Thank you, President. Today is a day for hope because for the second time in this legislature we have the opportunity to put an end to the government of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. This morning we heard the still president of the government that people should not be fooled. We are talking about M. Rajoy, the president also portrays, now absent, that government supported by an organization set up to commit crimes. Mr. Rajoy, wherever you are, you have not had the dignity to resign, and look at you have had years and opportunities, do you think you can teach anyone lessons? That Rajoy can't teach us lessons everyone already knows, even if he wanted to hide his shame behind his cynical tone and his own irony as a television monologue. Only someone who lives disconnected from what he's seeing and living most of the citizenship out there can afford to do those funny things at a time like this. [[Applauds]] Do you live from corruption and lies, and come to this rostrum to give lessons of morality and height of sight? Who? You already lack all credibility and prestige and Rajoy will pass into history as the first president of the government to whom Parliament has had to send home because for years he has not had the honesty to leave on his own feet. Today we can leave behind a government that has led this country to a critical situation, that has impoverished us, that has worked to dismantle absolutely everything: our public services, our pension system, our television, the rights for which women have fought for years. A government that has endorsed censorship, the persecution of freedom of expression and imprisonment for those who write, tweet or rap, because thanks to its law, thanks to the reforms of the Penal Code, thanks to all this, we are in a process of absolutely unique democratic involution. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u161	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u162	This is also what you are projecting towards Europe. But today we can put an end to all that, and we can do so because we have continued to work despite its legislative blockade, because we have heard the citizen mobilizations and because we have the momentum of the municipalities of change. From our Confederal Group, with humility but plenty of reasons, we tried to throw them out a year ago, when for the first time in history a woman, my partner Irene Montero, intervened in a motion of censure. [[Applauds]] Then it was the Socialist Party that did not know how to accompany us, but today we will not fail. We are not going to fail ourselves or so many people who today feel that a new time can be opened without the People's Party at the front. [[Applauds]] Today is a day for hope, because we do not forget mai qui som nor why we are here. We enter the institutions to fight corruption, to defend the rights of the majority and to end the privileges of a few, to defend a model of plurinational country in which we are able to see more than Spanish, especially when it comes to distinguishing between corrupt and honest people. [[Applauds]] Despite being aware of the difficulties, that is our yes today in this Chamber, a yes to put an end to the ballast that the People's Party and its crutch, Citizens, have assumed for this country. Mr. Rivera said today was a horrible day for the country. Mr. Rivera, you no longer differ from your mentor, Mr. Rajoy. But we want to do something more than give a yes, because if the Socialist Party had had a moment to meet with the rest of the groups before discussing this motion, we could have suggested three tasks; firstly, to clean up the institutions of corruption; secondly, to build majorities in this House that would allow us to respond to the problems that concern citizens by guaranteeing decent pensions, regulating abusive rents, approving equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity permits, responding to the demands of feminist groups; and thirdly, essential, to initiate a process of distension and dialogue with Catalonia. [[applause]] The Catalans and the Catalans deserve a truce and a government that holds bridges, Mr Sánchez. In July 2017 you said: we want for Catalonia a great avenue of agreement, dialogue, negotiation and pact. September 2017: the departure in Catalonia is called dialogue and more self-government. October of the same year: every president of the government has to anticipate crises and not feed them. Those are your own words, Mr Sánchez, and that is what should guide your Government's action in relation to Catalonia. Solutions must be political, they must not go through the courts. With our yes we tell you not to be marked by those who grow up in confrontation and hostility. We are sick of the aggressiveness, the worst of it, the tensions that erode our bonds, because if something has taught us feminism is also the importance of affections and of understanding that our strengths are also in diversity. [[Applauds]] There is no doubt that we are experiencing historical moments, moments that have been possible thanks to thousands of citizens. Pensioners, feminists, people who represent the hope of this country, the hope and the illusion of honest people who deserve the joy of throwing out a gang of corrupt people who have no respect for democracy. Our yes goes for all of them, and it goes for us too, for women, because after throwing out the People's Party we have, comrades, a future to build. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u163	Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, United Left, like the rest of the Confederal Group, will vote in favour of the motion of censure that you have tabled here with your parliamentary group, and do you know why we are going to do so? We are going to do this because we believe that there is a horizon of hope for this country, and depending on what you want, what the rest of Parliament wants, there is the possibility of transiting it or not, and we hope so. Mr Sánchez, look around you, and I am not referring to this Chamber, I am referring to the street; we have talked here about corruption, but I think it is important to underline above all one of the consequences of the existence of the People's Party and its policies. Around us, on the street, what we have is the vital precariousness installed and consolidated. We have a precariousness that extends everywhere: wages of misery; contracts of garbage; inability to buy a home, to have a home; the rise in the price of light, today has been recognized the rise, 8%; the difficulty, in short, to be able to form a project of life. Those are the problems of the people out there, those are the problems of the simple people, the humble people, the people who are our neighbors, our friends, our families, us and ourselves. Those difficulties are not random, they are the consequence - you know that because you are an economist like me and you know that this has not fallen from heaven - of certain policies. It is the consequence of Article 135; it is the consequence of the expenditure rule; it is the consequence of the policies put in place by Mr Montoro, here present; it is the ultimate consequence of neoliberal cut-off policies. I think it is important to open this stage of hope precisely to combat these policies, and that is also up to you. The authoritarianism with which the People's Party is acting in our country, the climate of repression that is being installed throughout the country that leads to singers, rappers and tweeters going to jail simply for making use of their freedom of expression on social networks. The People's Party, with its policy, is attacking life itself, because you also know that it is not only about precarious labour relations, it is about precarious living. And it's that for life to exist, it takes to protect the care and the planet. Protecting care and the planet is the feminist message that most sounded and resonated the 8-M, but it turns out that to do that you have to shield public services, public health, public education, public pensions and end patriarchy. All this will only be possible if we are able to combat the Stability Programme of the People's Party agreed with the European Union, which implies a reduction in public investment in gross domestic product. That is the Gordian knot of what you are going to find in the government. [[Applauds]] Count on us to break it, count on us to open a process of hope and illusion for this country, to build a different Spain from that which Mr Albert Rivera and Mr Mariano Rajoy want to design. It is a plural Spain, it is a diverse Spain, it is a Spain in which we recognize ourselves as different but within the same project. You will have your model, we have ours - ours is called the federal republic - but let us sit down, open dialogue, negotiation and build a Spain so that in thirty years' time our sons and daughters can live in a country where the material conditions of life are sufficient to develop a project in freedom, which today with the People's Party is not possible. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u165	Mr Fernández Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u166	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by expressing and showing our support for the motion of censure tabled in this House, because from En Marea we believe that it is imperative for a civic-political reason to carry out an exercise of democratic regeneration necessary not to help sustain for longer a government whose party formation has been sentenced for illegal financing. The ruling of the National Court on the Gürtel plot proves the existence of a B box in the People's Party that was worked through an internal and external corrupt plot for almost twenty years, and the National Court itself considers that the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, lied in court, making him a president and a person with credibility on the ground. With such a court ruling on the table, did it really seem to you that you could continue in the exercise of government? Do you imagine a similar situation in any of the advanced European countries you are so much talking about? As Paraguayan writer Roa Bastos said, the power of corruption infection is more lethal than that of pestilence, and the People's Party here and now is infected and suffers from the plague of corruption. [[Applauds]] In Marea, before such a desolating panorama, we will vote yes to this motion of censure; but our yes, which is a constructive and upbuilding yes, is also a critical yes - understand well - because it does not want to be an intrusive or balady yes; we cannot be indifferent, passive or neutral carefree. In Marea, Mr Sánchez, regardless of whether we would have liked to sit down and talk about the formation of the foundations of a new governability, we are - and we want to think that you are too - immediately reversing the neoliberal policies of cuts in the social, health, labour, wage, cultural, pension, housing, macho violence... All these themes are fundamental to us, to the constructive lefts, to the progressive lefts. Our Confederal Group, the municipalities of change - A Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago de Compostela, Madrid, Barcelona, Cádiz - we have on the north the social justice and the well-being of the people, and En Marea we would have liked to be able also to address the situation of our country, the situation of Galicia, because the Government of the People's Party - see the budgets - has practically frozen the investments of the State in Galicia, placing the Galician territory in a state of pause and paralysis, when not of abandonment, of sluggishness, as we say in Galicia. See if not the case of road or rail infrastructure in the province of Lugo, for an example among many. There are no new projects for Galicia and the zero commitment to the Galician productive sectors - the agricultural sector, the dairy sector, the fishing industry, the shipbuilding industry, the conservatory - is symptomatic of the poor role to which Mr Feijóo and Mr Rajoy have relegated to the Galician country. The debate on a new system of autonomous financing and the demographic problem, the new outbreaks of emigration and the very serious setback suffered by the Galician language should be addressed, all in the context of the serious damage done by the People's Party in Galicia, reducing to an incredible extent the status of historical nationality that the Galician nation possesses. You are committed, Mr. candidate, to rectifying this adverse political reality. It is not about evicting a government so that everything remains the same, it is not about playing that everything changes so that, finally, nothing changes. You will have our vote in favour, Mr Sánchez, being aware that we deserve a future where the Government of the State projects a clean horizon for democracy and puts public resources at the service of the social majority and the common good. Let us not make one more day real - I am finishing, President - what Don Ramón María del Valle-Inclán said and which I now refer to what concerns us, to this current circumstance: Spain, the Spanish State, must cease to be a grotesque deformation of European civilization. It's in our hands, time to time. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u167	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Iglesias; thank you, Unite-We can and the confluences, for the support you will give to this motion of censure. Thank you, Mrs Martín, Mr Garzón and Mr Fernández. Mr. Iglesias, as long as you try to situate and enumerate crises, some may remain in the dark. You have set the institutional crisis, the social crisis, the territorial crisis - which I of course share with you - and you would probably point out, not to the economic crisis, but to the economic challenge that is obviously going to involve, and a lot, the left to transform the economic model that we have, that right now is based on precariousness, on the null productivity of the workers. Therefore, it is necessary to reverse all this situation and modernise our productive fabric so that it is not only the construction and tourism sector, which are of course very important, the engines of growth in our country. Politically, Mr. Iglesias, what I can tell you is that we start working humbly and with a strong dose of realism. I recall that we have sometimes commented that right now many of the approaches that exist in the economic sphere, even in the conservative sphere of politics, are that the left cannot govern in the society of the twenty-first century, that the left has impossible proposals and that, therefore, what we have to do is align with an orthodoxy imposed either by the markets or by the global economy. I don't want to get into that, but that's the reality. I think that on some occasion I told him in private one of the things that I was most impressed by a conversation I had with Ricardo Lagos, the first socialist president of democracy in Chile. Dinner with him at his home, he told me that, before the first council of ministers, he proposed to the people who would occupy the ministries to make an investiture speech as if it were an exit speech, as if it were a speech that would be delivered four years later. The question he asked these ministers and ministers was how they wanted to be remembered in health, in education, in the multiple spheres of government in Chile. Ministers and ministers said: By extending education to all the peoples of Chile, by universalizing health... And President Lagos told them something that I was left on tape. He said to them, "You are wrong, we must be remembered by the left who knew and was able to rule this country." I believe that this is the challenge we have in the area of the left, to know how to combine hope with realism; to know how to reconcile the legitimate aspirations of many citizens whom we want to represent, who suffer from inequality, who suffer from precariousness, who suffer from social injustice, with a possible path in which we can see the differences between progressive policies, left policies and conservative policies. That's where I think we can meet. I believe that we have a huge responsibility, especially your group and my group, to materialise a hope that has begun to be seen for a good part of Spanish citizenship after the motion of censure to Mariano Rajoy materializes tomorrow and, consequently, opens up a new time in Spanish politics, and we have to do so with a lot of humility and with a lot of realism, without sinning for ambition and hope, of course. I am sorry and sorry that you feel that what I have proposed today is unambitious. I believe that the step taken by the House as a whole by assuming for the first time in the history of democracy in this country the responsibility that the President of the Government has not taken with the resignation that was inescapable, indefatigable, inexplicable. In that sense, I have offered a road map which, logically, has an end, and in this, Mr. Churches, I do not want to deceive you either. It is clear that we have to go to a general election; it is clear that this legislature has ended, and has not ended for us, by a sentence and by a series of cases of corruption that have led us to this situation, to this absolute convulsion of public opinion that has borne fruit in a motion of censure that is going to come forward, apparently. It is therefore appropriate that we do not deceive citizens or deceive ourselves. I think we need to be aware that there is a road map, and that that road map has to be that of the call for early elections. I have offered to all the groups in the House that we agree on this electoral horizon and that, in the meantime, what we do is meet some objectives that are logically ideological and others that are purely realistic, of necessity. It is clear - I thank you very much and I understand that this is what you wanted to say in your speech - that out of responsibility what we will do will be, in the event that the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate makes a lot of amendments, that they will not succeed and materialise in the debate in the Congress of Deputies and, therefore, we have budgets that I believe are necessary for this country. Let us execute them during 2018 and lay the foundations to see if we can reach agreements in the spending ceiling and also in the general budgets of 2019. I think that is the best contribution we can make from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Socialist Group, so that when the Spaniards are called to the polls they will see that the left have done our duty and that we have assumed a responsibility that has not been assumed by the right, neither Mr Rivera nor Mr Rajoy, but that we are going to assume it, even if we come to contradictions, assuming contradictions in our own speech, because I believe that we have not chosen this political time, we have been given this political moment as a result of what is already known; therefore, all I ask is not to generate expectations that can then break the confidence of people in need of shelter and the protection of politics, of the good policy that I believe we are defending. In this programme of government of stability and democratic regeneration - you have said, Mr Iglesias, also Mrs Martín, Mr Garzón and Mr Fernández - we can find ourselves in many things. In my speech this morning I spoke about the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation, but we can talk about many other things, other institutions that need to be regenerated, that need to be prestigious and, of course, I also hold my hand so that we can talk about it. It is also important that we launch from Spain and, above all, after what is happening in Italy, a message of stability, of commitment to Europe and of commitment to budgetary stability, is evident. I share with Mr Garzón, we have said here - I am not going to say this - that the horizon of the stability programme that the Spanish Government has proposed is not ours, it could not be from any left-wing party. To think that public spending in our country accounts for 38% of gross domestic product while the EU average is above 40%, of course, is not a horizon on which we feel recognized. To plan that our educational system recovers the levels of investment of the year 2008 in the year 2025 - I think I remember, if the memory does not fail me -, logically, it is not the horizon of a progressive party like ours and like yours. But I think it is important that we be humble, that we do not break expectations, that we be very aware that citizenship has to do with you and me, with the political project that you represent, and with the political project that I represent, is that we knew and were able to govern a country in circumstances as complex and extraordinarily difficult as those which Mr Rajoy and the People's Parliamentary Group have bequeathed to us. And there we are going to find ourselves; we are going to find ourselves in gender policies, we are going to find ourselves in environmental policies, we are going to find ourselves in climate policies, we are going to find ourselves in regeneration policies, we are going to find ourselves in the policies of reversal of many of the privatizations or the failures of the universality of public health and dependence. We're gonna meet in all that. The difficult thing surely, Mr. Iglesias, is to find the numerical concreteness and the horizon that we can give in the coming months - and I hope in the coming years - to this recovery of the rights lost during these years of absolute majority and conservative majority in this House. But, of course, my intention is not to sin unambitiously. Probably my self-containment is that it's so much responsibility that we have, it's important to do things right. I have no doubt that, because of the intervention you have made, it is also in your mind. With regard to the territorial debate, we have talked about this, you and I, and I therefore believe that we will have sufficient time to do so. There is a root discrepancy, and it is that you mark the 78th Constitution as a sort of regime, a prolongation or a transfiguration of the Franco regime into a democratic regime, and I believe it is not. I sincerely believe that this is a mistake, that precisely in the 1978 Constitution what he did was to shed light on a framework of constitutional coexistence, which learned one of the great lessons precisely from our tortuous history of Spain, and that in the end decentralization, the deconcentration of power and democracy have always gone hand in hand in our country. When there have been democratic processes in our country, it has always been the result of decentralization, the recognition of diversity in the form of self-government and also the consolidation of democracy. But I am no longer saying this only because of the historical nationalities to which you have referred - you have done well to remember the Andalusian example, but we could talk about Extremadura, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla and León or many others -, I am saying this more than anything, Mr. Iglesias, because for many years with centralist models, it is true that with dictatorial regimes, precisely many of those territories were relegated, they did not create any kind of opportunities and were plunged into the most unjust underdevelopment as a consequence also of that unified centralist vision that has always had conservatism in our country. You make a very unfair balance sheet and review of the 1978 Constitution. I believe that, at all events, it is the consequence of a dictatorial regime, of a transfiguration of Francoism into a pseudo-democracy. I believe that our democracy is perfectly homologable to democracies in our environment. Moreover, if we look at the most prestigious indices of democratic quality, Spain is above countries such as France or the United Kingdom and competing with Germany. Therefore, despite the difficulties and the need to regenerate democratic life, it is also important to demand the institutions in our country and, of course, the great consensus we reached in 1978. There we have always done an ambitious exercise, and it is that of defending the Constitution and, as a result, proposing a horizon of reform and renewal of the Constitutional Pact. There you will be able to defend what you see, you will be able to defend the right to self-determination in Catalonia and you will be able to defend issues with which, in the end, we are not going to agree. We are not going to agree with those kinds of issues. I think it is legitimate for you to defend them, because you defend them precisely within the legal framework, within the constitutional framework. We believe that it will not serve to resolve the Catalan issue or the issue of the fit of historical nationalities or, above all, territorial cohesion in our country, but I understand that you will do so. We believe that it is important to do something I have already referred to in the reply to Mr Tardà, which is to strengthen all the instruments of federal cooperation that our country does not have right now. The Senate is the key to this, but so are the sectoral conferences and the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, in which the Government of Spain, because yes, has 51% of the votes. In other words, Spain does not maintain a federalist position towards the rest of the autonomous communities. These are debates that we need to open. They are probably too ambitious to put them on the legislative horizon that we are designing, but in any case, we will always have a position on this. Mr Iglesias, I really thank you for the tone, position and generosity of betting on this motion of censure and for the candidacy proposed by the Socialist Party without having negotiated anything. I want that to be in the Journal of Sessions, because I think it's a good start to understand us. Mrs Martín has referred to many things and I believe that some of them have already been answered in previous speeches. I am left with something important that you have commented on, which is the gender issue. There we can do enormous things over the next few months, things that you have proposed and things that we have proposed. I think that's where we can meet. Mr. Garzón, I would like to convey my thanks to you. I share with you that the present of precariousness and inequality that lives much of Spanish society is a consequence of the conservative policies that have been proposed and that must be reversed. Let's go step by step. I would like once again to stress to you the commitment of the Socialist Party and my own in the gallery to repeal the most questionable aspects of the law, which I imagine is to which you have referred in your speech, as Mr Iglesias has done. Mr Fernández, from En Marea, I would also like to thank you. In short, I believe that today is a good day for the left; today is a good day for the Spaniards that we feel progressive; today is a good day for all those who, even if not voting for União Podemos, the Socialist Party or progressive formations, believe in democracy and believe that this House today has done a great service to democracy by putting an end to the Government of Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u169	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrion has the floor in the turn of the replica.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, thank you. First of all, thank you for the tone. You've done something very brave before. I heard him at a very difficult time in his political career recognize on a television program that had been wrong with Citizens and today he has said it again here. He is honoured to say so in this parliamentary rostrum, just as he is honoured to have resigned from his seat for maintaining the consistency he has always advocated not to facilitate the investiture of a People's Party Government. I want to apologize also for whether I have often been unable to work with you more effectively; perhaps, if I had been, we could have saved ourselves certain things. With regard to the 78's regime, I think we should talk more; perhaps we would understand each other better. What he was trying to explain, in particular by quoting Suárez and Felipe González, was that the political regime of 78 was extremely successful in managing conflicts inherent in Spanish political culture and in establishing broad consensus. Whenever a democratic period has opened up in the history of Spain since the nineteenth century, there has been an element, plurinationality, which has flourished. Just remember the junta movements and cantonalist movements in the 19th century and the experience of the First Republic, the experience of the Second Republic and the democratic experience since 1977. In Spain this is managed in a very particular way from the recognition of the Catalan Generalitat and also from the autonomy and recognition of the historical nationality of the Andalusian people. And a strange House is being built, the Senate, which, unfortunately, does not look like the German Bundesrat, which is a House of Representatives of the Länder, which perhaps would have brought our homeland closer to a more sensible system of territorial representation. But the architects of the 78's political system demonstrated an enormous political height, despite the difficulties. Manolo Vázquez Montalbán defined the Spanish transition as a correlation of weaknesses, making a bitter mockery of the old Marxist term of the correlations of forces. He spoke of correlations of weaknesses between Francoism elites, who had no legitimacy, and clandestine opposition elites, who had all legitimacy but had no strength. And yet, despite their limits, they have achieved something that you have said and that is true: they have managed to make in Spain a political system that is homologable to the European democratic systems of the winning powers of the Second World War. And that, in general, was good news for Spanish citizens, despite their limits, that nothing happens to recognize them. Someone as unsuspecting of radicalism as Adam Przeworski was surprised that in the Spanish political transition the economic elites, the oligarchies, had followed exactly the same conditions of domination of the main economic sectors. But there were two fundamental elements to understanding the success of that political system. The first one was the protagonist of his party: the unprecedented extension of public services in Spain. The Spanish, with the governments of Felipe González, knew something they had not known: a good public education system and a good public health system. And, at the same time, there was a construction of the state of autonomy that served to manage, always conflictingly, the political reality and the particular Catalan political ecosystem and the Basque political ecosystem, and also the Galician, and to understand the territorial complexities of other territories such as the Valencia Country, such as Andalusia or the islands. The problem, and this is perhaps what we did not understand, is that those consensus of the 78 regime jumped into the air. The political system of 78 was based on a series of parties, two major national parties and parties committed to the system, a great Catalan party like Convergence i Unió and the party that has best resisted the political crises in Spain, which is the Basque Nationalist Party, despite the fact that we had the honor of winning it two general elections in Euskadi; it is an honor for anyone to win the PNV two elections in Euskadi. But in Spain the 15-M put on the table that there was a crisis of the system of 78, a crisis in the construction of the social model and, at the same time, put on the table that was dragging a huge crisis in the territorial system. That is what I propose to you that we assume as political tasks for, I wouldn't even tell you for the next few years, the next decades! These are state tasks that we have to assume as our country's own political tasks. You said important things. He said that our economic model cannot be based on precariousness. I totally agree. We need a productive model that is not based, as you say, only on tourism. We have to bet on innovation, we have to bet on the productive model, on social justice, too, and that means turning the demands of the feminist movement into public policies and making equal pay the fundamental axis of the policy of a progressive government. But for that we have to assume that the budgets of the People's Party are not enough for us, that they are temporary budgets and that we will have to use extraordinary devices to make a progressive policy from the government. You have quoted Ricardo Lagos and honor him with the affection he shows for him. I would ask you to discuss other socialist references. Ricardo Lagos privatized too much in Chile. Ricardo Lagos indebted Chilean students. I would ask you to take an example of what Jeremy Corbyn is proposing in the United Kingdom or Bernie Sanders in the United States. One of the fundamental problems of the crisis of the European political systems that happened to the anti-fascist victory in the Second World War is the crisis of social democracy, which you have resisted very well, but which has claimed the health of socialist parties in many European countries. I think that has to do with the failure of Tony Blair's third path, I think that has to do with the failure of Gerhard Schröder's model of social-liberal management. Let us talk about that, because we will certainly agree to take other socialist references to build public policies that allow us something very important that, in my opinion, should be a challenge for you. I think you can be the first president of a new southern socialism in Europe. We are the fourth economy in the euro area and I believe that a broad government, a government that can lead you, can represent a different management alternative within the framework of the European Union. A country as small as Portugal, with the sovereign limits of Portugal, has managed to become an example of another policy being possible in Europe. Let us forget the prescriptions of the third way and try to build a viable, sensible policy that will turn our country into a reference for all European progressives. We cannot allow something similar to what is happening in Italy in our country, something similar to what is happening in France or something similar to what is happening in Germany, and you have the opportunity to be a global reference in one of the most important countries in the European Union to put forward a different policy. We have already worked together in autonomous communities and we are doing well. We've worked together in town halls and we're doing well. You said we have to go to general elections. I'd say what we have to do is win the next general election together. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u171	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u172	Thank you, Madam President. If you will allow me, Mr. Iglesias, I will answer from the seat for the time it is, to thank again the position of the United Parliamentary Group Podemos and the confluences. I would also like to thank you for your generosity, your willingness to be able to walk together in many of the policies you have commented on and, indeed, to create those conditions so that when the Spanish and Spanish are called to the polls, the left can win the elections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-31-CD180531.u173	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and fifty minutes of the night.
