ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the debate on the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, an organic reform of Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to ask you to take this bill into consideration, which seeks to amend section 15.6 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, with the aim of allowing the rejection or veto in the Senate of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt to be lifted by Congress by a simple majority. Ladies and gentlemen, there are technical-legal, political, economic and social reasons which justify this. As regards the technical and legal reasons, I have to tell you that we intend to adopt a procedure in accordance with the general rule in the legislative procedure in Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u4	The reform we propose also seeks consistency between the adoption of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt with the parliamentary handling of the General Budgets of the State. With this, the Congress of Deputies regains the power to impose its criterion to which the High Chamber manifests in case of disagreement, a faculty recognized in the Spanish Constitution in accordance with article 90.2, a faculty that the Lower Chamber, the Congress, should never have lost for the setting of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt, granting the Senate a veto capacity that cannot be lifted by the Congress, and which responds to a model of perfect bicameralism that does not correspond to the one established by the Spanish Constitution. The aim is therefore to establish a procedure that is fully consistent with the model legislative procedure established by the Constitution itself. The Constitutional Court, in its Judgment 97/2002, has already highlighted the different positions of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate in the ordinary legislative procedure. However, with the current wording of the article in question they were placed in the same position, with the possibility of a possible parliamentary political blockade appearing. No doubt the former Finance Minister of the People's Party wanted to assert his absolute majority in the Senate in order to ensure in a partisan way to maintain the decision-making capacity before an increasingly fragmented Lower House, and did so, ladies and gentlemen, in a twisting way, incorporating an exception to the legislative procedure not covered by the Spanish Constitution, did so without dialogue, did so unilaterally, imposing it, without consensus, and cutting off the Congress of Deputies one of the powers legitimately granted by the Spanish Constitution in the procedure for the adoption of legislation, recognized, as I said before, in article 90.2. And now we are faced with the following situation: the objectives of budgetary stability and the objectives of public debt proposed by the Government are those agreed with the European Commission, are those approved by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, where the governments of the autonomous communities are represented, and are those approved by the National Commission of Local Administration. If these are finally approved by Congress, with the broad agreement of the majority of the different political formations with parliamentary representation, the reality is that the Senate could with its veto or refusal prevent their approval, and therefore - and here comes the important thing - prevent the implementation of the agreements reached with the various institutions for the elaboration of their corresponding budgets. The People's Party in the Congress of Deputies on 27 July already told us that it was not going to approve the new path proposed by the Government, and we do not know that it will change its mind. It is therefore to be assumed that the Senate will reject it. And if the Senate vetoes or rejects it without the possibility of Congress lifting it, it would be giving a possible situation of parliamentary blockade totally rejectable no longer only from a technical-legal point of view, but also from a political point of view. Because if the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt are not approved, the budgets cannot be drawn up with these objectives, as they are the basis of the budgets, as indicated in Article 15.7 of Law 2/2012. Here is what we really do, Your Honor, to allow the Government to draw up budgets for 2019 that incorporate a just economic and social agenda, and to allow the various public administrations to accommodate the preparation of their budgets to the new objectives set. To this end, it is essential to adopt a new path of budgetary stability. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are questioning the way in which the path of stability is adopted, but what it is also important for, therefore, it indicates economic and social reasons for the consideration of this initiative. It is necessary to prevent it from blocking the adoption of a new deficit path already proposed, which is based on realistic, credible and responsible data with the fulfilment of Spain's international obligations, and which is also reasonable because we cannot ask for more structural adjustment than Europe demands, as the current path calls for. It is urgent to update the path of stability in order to process the General Budgets of the State on the basis of new objectives, so that budgetary stability, consolidation of public accounts and consolidation of the welfare state can be combined; ladies and gentlemen, consolidation of the welfare state, because if the Senate exercised the veto or rejection without the possibility of lifting it, first, it would be limiting the competence of the Government recognized in article 134 of the Spanish Constitution of the elaboration of the General Budgets of the State, since it would be preventing the commencement of its processing, leaving in the hands of the Senate the power to decide on the budgetary process, in fact some prestigious author, such as Thomas de la Quadra-Salcedo, has even gone a little further by questioning the constitutionality of the very existence of a law such as the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, while not respecting the constitutionally recognized competences of the Government of the preparation of the budget, and second, it would be limiting the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities and local bodies, which are also limited in the elaboration of their budgets. If the objectives are not approved in the General Courts, despite the fact that the new objectives are already agreed and shared in their respective fields, they cannot apply them to their budgetary processes and, Your Honor, they have done so twice. So what is the point of this rule? None. And why doesn't it make sense? First, because the involvement of the autonomous communities in defining the objectives is guaranteed by their participation in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and not in the Senate, as we argued in the initiative itself. And secondly, because when we talk about the financial situation of the autonomous communities we are talking about being able to finance most of the welfare state, we are talking about being able to finance education, being able to finance health and social care. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about people, we are talking about being able to have more resources to strengthen these services. If the Spanish Government has agreed with Europe a greater margin in the stability objectives for the autonomous communities, why do they not have to be approved? Why will they have to stop having the EUR 25 billion more than this margin granted to them by Europe and the government? Ladies and gentlemen, it is irrational and cannot be assumed that an additional EUR 25 billion will not be available to the Autonomous Communities when it is claimed by a majority. It is not reasonable not to have an additional 6 billion for the whole state when they are really needed, ladies. The current path of stability, with the information we have, is already unreal, and therefore unreasonable. Why are we going to demand more effort from the communities than what Europe demands in the coming years, which we already know will be impossible for them to take on? By the way, the Spanish right continues with its mantra that we want more deficit and more debt. In each of their interventions they repeat it, but no longer repeat it is true. We do not propose as a target any more deficit or debt for 2019 compared to 2018. What we intend with the new objectives is to highlight a reality that already existed, but that the previous Government persistently kept hidden, and that the objectives they set were unrealizable. For all that has been said, and as a corollary, through this proposal for a law, ladies and gentlemen, what we seek is, first of all, to correct a situation of eventual blockade, already warned by the Council of State in its 2012 opinion, which can prevent the adoption of the new path of stability proposed by the Government. Secondly, we intend to reverse the abuse of this House by the People's Party Government. Thirdly, we intend to undo the possible blockade that can occur to the decisions of a legitimate, democratically elected Government, which takes them according to its constitutionally assigned powers. And fourth, we want the procedure for approving the objectives of budgetary stability and the objectives of public debt to be agile and consistent with the model of legislative procedure set out in our Constitution, in which Congress prevails over the Senate in the event of a discrepancy. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I finish as I started. As we have argued, the initiative we are presenting today is justified from a technical, legal and political point of view, but there are also reasons of an economic and social nature which make clear not only the consideration of this initiative, but also that it could be adopted on a single reading, as we ask the Bureau of this House. Don't forget that we are experiencing extraordinarily complex moments. The challenges facing society require institutions that are agile, concerned and busy in dealing with them, concerned and busy in meeting people's needs. What we are proposing today with this initiative is a coherent and responsible change in constitutional procedure that makes this possible. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to take this bill into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. New Canarias will support the consideration of this proposal for organic law for reasons that we believe to be constitutional and democratic. It is not acceptable for the Senate to have pre-eminence over this House in deciding such projects; and from the government's point of view because governments have the responsibility and the right to draw up budgets. Another thing is whether or not they go beyond the procedure in this House, so that we feel absolutely in line with all the needs of today this bill. It must also be said that we believe that it is time to resolve a matter of enormous importance, which has denounced the FEMP in Spain, chaired by Mr Abel Caballero, and which we have denounced from New Canarias. It is not possible that the autonomous communities, local corporations, deputies and lobbyists, who have fulfilled, who have surplus, who have fulfilled deficit targets, those of debt and have fulfilled payment to suppliers, will find a fortune in the banks with the needs they have to meet. We are going to make an amendment to this bill at the time, in this direction, because we believe that it is not reasonable that of the EUR 1 billion that currently exists in the Canary Islands, not to mention the autonomous community, you see, the financing of sustainable investments has accounted for 2.7% of that amount. That is not enough and it needs to be corrected. This will support New Canarias and make an amendment in the subsequent process, if this stage is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u7	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Mrs Blanquer, what cannot happen is that the new deficit path is great, with an additional 25 billion, for all the autonomous communities except for the Canary Islands, because it has surplus. [[Denials by Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz]] Yes, ma'am, yes, ma'am, and what cannot happen is that the surplus of the Canary Islands, a community that has fulfilled, is used to compensate for the deficit of non-compliance. And especially with the speech that you have made, and that I share, I love your speech, but the only thing that Canaries asks is that this surplus is devoted to improving the financing of essential services in the community: health, education, social services. And if we approve and do not allow the surplus to be invested in essential services, we have no advantage in the new deficit path. We've had the fight over sustainable investments. The problem of the Canary Islands is not sustainable investment. The problem of municipalities and communities such as ours is the financing of essential services, when moreover the socialist government - which we agree with - begins to make agreements in the Council of Ministers at the expense of the budgets of the communities, and without changing the financing system. You had the same speech when you were in opposition as I now have here. The administrations that have complied must be able to invest their surplus in essential services, and above all in social services the municipalities, and in education, health and dependency the autonomous communities. We're going to support this, but we're going to set that rule. It is good enough that the 600 million surpluses of the Canary Islands are dedicated to compensating for the deficit of Valencia, Catalonia, of what and of how many. The adjustments are not made by the governments. Adjustments have been made by the citizens, the communities they have fulfilled and the citizens of those communities. That is why we are going to support it, but we are going to amend it in the matter I have told you. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u9	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the same group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Almost two years ago, on behalf of the Forum, I supported the reform of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which is now intended to take a radical turn with this proposal signed by one of the government's parliamentary partners. If this is taken forward, it would give us back legislative instruments that ended up dragging all Spaniards into a devastating crisis, with millions of people increasing unemployment figures, and also to a constitutional reform that I voted against, a result of the systematic violation of the laws and the colossal economic failure of the Socialist Party government, then presided over by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. This afternoon it is intended to return to the marches ignoring the mandates of Chapter III of the Constitution, which speak of the obligation of the public authorities to promote social and economic progress, stressing that it is done within the framework of economic stability. Today, this legislative reform seeks to lay the foundations for Spain to go back to times of uncertainty, instability and a rampant crisis. To this setback that ratifies the irresponsible derives from the Government, assisted by its partners, is added among other aspects the attack on the legislative and control powers that the Senate has, Chamber that together with the Congress of Deputies is depositary of national sovereignty, to which they want to subtract their legitimate functions in a dangerous operation to change the rules of the democratic parliamentary game to convenience. Socialists ultimately weaken Parliament's control function when they are in the government, but when they are in the opposition they claim otherwise. This is another sign of Pedro Sánchez's PSOE sense of state. The terms of this bill imply a democratic involution that we denounce in this rostrum and that I will reject with my vote. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u11	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u12	Thank you, Madam President. We have listened carefully to the reasons for this change in the law, we have studied the arguments of the initiative, and the truth is that they do not convince us, ladies and gentlemen. The text says that in order to comply with the commitments made by Spain, this legislative amendment is required, when the commitments have so far been fulfilled without the need for this amendment. He says that with this change we will give due importance to each constitutional body created by our Constitution, but to do so we deliberately diminish the legislative role of the Senate. Nor is it true that the current law, as the text says, imposes a legislative procedure that does not respect the position attributed by the Constitution to Congress and the Senate. That's as much as saying he'll do the same now. We will also impose it with this change. That the legislator now eliminates this parity between Chambers when it comes to legislation does not mean that what now exists is a normative anomaly; it is equally legitimate. The truth is that the doctrinal debates that talk about how to enhance the Senate go right in the opposite direction of what you are doing right now. We are also convinced that if the majority were another in the Senate, they would not squander and would not support their own arguments. The end does not justify the means. The vote on stability by both Houses for us is a guarantee that the general framework can be adopted with great consensus. Better that than the cost that we will have to bear all the Spaniards for the ninety-two seats that are missing at the eighty-four, especially, ladies and gentlemen, if, as they already announce, after the approval of this change, what comes is an irresponsible increase in public spending or an undesirable rise in taxes at the time of greatest historical collection in many years. Therefore we will not give that facility to your group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u13	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u14	Pick it up on. Thank you very much, President. Euskal Herria Bildu continues to consider it necessary to repeal the Budget Stability Act as it implies giving absolute priority in budgetary policy to the payment of public debt, putting it ahead of social needs and public policies aimed at responding to them. The decision, first of all, to change article 135 of the Constitution, by strengthening the commitment to austerity with the adoption of the Stability Act, has, during these years, entailed putting the necessary resources at serious risk for the maintenance of quality education policies, the universality of health, the dignity of pensions and a long and so on. So count on us for a derogation, not for cosmetic reforms. However, just as we are deeply critical of the content of the law we are also critical of its processing. The urgent procedure for the express reform of the Constitution was completely unacceptable, and it was also an attempt, in this case by the PP, to obtain a higher guarantee of approval than the bodies at the polls allowed it to establish that the Senate would have the last word on budgetary stability, i.e. the right to veto. Ultimately, it is what he sought: to ensure absolute control, establishing, as the proposed law says, a mechanism for approval outside the ordinary functioning. And now the very people who wanted to cheat pretend to cheat by saying that they are trying to usurp the Senate's commission, something radically false, with the surprise support of those who have been demanding Senate reform for not being representative of the sense of citizenship. That said, I conclude by reiterating that we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u16	Thank you, Madam President. If there is any law that represents the breakdown of the social contract in this country, if there is a law that explains and represents all political changes in this country, it is precisely this law. This law not only pre-empted private interests to the public, it not only pre-empted banks to rescue people, but also altered the normal functioning of the democratic institutions of this country, giving the Senate a position that does not belong to it. And here's the thing. This PL is intended, in line with the political change we are initiating, to restore democratic normality to this country, to order and give meaning to the chaos inherited from the People's Party. Surely, both PP and Citizens, when they come here to argue they will say that this PL is an outrage to democracy, and I would like to tell you that when you come up to this rostrum you remember what you have done in Europe, standing beside the fascism of Viktor Orbán. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, in a recent interview the President of the Government forgot about Compromis. Maybe it's a lapsus. Do not force us too to have a lapse, because we agree on one issue: this legislature must begin to end economic inequalities. Well, that means solving the case and the Valencian problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u18	Thank you very much. One more week I remind you that there are political prisoners and another week I must remind you that the fragility of the Spanish judicial institutions has been demonstrated since European justice. [[applause]] In any case, we will vote in favour. I do not see Mrs Blanquer now, but we will vote in favour. The incomprehensible thing is that this initiative did not come before, because, of course, we already knew what the situation was and we warned him. However, I must also say one thing to the majority group, especially to the Government. That we are voting in favour of this initiative does not mean that we are going to vote in favour of any proposal for deficit targets and spending ceilings they bring. They know that we have an outstanding issue, which is the flexibility of the rule of spending on municipalities. This is a priority issue, and we are going to condition our vote in this regard. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u20	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the proposed Organic Law on Reform of Organic Law 2/2012, on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, a modification that, let us not be fooled, is now presented by the difficulty or, rather, by the impossibility of approving the deficit targets presented by the Government in view of the veto capacity that the Senate has today. It should be remembered that during the process of this Stability Act in 2012 the PP kept an ace in the sleeve, which was the amendment of section 15.6, leaving the final approval of the deficit targets or the deficit path in the hands of the Senate, that is, of a House whose function has normally been of second reading and without veto capacity, far from being a House of Territorial Representation. In July, the Government tried to approve the deficit targets and when faced with this situation, we understood that it had two alternatives: either it agreed with the PP not to face the veto in the Senate, since in this House it had a majority, or it had to introduce a reform of the law to unlock the above veto. In failing to achieve the first thing, it is now when this second option arises to return to the drafting of the 2007 Stability Act and, therefore, to put forward the same procedure as exists for any other law. In short, what is at stake is to put an end to the decisive position of the Senate in order to be able to advance the deficit target and, therefore, to present more expansive budgets than those of 2018, as this new PP has made it clear that it will use its majority in the Senate to veto this path. That is so, as a fundamental reason for not supporting it to guarantee economic stability in order to avoid the bankruptcy of the country when, from the PP, they know, of course, that the proposed path is more in line with economic reality, as we have been saying by different political groups, but also, has been said by the AIReF. Although we agree with this amendment, it must be acknowledged that the whole procedure on this subject has been somewhat rocky, and it seems that it has suffered from a certain lack of coordination or negotiation with other political groups. In July, the minister came to tell us that she would present the same path of stability within a month and ruled out an amendment to the Budget Stability Act to prevent the Senate from having veto power. In this regard, we believe that contradictions and corrections cannot and should not be the mark of identity of a Government, and that is also a wise thing to rectify. As our spokesman, Mr Esteban, said, the reform of the Budget Stability Act is legal, but aesthetically the truth is that it does not look very good. On the other hand, it must be said that, in view of the limitations of European governance, of the still difficult context and of the need for economic stability - a stability which, by the way, was also demanded by the former government led by the People's Group - one cannot or should not act out of spite or revenge, but, in our view, for economic reasons; moreover, similar reasons which were, in their day, expressed by the People's Group when it was in the Government, and which also set more flexible objectives for all administrations. On the basis of this, I would ask for a responsibility from the other political groups, a responsibility that today seems to be non-existent not only in Congress, but also in the Senate; this House in which a majority would block a path of the deficit more expansive than that promoted by the previous Executive. As I said in my speech in July, the debate on the spending ceiling is a macro-economic debate and what we really care about is the implementation of budget figures because that is where we will see the priorities and bets of the executive. It is therefore necessary to break with this veto of the Senate, which today prevents this debate, among other reasons, because we believe that a party has not taken the result of a motion of censure; and it seems that this veto is justified, rather than for reasons, to guarantee economic stability in order to avoid the bankruptcy of a country, such as those made by the People's Group. With regard to the single urgency and reading procedure, it must be said that the need for budgets justifies this, but it must also be remembered that in 2016 the PP, PSOE and Citizens pushed for a change in the Budget Stability Act in an urgent way to enable the then-in-office Government to modify the deficit targets, so this procedure is perfectly plausible. On the other hand, and since we are talking about the amendment of the Budget Stability Act, we also understand that at some point we would have to address another amendment of the Act, which we have so many times claimed all the political groups - which have also done some today - such as the expenditure rule, which enjoins different administrations in their policies. In short, this group will vote in favour of this proposed organic law for all of the above and, in particular, because it agrees to eliminate the exceptionality that exists around the rules related to the budget ceiling and deficit targets, so that the veto of the Senate is avoided and that these rules are also governed by the general regime that is applied in the Courts to approve the laws where the Senate would act as a second reading chamber. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u21	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Good afternoon, Minister. In the debate last July we abstained in the proposal on the expenditure ceiling basically for two reasons. The first, and very important, is that even if Congress had approved such a proposal, the Senate would have impeded such approval by the absolute majority of the PP because of the reform of Article 15(6) approved by the People's Party Government in 2012. We told him before and during the debate: either the Budget Stability Act was being reformed or it made no sense not only to vote in favour, but to start negotiations on it. We therefore welcome its rectification and will vote in favour of this proposal for an organic law amending Law 2/2012 of 27 April. Secondly, we abstained because we understood that we had to sit with the Government to address the objectives of budgetary stability and deficit that must be attributed to the various public administrations. In recent years, during the PP government, deficit targets have been unfairly distributed to autonomous communities and, in particular, to Catalonia; communities that have had to make huge efforts to meet deficit targets. In the case of the Generalitat, for example, with a deficit of 2.8 in 2015, it ended last year with 0.56, thus fulfilling the objective. We believe, therefore, that we must give the autonomous communities and the municipalities space so that they can make more expansive budgets to strengthen the welfare state, drastically reduced in recent years with the ultra-liberal policies of cuts by the People's Party. The working and middle classes of this country have borne the full weight of the crisis. It is time for administrations to help those most in need out of the well through social policies. Our formation, Esquerra Republicana, will also emphasize the role that the municipalities have played during the harsh years of crisis. The latter have endured more than anyone the imposition of extreme austerity policies, which have led not only to a reduction in expenditure, but also to an increase in tax revenues and, in particular, in property tax, the IBI, with various measures taken by the PP Government. The combination of reduced spending and increased regressive fiscal pressure leads to an increase in inequalities in our towns and cities, while municipalities are forced to accumulate billions of euros in surplus. We always say that the local government is the closest to the citizenry, and that this is why the municipalities are the first to respond to the needs of their neighbours in sensitive areas such as housing, poverty, energy, the promotion of occupation, etc. It is impossible to explain to our neighbours that, despite having surpluses, we cannot meet their needs because a state law does not allow it. [[Applauds]] In recent years, in Congress, we have discussed numerous proposals aimed at easing budgetary restrictions affecting municipalities. Many of these proposals were also approved with the support of your party, minister. We therefore believe that they should be sensitive to these demands and take advantage of the processing of this organic law to also modify certain aspects of the spending rule. Esquerra Republicana has a clearly municipalist vocation and will continue to be so, because everything begins in the vicinity of towns and cities. That is why we are forced once again to demand that the spending rule, which continues to suffocate all municipalities, also those governed by the PSOE, be changed. The data are conclusive when we see that in 2017 the local government as a whole obtained a surplus of €68 billion, and that this constant has been repeated over the last five years, providing the state with an annual surplus equivalent to 0.6% of GDP, i.e. about 10ths of surplus that allows it to incur a greater deficit at the expense of the municipalities. All this must be added to the constant reduction of the debt of local corporations, about 10% annually, with a forecast for this year equivalent to 2.2% of GDP. The AIReF itself acknowledges that this debt reduction, combined with structural surpluses, has led to a blocking of the resources of the municipalities, which accumulate in bank deposits in view of the impossibility of increasing expenditure. Once again we point out that it is very difficult to explain to citizens that our municipalities have EUR 24 billion blocked in bank deposits, rather than responding to the needs of our towns and cities, and all because there is a state law that continues to prioritize the interest of the banks in the general interest. That is why I am announcing to you that during the process of the law we are going to present, for example, an amendment to the effect that local corporations, which in the previous year present a situation of balance or budgetary surplus, which at the same time meet the objectives of financial sustainability and present a remnant of positive treasury, may incur additional expenses above the expenditure rule limit, provided that they are not structural in nature, leaving the increase in expenditure limited to the very fulfilment of budgetary stability. I hope, Minister, that we will have meeting places to channel all these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u23	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u24	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, Mrs Blanquer, the Socialist Group is bringing forward a bill to reform the Budget Stability Act. It's surprising because a couple of months ago, in July, you brought a spending ceiling that didn't exceed the majority enough. I have the impression that since you do not have a sufficient majority, because the reality is that you have eighty-four Members who are less than a quarter of the total number of Members of this House, you have decided that the only way to have a budget is by changing the rules laid down in the Budget Stability Act that protects us all from events like yours. [[Applauds]] They have also tried to steal the democratic debate, to prevent parliamentary groups like mine from making amendments to that law claiming that it was also by one reading. They have to accept once they have no majority. Don't try to load the institutions and procedures, they're just too loose. Nor did they have it in this Congress; do not try to eliminate the democratic procedure that the Senate allows. It's a shame you don't have a majority there, but the reality is that, and it's not worth changing the rules when you don't have a majority. If they don't like the majority they have, what they can do is very simple: call elections to have a wider majority. [[Applauds]] I don't like the Senate either; I'd like to reform it or maybe eliminate it, but that's something that has to be agreed. You can't change the rule as you like when you don't have a majority to pass a budget. I understand that Mr Sánchez is very aware that, since there has not been a single reform or will be able to pass a single sensible economic reform in this country, because he has a strange majority that it is clear that he will never be able to pass any sensible reform - not even the budget - he has to skip the rules and steal the democratic debate in this House. We do not agree to skip the rules and steal the democratic debate. The problem goes beyond that. We were saying this recently in another debate: you have been a hundred days and have not done a single reform. I still have no idea what your educational project is and we have the highest school failure rates in Europe. I have no idea what they intend to do with the most abnormal labour market in Europe, with a record of time and unemployment - not a single idea to change what was before -. They do not have a single proposal to reform and really become an innovative country, Europe's capital on these issues. They don't have a single proposal to reform training when we have the fourth technological revolution in front of us and some demented training bars in Spain that don't serve to reintegrate workers. They have no modernizing proposals, they are a party that is enduring and trying to extend, with tricks and weaves like this, their life within this legislature in order to achieve absolutely nothing. What you have achieved - I have to admit I don't know whether you or Mr. Churches, which I don't see you sitting here now - is to make the proposal for one of the biggest tax hikes we know in all these years. They've proposed up to seven tax increases. - Let me read it. They say they're going to raise the actual corporate tax rate to 15% to make sure that it's paid at 15%, they're going to put a tax on technology, they said they're going to make a tax on the bank, they said they're going to apply a Tobin tax to financial transactions, they said they're going to put a surcharge on the diesel, they said they're going to make a plastic tax, they said they're going to bring up estates and assets, they said they're going to raise social security contributions, they said they're going to unload the contribution bases, and besides - I'm sorry there were ten, not seven - they're going to raise the IRPF to high income. Well, look, stop fooling people with high incomes; this, if four numbers are made, affects more than 20 million people in this country. These tax increases, obviously including increases in diesel levies and so on, affect more than 20 million people. Stop fooling people, Minister. They are missing a very important opportunity, because it is precisely in the good part of the cycle where structural reforms have to be made so that it does not happen to us as last time happened, because if not reforms in good times, then you find that you have to cut massively in bad times. If what you do is waste in good times, then you have to make massive cuts in bad times. I think it's great that they're Keynesians, but they're Keynesians on both sides of the cycle. Save, make reforms, try to be productive, do not try to endure at all costs a government that is clearly unworkable. Budgetary stability is very important; it is in part what allows us to be European, it is what allows us to be in a club and what allows us to finance at a very low debt cost, as we are getting now. Don't dynamicate it with events like this. Another thing you might think about is trying to save, not just spending more. We have obtained with the People's Party that in point 2 of the agreement there would be an expending review - I see Mr Montoro here - in which they undertook to make a review of integral public expenditure. Why aren't they more ambitious in reducing public spending, in spending better and not just more, which is all they can do? Of course, they know how to do this, among other things, because they have given the Ministry of Finance to Mr. Iglesias, but try to think of other alternatives. I assure you that there are alternatives; we have spent two budgets in this House, two, and we have managed to lower taxes, we have managed to extend paternity leave, we have achieved a wage supplement that will benefit half a million young people, we have achieved very ambitious social policies and, moreover, we have managed to meet the deficit and the objective; we do not have to cheat, we only have to make good public policies. Try to learn a bit from what we have tried to do in this very House with the same majorities. In short, and with this I conclude, accept once and for all that this Government is unable to make reforms and allow for a democratic choice so that we can choose the others. Stop strangling economic growth with tax increases, stop giving shows and shows, do some economic reform and, above all, respect the democratic procedures of this House, which deserves respect. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u25	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u26	Good afternoon, President. Comrade Blanquer, before the summer we had already talked in this very House about why it was absolutely necessary to change the regulatory framework in which we are currently moving. We were then talking about the consequences of fateful 135, a constitutional reform that, as you know, we have described as one of the blackest moments of democracy. We will not tire of insisting on the infamy that involved that episode. The supposed champions of the Constitution of 78 were charged in one night with all the components of the social state that were embodied in that Constitution; the literality never changed, the materiality was completely destroyed. A year later, Mr Montoro arrived here today - good afternoon, Mr Montoro - and not content with the despotic gesture of having legislated against his people, a year later he dared to modify himself on his own - with some minions, yes, but he on his own - the Spanish bicameralism as defined by the constitutional text. As you know, in the organic development of the new 135 - the law we are discussing here today - Mr Montoro smoked all the articles that make up Spanish parliamentarianism as an asymmetric bicameralism. And it is that, while the Constitution only contains two exceptional moments in which the Senate has veto power, i.e. the implementation of the 155 or the constitutional reforms, Mr Montoro decided on something else organic, and stayed so wide. I'm just going to stop for a little while to talk about the Senate. We have already said this a couple of months ago in the first debate on the ceiling, but certainly the blatantly conservative bias that this House has makes it hardly legitimate, not to say openly illegitimate, since it violates the principle of democratic proportionality and, to the extent that it violates that principle, it deviates and becomes an antagonism of democracy. Well, this has allowed, as you know, a minority in votes to become a majority in the Senate, which confers on Spanish democracy that title of low cost which Mr Tardà has on so many occasions insisted here in this very rostrum. In addition, Mr Montoro mutilated the budgetary initiative capacity conferred exclusively by the Spanish Constitution in its Article 134, as I think Mrs Blanquer reminded us earlier. Of course, Mr. Montoro at the time, that was the same thing. It was those times when the PP patrimonized institutions like Cristóbal for his home. But, well, we now come to this point and face this process with the proposal that we had already made to the Government with the need to change that normative framework in which we move, in that anomaly. This must enable us to clear the gap in the preparation of general state budgets and, above all, it must allow us to go beyond the 1.3% deficit barrier which Mr Montoro then established and thus avoid, as he said, the blockage of a single party, the blockade of a minority which has been converted into a majority. However, the right-wings in this country, which do not have the majority of this plenary, promise to make use of their majority at the table of Congress, perhaps delaying, who knows, in every possible way their processing and surely coming to torpedo it, if they could, until the sinking, in such a way that the budgets are not approved. This would mean removing the sovereign represented here from the decision which, according to Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, corresponds exclusively to this plenary session. This would raise parliamentary filibusterism, which we have already seen expressed in this House, to its highest category. Well, in their desire to hinder the work of a government, some say, supported by populists and independenceists, it turns out that they are now compromising the very governability of the state, and frankly of the People's Party, we were not going to expect too much. We all know that this childish attitude that the toy has taken away causes them to withdraw to a corner and pretend that no one can move forward because they are no longer the chiefs of the tribe. As I say, it's not going to stop being expected. In the case of Citizens if I am more surprised and I would say that the situation is at least contradictory. You, Members of Parliament and Members of the People's Party, know that the PP's play in the Senate is simply infamous, you know that. And you know that it is based on an institution that you have criticized as much as we have for your serious lack of legitimacy. They know in addition to the urgency of the procedure to square budgets and know that this is the only mechanism to get rid of atavism size. But oh, my God! this implies joining the anti-Spain and, of course, between being the vanguard of change or guarantor of the unique destiny in the universal, it would be said that you have chosen the second. Therefore, once we have passed today's procedure, I hope that we will have difficulty in moving forward with this law. That does not, however, exempt the Government from having to govern, and that must be absolutely clear. First, because there is a manifest responsibility, as already mentioned, in article 134 and, in this regard, the Government will have to comply with and submit to these Courts a draft. Moreover, and here I am going to stop a little too, minister, you yourselves know, as we know and as everyone knows, that keeping the deficit in 2019 at 1.3 is simply suicidal, suicidal for the nation, and behind for any government that wants to sustain such a measure. You know perfectly well the economic deceleration profile you're making up. We haven't come out of a crisis and there are clouds again. The external sector is already talking about a fall of 6 points in valuation and 8 points in volume over the estimates set for this year. This means that the net contribution from the sector will remain at approximately zero. There is a drop in imports in Italy and the United Kingdom, there has been turbulence in Argentina and Turkey, etc. On the other hand, domestic demand continues to be characterized by an already systematic and prolonged atony over time, and this has to do - you also know - with the low wages and the savings and consumption capacity of Spanish families which, as you know, is basically exhausted. Therefore, an expansive fiscal policy is needed now more than ever, and today more than ever the state must become involved in economic activity not only to generate confidence and certainty in economic agents, but above all among citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, although it has been a decade since the beginning of the crisis, we all have clear and fresh in the retina - some have it fresh in the stomach - how the turbulence arrived and how the political class then, faced with the trance of having to choose between its people or its creditors, chose the second. In this decision we have it very clear. I now ask the Government: Do you also have that clear? It would be nice to have an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u27	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u28	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A simple, clear and direct question to the signatories of the bill: would we be here today debating this proposal if the People's Party had not obtained an absolute majority in the Senate from the Spaniards? I tell you the answer: No. It's sad, but it is. When we almost forty years ago gave ourselves the Spanish Constitution, some are closer to Maduro's tricks in Venezuela to end the National Assembly than to respect the rules of the game that we gave each other here in Spain. This is a bill designed exclusively for a specific purpose, which is to curtail the functions of the Senate. They hide their true goals from citizens and they do so with a collection of lies and half truths that we're going to put on the table. They're talking Senate vetoes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate has no right of veto. The organic law provides for it to be an agreement of the General Courts; therefore, of the two chambers, Congress and Senate. Stop talking about vetoes and stop deceiving citizens. [[Applauds]] It is this proposal of law that part addicted of origin, written by PSOE and Podemos, that seek only an apology or an excuse - only one - to waste and to return Spain to the times of Zapatero in which he was leader in deficit and in destruction of employment. We know the outcome of their policies. We know the end of the story. We know how he has gone to Spain every time his measures have been implemented here: deficit, debt, unemployment and waste; and all this with a result for all Spaniards: tax increase. Anything goes for that ultimate goal, which is to raise taxes. They don't care what big national and international gurus say. They don't care if there's a broad consensus that it's not the time to raise taxes, but they will. The Spaniards already know. It will cost you more to fill the tank of your diesel vehicle and will also charge you other direct and indirect taxes of all kinds. The rise in taxes that is coming to us is nothing more than the result of what you are looking for here today: to adopt a measure that harms Spain. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presents us here with its far-left partners and with those who want to break Spain, a proposal for a law that represents an amendment to themselves; firstly, because it was with a socialist government that Article 135 of our Constitution was reformed and, secondly, because some of the signatories of this proposal today voted in favour of the 2012 Act that they want to reform today. Tell me, Mrs. Blanquer, whether or not there was an agreement. In their argument they repeat the mantra that we are faced with a normative abnormality by the obligation introduced by section 15.6, which gives the same capacity to reject deficit to Congress and the Senate. I could cite here numerous examples and cases in which the Senate and Congress are equated, mainly in territorial aspects, because we must not forget that our Constitution says in its article 69 that the Senate is the House of Territorial Representation. Tell Mrs. Lastra this is a Constitution. [[Shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] It is appropriate to read it, in addition to promising it, or at least to be clear about the fundamental aspects it contains. To say that popular sovereignty rests with Congress is to disrespect the Senate, to disrespect all Spaniards and, above all, to disrespect itself. He told them that sometimes the Senate even has primacy over Congress, as it is in those measures to force the autonomous communities to comply with their constitutional obligations. Remember 155? Have you forgotten? If the Senate is a true House of Territorial Representation, is it democratic, as its spokesman, the Socialist spokesman, also said? Do you think it's at least ethical? If the Senate is the House of Territorial Representation, why is it being robbed of having the capacity to decide on issues directly affecting communities, such as debt and deficit targets? If the Senate is the Territorial House in which even all regional parliaments appoint autonomous senators, why is it that the Senate is being removed from its voice in this matter that affects them so much? Only because the People's Party won a majority there? Does it seem to you to be an argument of weight and consistency, and above all democratic? [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party is presenting itself here with a bill prepared to buy wills to stay in Moncloa, to give its partners what they ask without asking to stay in the government without having won the elections yet, with the worst result of their history. The Socialist Party forgets what happened the last time it applied its prescriptions and repealed the 2001 Stability Act. You want me to remind him? Spain deficit in 2009, 11.2%; Spain deficit in 2010, 9.3%; Spain deficit in 2011, 9.4%; Spain deficit in 2012, 10.6%. This is the effect of their policies. The Spaniards know it because they've lived it, the Spaniards know it because they've already heard their lies. I remember. Pedro Solbes in 2008 - abro quotes -: the Spanish economy maintains robust growth, higher than the rest of the European economies. I close quotes. Do you remember what came next? Do you remember how they left Spain and how they left the Spaniards? Nadia Calviño this week - I open quotes; quotes is what is used in front of a textual quote if you do not want to appropriate the content and accuse it of plagiarism - : growth will remain robust in the coming months. [[applause]] If there's a time when it's time to raise taxes, it's now. Again a robust growth that is to start shaking, because in a row they give a tax haven to the Spaniards. The Spaniards already know what that robust growth was like that announced by Solbes, which ended weeks later in the worst crisis for Spain in recent decades. We hope that the Government, which is only right when it rectifys, will listen to us, that it will listen to economic experts, that it will listen to society, that it will react. It's time to lower taxes, not raise them. The way to continue generating employment is by lowering taxes. These are the recipes that have put Spain to grow above the European average. These recipes have generated more than two million jobs and increased collection. With the others, with yours, with the fiscal hacks, with lifting sidewalks, with increasing deficit and debt, we already know where you left the country. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a bill that brings us in the forms to dictatorial and undemocratic regimes, that encloses the capacity of our General Courts and that is only designed, as the spokesman for the PSOE said, to draw the Senate. Today Spain loses democratic quality, but above all we lose the Spaniards, we lose all: more deficit, more debt, more unemployment, more waste. That's always behind measures like these, which involve tax hikes. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a bill that puts Spain in the face of the worst of its recent past, which brings Spain closer to drastic and bloody tax increases and limits our democracy because it eliminates the powers of the Senate. John Kennedy said those who madly sought power riding a tiger's loins ended up inside him. Lords of the PSOE, you will end up inside the tiger, you will be devoured by populism and independence. Back to common sense, please. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u29	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) may, in common, in the Sea, of Habitational Emergence in Vulnerable Families in the Habitational Environment and Energy Poverty. [[File number 122/00234]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u30	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, of housing emergency in vulnerable families in the housing field and of energy poverty. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u31	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to begin this intervention by greeting the groups who are accompanying us in this debate, the Platform for Mortgage Affected, the Alliance against Energy Poverty and the tenant unions; as so many and so many times over the last ten years, today again the protagonist is yours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Today we have the possibility to amend an error that, although it originated in previous years, in 2013 it had an important symbolic representation right here in Congress; a moment that many remember as a further demonstration of the isolation and disconnection of this House from a reality, which was the one that lived, the one that felt and, ultimately, the one that shared a great majority of the population. We have the opportunity to say that, unlike then, today this institution listens and assumes the work and demands of people who have practically without any resources for years doing what the institutions did not do, defending the right to housing. Because today, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing in this consideration a proposal for a law that has not been drafted by any parliamentary group, nor by any law firm hired by those financial and real estate lobbies, which, with some exceptions, seem to have dictated the housing policy of this country for forty years. Today my parliamentary group, Unite Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, we are extremely proud to bring to this plenary a bill worked by the people who have been literally putting their bodies to defend their neighbours, their families, unknown people from an economic and legislative framework that overprotects the strongest while trampling on the most basic rights. And as I said at the beginning of the intervention, we also have the opportunity to repair the injustice committed in 2013, when, thanks to more than 1.5 million signatures, the proposals that the Mortgage Affected Platform had already proposed to this Congress in order to be able to give an effective response to the housing emergency that was destroying the lives of thousands of families throughout the State. Then, five years ago, after trying to avoid the debate until the last minute, the absolute majority of the People's Party chose to completely distort the content of the proposal and ended up expelling from the rostrum some of the promoters of the initiative, among which, by the way, was the current mayor of Barcelona. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to begin to amend that mistake, and also the mistake of last March, when the government vetoed the processing of this bill, which largely reflects the proposals of that popular legislative initiative that the PP fell down in 2013. And although today, if we approve the consideration of this bill, we can begin to amend all these mistakes, what unfortunately cannot be done is to suspend the effects of these ten years of delay that we have been carrying since, after the outbreak of the real estate bubble, hundreds of thousands of families were unburdened and also left with a repayable debt. Ladies and gentlemen, because of this delay there have been more than seven hundred thousand evictions in this country since 2009; that is millions of people, millions of mistakes or, rather, millions of injustices committed that this House will no longer be able to amend. We go ten years late and adding; every day, every minute that passes until the content of this law is effective, we contribute to feed a gear where the most basic rights are relegated to a background. Every day that a new eviction occurs, every day that someone stays on the street or has to pile up with the family to live in a pension, every day that a neighbor leaves her neighborhood because the investment fund that has bought her block is going to raise the rent a hundred percent, every day that that happens we contribute not only to injustice, but we also contribute to generating that feeling of insecurity, uncertainty and fear that today precisely feeds the growth of racist and xenophobic projects throughout Europe. [[Applauds]] And it is that the housing crisis today has not ended, it simply today has new forms, new names, new actors. We have moved from the mortgage bubble to the rental bubble, but the result remains the same: people without a home; people who cannot pay market prices and who, without a public park, have no alternative; people who devote most of their salary to paying their home; people who, seeing that rent is not a stable option, are mortgaged, much to their regret, even knowing that if they suffer a eviction they will have to continue paying their debt. In 2015, mortgage executions and evictions had banks behind them. Today, after the reform of the LAU of 2013, most evictions are rent, and are the investment funds and the Socimi the new great actors who earn millions of euros speculating with a good of first necessity. The consequences for a large majority are the same, the difference is that it has been several years since everything began without this House having done anything really meaningful to avoid it. That is why the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, for this House not to propose to citizens patches, but concrete, serious and profound measures to resolve the housing crisis, guaranteeing their right, as set out in the Constitution, in the statutes of autonomy and in the rest of the domestic and international legal system. To realize the right to housing you have to want, for once, to listen to the street, you have to listen to the Platform of those affected by the Mortgage, you have to listen to the Alliance against Energy Poverty, you have to listen to the tenant unions. They all propose here today five essential things, ladies and gentlemen, because the rest, of course, is debatable in Parliament, and it is clear that the processing of this rule must be entirely consistent with respect for autonomous competences, because that concern, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT and Esquerra, is also our concern. However, there are five issues, only five, which are essential. We propose retroactive payment, a legal modification that the only thing you claim is that people who can't pay their housing don't run out of home and, in addition, carry a debt for life. There is a need for a mechanism to allow persons who have endorsed the housing of a third party not to remain also on the street; ultimately, a mechanism to put an end to an injustice that does not stop being perpetuated. And some of you and some of you are going to say to me: This cannot be done. And I'm going to answer them, "Yes, you can." We also propose a reform of the Urban Leases Act to provide security for tenants, to facilitate long contracts, to prevent the brutal price increases that the population is experiencing and to limit the terrible effects that tourism is having. And some will say to me again: This cannot be done. And I will say to them, "Yes, you can." We also propose that no eviction of habitual housing may take place without a guaranteed relocation, that large owners have an obligation to offer a social rental, that there are clear housing solutions, that help municipalities to provide such services. And you, some or some of you, are going to tell me, we can't do it. And I will say to them, "Yes, you can." We also propose to increase the public park of social housing to make it seem to the countries of our European environment, albeit a little, that families should not have to spend more than 30% of their income to pay for housing. And again they're gonna tell me it can't be done. But I will answer them: Yes you can. Finally, we propose that supplies of electricity, water and gas should be guaranteed, because a house is not just four walls without a roof and because it cannot happen again that elderly people die from cold or from accidents caused by energy poverty, as happens every winter. And, once again, many of you are going to tell me that it cannot be done. But, deputies of the PSOE, the PNV and the PDECAT and the other groups that have facilitated this new majority of political change and that some also recorded this bill, listen to what so many people say: Yes, you can; yes, you can. Today it is up to us to pass the cotton test to know what is the commitment to guaranteeing the right to housing in this House. Today we will see who has learned something or who follows exactly where the People's Party was in 2013, completely disconnected from one of the most shared demands by citizens across the country. Less than a week ago, Pedro Sánchez said in this very House that his Government was willing to promote a law guaranteeing the right to decent housing. Well, this is the housing law that citizenship is claiming. These are the measures. It is time to show that the good words are concrete, not only by saying yes to the consideration, but by committing to the content of the proposed law. The credibility of your Government is at stake, but the credibility of this House is also at stake. It is at stake to disappoint or give hope to all people who have been suffering for ten years, but who have also been fighting for ten years. But this does not end today, because today only the vote is taken into consideration. Tomorrow, if we succeed in adopting it, they will have the obligation not to distort the proposal with their amendments, they will have to avoid delaying it over and over again in order to try to make it never effective, they will have to save all parliamentary trichinellas, because - as I said before - every day counts. We have lost ten years; let us not lose another day. This law is not alone. We need more from this government. We need budgets to reverse the brutal cut in housing policies over the past few years. We need a government that withdraws once and for all the resources of unconstitutionality that are maintained over several autonomous laws, and they go especially late with Law 24/2015 of the Parliament of Catalonia, because I remind you that you have a signed commitment to the collectives that pushed it. And it is that, as we well know, we cannot forget that the competences in housing are of the autonomous communities, so - and in this we want to be very clear and very explicit - our commitment that the text resulting from the processing scrupulously respects this question is absolute. In short, today is only the first step of many and, of course, we will be vigilant not only in the parliamentary process, but also in the Housing Negotiating Bureau. We have made this very clear; we are not going to support budgets if the Government does not commit to a reform of the Urban Leases Act to limit abusive increases in rental prices. I'm done. Comrades of the PAH, of the EPA, of the tenant unions, I would tell you many things today, but perhaps they all refer to one. All these years of struggle, of fears, of uncertainties but also of small great victories have a meaning and a reason to be: they have not been in vain, but not only for the opportunity to be here today defending the law of the five of the PAH, but because it has not been in vain every day, in every assembly, in every eviction stopped, in every action, in every accompaniment, in all those communities that you have been able to generate, pamper and care for and that today help us to be more supportive, more empathetic and to feel less alone and more empowered. So today, just like ten years ago and sure as in ten, I can only tell you one thing: Yes you can. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, May-May-May-May-En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u32	Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Anticipating that I will vote against this consideration, however, I would like to appreciate the effort of the spokesman Martín González, of the Confederal Group of the United Podemos Group, and the extension of the initiative that also supports the follow-up of a crucial issue for the Spaniards, such as housing policy. However, we do not by far share the proposals and the drift of Podemos in relation to this matter to which the Spanish attach particular importance. In general terms, this initiative represents another attack on private property precisely in a matter such as housing, on which a substantial part of the economy of millions and millions of families revolves. We in the Forum are concerned and we think it is a priority, of course, to respond to the problems arising from housing policy, which are many and very varied, starting with a sector that is oversaturated in terms of the number of dwellings. In Spain there are censuses, to quote an official indicator, almost three and a half million empty dwellings. This year the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 has been launched, which was provided economically in the General Budgets of the State that were approved last May with the vote in favour of Forum and the vote against, among others, the Confederal Group of United Podemos. We share the nine major programmes of this state plan that updated the responses to the main concerns arising from a very complex issue in which there are essential and irrefutable objectives for any politician. We do not know the degree of budget execution by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, because there is a systematic lack of response to parliamentary control questions and we are therefore afraid of a blurring and new account in housing policy. We are confident that support for this consideration is not part of the new socialist housing policy. You would return to the ridiculous KeliFinder campaign of the extinct Ministry of Housing. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u34	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u35	Thank you. Go ahead with the recognition of Euskal Herria Bildu to the PAHs of the different territories, especially - of course not! - to those of Euskal Herria, for the work they are developing in favor of a basic right, as is the right to a housing. These platforms were created to correct the actions of the Government that, blind to the drama of evictions, has legislated more to content speculators and financial institutions than to guarantee the right to housing. Just look back and remember that the PP government resorted to all the housing laws of the autonomous communities that were a social advance, or that it used its absolute majority to reject an ILP presented with the endorsement of 1.5 million signatures. If it had been otherwise, the PAH would not have been seen in the need to draw up a housing emergency law for vulnerable families in the housing and energy poverty fields. This would already be approved and in force. Euskal Herria Bildu had no doubt that he should support this proposal, because we share the need for a housing policy that allows access to it without allocating more than 30% of the monthly income, either via purchase or rental, a goal that is currently far from reality for many families who also see how what was previously impossible via purchase is now also via rent, as a new rental real estate bubble is being produced that leaves thousands of people homeless. Despite numerous European judgments calling for greater protection of consumers in this area, housing policy has not changed substantially, and the international treaties ratified by Spain are still not being complied with. In order to change the housing policy clearly and notoriously in favour of citizens, we believe that action must be taken by setting limits on the price of rental housing by mobilizing empty housing, guaranteeing supplies and housing alternatives to those who have objective difficulties in coping with their payment. All of this led us to pass advanced housing laws in the Basque and Nafarroa Autonomous Community, appealed by the Spanish Government. That is why, above and beyond the differences in nuances that we may have in some areas with the proposed text, we share its need and its urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u36	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u37	Thank you, Madam President. I want to welcome all the platforms and all the people who have made it possible at the end that this law is here today. Today, at last, we are discussing one of those parliamentary initiatives that minimally dignifies politics and improves people's day-to-day lives. Today we decide whether we prioritize people or prioritize banks. We therefore welcome this initiative, which Compromís supported and which will continue to support. As I said, today we decide whether we prioritize people or whether we prioritize banks. Payment, affordable rent, guarantee the housing alternative when there is an eviction, create a social housing park, guarantee basic supplies, that is to legislate by prioritizing people and not banks. From here the real estate bubble was created, the banks that had created the same real estate bubble were rescued and the bad bank was created to buy from those banks all the housing they had. And now, in case this wasn't enough, they're reselling all those homes to vulture funds to create a new bubble, this time the rental bubble. While all of this was happening, the ILP of the Mortgage Affected Platform was absolutely distorted, trying to guarantee decent housing. All those autonomous laws with which we tried to dignify both the social role of housing and energy poverty were resorted to by the Constitution. Haven't you done enough for the soul's little friends? That's the question we ask ourselves. Haven't we done enough? Hasn't enough been done in this House? Lucia, of course you can. We are doing this in some governments and we want it to be done from here too, from the state parliament, because we have to decide which side we are on: whether we are on the side of speculation or the side of the welfare state, whether we are on the side of vulture funds or the side of the right to housing, whether we are on the side of banks or on the side of people. We, Compromís, have it very clearly: we are on the side of dignity, we are on the side of basic rights, we are on the side of always prioritizing people above banks. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u38	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u39	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We're five years late. We had the opportunity to discuss a text a number of years ago with the government of the absolute majority of the People's Party and its content was greatly distorted to the point that today there are still no effective solutions to the drama of the launches and the mortgage evictions. It is true that there has been a deep crisis and that those who have suffered this crisis mainly have been those who, as a result of the loss of their jobs, have not been able to cope with the payment of their monthly home fees. Therefore, we want to have a calm debate on this law and to give genuine solutions of substance and stalemate that allow for a dignified way out when exceptional cases like those of this crisis occur and which are so deeply painful. We're going to work from rigour so there's a broad consensus, so then, if someone doesn't like this law, they don't go to court to bring it down. Let's try to make it a law that guarantees the right to housing for all people, also for those who are paying a rental rent or paying a mortgage fee and who today, in Catalonia at least, see their homes occupied. You have appealed to the Constitutional Court this law which intended to provide a mechanism that the law does not provide for to guarantee the right to housing also of these people. I don't know why they don't want to protect them. We will work to ensure that this law recognizes them. We will work to require the Government of the State to raise resources to the laws, in this case the Catalan law, both of energy poverty and of housing emergency, which are good laws. I have not heard that you demanded this from the government - at least I have not paid enough attention to it and therefore excuse me - but it will be our claim. Furthermore, we want all competences to be scrupulously respected. This bill doesn't do it. We are going to vote in favour, but we are going to demand a calm, rigorous and quiet debate to give a definitive solution to what the People's Party has been unable to do during the crisis and in its years of absolute majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u40	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u41	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Martín said in her speech that this does not end here. It just doesn't start either. Housing policies have existed and have existed for a long time elsewhere. They exist with concrete development and with concrete content in respect of which, with all due respect, we believe that this initiative is absolutely disrespectful. We understand that it is a proposal for a law of great scope and legal complexity that in thirty-three articles, grouped into five chapters, addresses many measures to deal effectively and effectively with the housing emergency situation. And it proposes the amendment of a series of laws with different scope and purpose, extending even its content beyond the objective or functional limit that had been proposed in principle. In addition, we believe that the initiative is intended to address the following issues. First, it seeks to respond and resolve situations of over-indebtedness and abuse of the financial system - there are precedents in other places -; to ensure the provision of housing alternatives to families in residential exclusion who suffer procedures for launching the family home - we think this issue is more than acceptable -; to develop mechanisms to increase the public housing stock; and, fourthly, to amend urban lease legislation to provide greater guarantees to tenants or to establish mechanisms to avoid situations of cuts in basic supplies, for which there are also other precedents. In addition, in line with this objective, it proposes the amendment of a fairly broad plurality of laws. Thus, it proposes to amend the Civil Prosecution Act, the Mortgage Act, the Urban Rental Act, the Law on listed public limited companies for investment in the real estate market, the Law on Soil, the Decree regulating the State Plan for the promotion and rental of housing, the Law on Local Finances, the Law on the Electricity Sector and the Law on Flexibilization and Promotion of the Housing Rental Market. However, these regulatory amendments mainly affect the Civil Prosecution Act to introduce procedural amendments aimed at hindering evictions and over-indebtedness motivated by access to housing, for which it also proposes an amendment to the Mortgage Act introducing as a general rule liability limited to mortgaged property compared to the current one: unlimited and universal liability. It also amends the Urban Leases Act, the Leases Act, the land law as to the commitment to be made by public administrations; that is, it is a set of measures in many of which we participate, in others we disagree and in others, sincerely, it is not that they are questionable, but that they are simply insurmountable. But what draws our attention most to this initiative is the dogmatic nature, on the one hand, of the proposal as a whole and, on the other, the absolutely centralizing tufo of much of the proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, the PNV has always been a party of values, the main one being social cohesion, something which it has put into practice in Euskadi. We have always argued as a political philosophy that a society with economic development but without social cohesion was not a developed society. That is why we have advocated and practiced certain actions where we have ruled - the Basque Government, historical territories and Basque municipalities - with a cohesive model of society, with essential public services that are guaranteed and sustainable social policies. For this reason, we cannot allow others in this situation - among which we are drawn to the attention of some parties without the title of nationalists - to use the crisis of the welfare state to centralize their own public policies and to continue to transform the political autonomy of Euskadi and other nations of the state into mere management autonomy. We at least want to deepen our self-government, to be allowed to develop our own policies and strategies and not to coerce them, as the People's Party did before, but not to impose them on us, as this initiative seeks. The clearest example of this intention is the first additional provision of this proposal which states that this proposal is covered by article 149 of the Constitution, which confers on the State the necessary powers in the fields of this law. But with a degree of undefinedness and absolute inconcretion. It is that the Constitution does not treat housing as a matter of State competence but that article 148.1 is attributed to the autonomous communities. Nor does it do so with the intensity with which this initiative is carried out, but the planning of the territory and the coast, urbanism and housing are competence, according to the statute of autonomy, of the Basque Country. That is why we have developed our own housing law, in which we have developed much of the measures anticipated in this legislation. Other measures are of social assistance and also conflict with article 10.12 of the Statute; others in the electricity sector and also conflict with other legislation of the Basque Parliament or, essentially, conflict with the Local Finance Act, which is a clear conflict, a clear violation of the Economic Concert. And while it is true that this bill also deals with other issues that are procedural, that these are matters of State competence, they are instrumental issues of the substantive ones to which I referred earlier. Does this mean, after all, that we are against the measures of the project? How are we going to be if most of them are already implanted in Euskadi. There are, of course, some to which we cannot give any kind of approval, but above all it has been the absolutely centralizing tone that derives from the content of the law itself - not from its action, Mrs Martín - which prevents us from supporting this initiative. Perhaps in another context, using other legislative initiatives that already exist, taking into account legislative initiatives in the State that are even in process, with measures that are already in force also in autonomous communities, we would have deserved our absolute support. It can't be this time, Mrs. Martín. That's why I'm telling you, as I told you at first, this doesn't end here; it's already started. You know that public housing policies were developed in many places. You cannot with initiatives such as this you can coerce them, re-centralize them and prevent with them the self-management of these matters by the autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u43	Bona tarda, deputies, deputies, president, friends and friends of the PAH and the Alliance against Energy Poverty. Parliamentary time is sometimes extremely slow, and political coalitions sometimes do it slower. The reality today throughout the Spanish State is enormously hard for those who lose their homes or cannot pay the electric bill and have spent years in this situation. Fortunately, there have been movements that have always been on his side and that have reduced the hardness of life to many people, but we have been lacking in the proper legal structure to prevent it all this time. The Platform d'Afectats for the Catalan Mortgage, the Alliance against Energy Poverty, the DESC Observatory, promoted a popular legislative initiative, an ILP, of urgent measures to address the emergency in the field of housing and energy poverty. It received great support from the Catalan population, 150,000 signatures, and was unanimously approved in the Catalan Parliament in July 2015. We finally had a law and, from this law, other autonomous communities were added, but it fell like a jar of cold water - always a jar of cold water - the challenge by the People's Party; the People's Party resorted to the Constitutional Court. Behind these resources there has always been an over-protection of the powerful and a huge hypocrisy between what is said in this rostrum and concrete reality. Look, that law, like the one they are proposing now in this House, prohibited the execution of any eviction that did not previously offer a social rent, took the possibility of punishing large housing holders and established the need to guarantee basic supplies to avoid cuts in supplies, among many other points. In May 2016, key articles, executive articles, were challenged. This was not the first law made by the Parliament of Catalonia. In 2013, a decree-law amending the Consumer Code was adopted, partially annulled by the Constitutional Court in March 2016. Also in 2015, an attempt was made to adopt a law on measures to protect the right to housing, which was again challenged by the People's Party in the Constitutional Court. This has been the reality until today. New perspectives have now been opened up. If we voted to have the People's Party government go away, it was also to have new prospects in Catalonia and throughout the state, the possibility of doing what so many people have needed for so long. Generate rights, but not only by word, not only by paper, but above all by offering guarantees, instruments that have to be tools that change things, that transform this reality. It is true that by literally reading the proposition we can encounter contradictions, no doubt. It is sometimes difficult to understand what state laws are and what they are about developing autonomy, but we are sure, sure, that we can resolve this in the parliamentary procedure and that in that procedure we have the opportunity to improve it. It would be utterly ignominious for future fear to keep us in the present reality, in the situation of everyday life, in the constant suffering of many and many people. [[Applauds]] Lack of legislative tools means that by the very good intentions that you have from a city council or from an autonomous parliament, if you lack this legal umbrella that the state reserves today, you cannot implement what is necessary. Rosa, from Reus, or Jordi, from Cornellà, have been some of the multiple victims. I think that every day we would have to see a photograph of these people to understand that from this Chamber we do not legislate, black on white, papers or laws, but we legislate on people's lives and also on their death. So, today we have a chance. Catalan Republicans want the independence of Catalonia, you know, but we want it so that everyone, everyone, can live better, but always with solidarity ahead, always knowing that it affects us just as much as someone suffers in Seville or Girona, that someone has problems in Santiago or Tarragona. They'll never take away our solidarity. These are our principles, it is our will: always, we will always be at your side. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u44	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u45	Gentlemen of Podemos, for starters, if you can, why haven't you done anything yet? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Let's talk about the issue of housing, which is one of the great challenges facing our country; about the issue of housing that, together with that of corruption, was one of those drivers of the just citizen indignation that completely changed the political landscape of this country. There is a group of parties that today jointly sign a proposal that brings us associations and that is a group of parties that wanted to capitalize in some way on that just citizen outrage over evictions and corruption; today they come together to bring that proposal to us. One thinks: Bildu, Compromís, Esquerra and Podemos have come together, what can go wrong? [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u47	A lot of things can go wrong and I'm actually going to make you a list of what those things can go wrong. In fact, where they rule with the invaluable help of the PSOE, of Dr. Sánchez, the pampered, things go very badly. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And as I prefer to look at what you do and not at what you say, I will allow myself to remind you - since much of the housing skills reside in the autonomous communities and in the cities - what you do so that you do not deceive us or anyone else in this House. And I will make the cities of Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia an example. Look, gentlemen of Podemos, in Madrid, as far as my information comes, through Carmena govern you. Carmena, accompanied by her five accused councillors - a separate appointment to make it clear what her obsession with democratic regeneration is - created a housing advisory council chaired by herself. The council intended - I am opening quotes - to 'analyse the numerous housing needs of people at risk of exclusion, as well as the dynamism of the real estate sector in order to take the appropriate measures'. Gentlemen of Podemos, you have not met once, you have not met once! How can they have this face? Mrs. Carmena promised 4,200 social housing during her tenure, do you know how many they've built, gentlemen of Podemos? Not one. They promised 4200, they didn't build one! During Carmena's term the rental price has risen by 32% on average, the price of new housing has risen by 27% on average and, meanwhile, her mayor, the mayor of all of her party, prevents development plans for 100 000 homes to be built in Madrid. Do you know who did the right thing about housing in Madrid? The Okupas; the Okupas have done quite well. And I'm going to give you an example of how you protect them and how you defend them by quoting again - with quotes - another councilwoman, Rommy Arce, accused, who at a meeting in a humble neighborhood of Madrid said textually: 'If an okupa enters your building, don't call the owner of the house or call the police, help them integrate into the community.' These are the policies that you seek to implement with the Okupas. What has Colau - Barcelona - done? So basically the same as her friend Carmena: nothing. It promised 4000 homes, it has built 800; that is, 20% of what it promised. With the Government of Colau they only grow to keep you and okupas, which seem to be the solutions that populism usually offers us, which sign this proposal, to the problem of employment and housing. By the way, there is another sector in the housing that grows in the city of Barcelona: the narcopisos and those parks in some humble neighborhoods, which have the neighbors frightened and tired of seeing who are occupying those parks. Meanwhile, the price of rents beats records - it goes up 30%-, Colau promises to end evictions but it goes 4000 per year; the register of home seekers beats records and already goes up 36 000; the syntheses increase by 25%; 70,000 irregular settlements, etc. Valencia, Mrs Sorlí, ruled by you, by Compromís, with the invaluable support of Dr Sánchez - has two councillors imputed as well, since we start to remember imputed councillors -: 95% of the city's housing investments are not executed. Mrs. Sorlí, aren't you ashamed to come up here and talk about housing when where you govern you have 95% of the unexecuted housing budget? [[Applauds]] The Cabañal, abandoned; of the 5 million that were going to be allocated to its rehabilitation, not one euro, Mrs Sorlí, has been executed, not one euro. This year, EUR 2 million was going to be allocated for aid to those who have difficulty renting a home, out of that EUR 2 million, do you know how many euros you have used? They have used 840, Mrs. Sorlí; that is, they have used a 0.042, as my colleague Fernando Giner denounced in his City Hall. These are the facts. You, Mrs Sorlí, said that this, what you were doing today, dignifies politics. Do you know what politics dignifies, Mrs. Sorlí, gentlemen of Compromises, gentlemen of Podemos? Complying with what is promised dignifies politics. [[Applauds]] You see, there are many aspects of this proposal that do not convince us: to extend contracts, to set prices - extremely dangerous - to complicate bonds. And one was afraid when he was reading the whole petitum and, in the end, he ended what one feared: with the chavista 'expropiese'. But I will remind you of two things, what serious economists say, from Krugman, to whom I believe some of you respect, to that Swedish, Lindbeck, who said: Price controls are the best way to destroy a city, apart from bombing it. I would add: apart from being governed by Podemos, Compromís, Esquerra Republicana or Bildu, all those who are signing a proposal like this. What do we think should be done? Social rental housing but indeed, not those dwellings which Mr Spinar is awarded and which he then transfers to draw money, indeed; rental incentives, rent subsidies, social rent, social rent for those who are being released, increase the investment to expand the public housing stock, attract through incentives - incentives, not tax increases, signers -, rehabilitate underutilized municipal buildings, ensure the proper use of municipal housing, pay-off - is something that we have already brought here -, etc. Gentlemen of Podemos: This cannot be done! And I say to them in a curial plan: Yes, you can! Of course you can! Of course it can be done! Start preaching with the example where they rule, who can do so, and stop fooling people. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this country urgently needs to develop in depth and with the proper solidity a new housing policy that places it at the centre of all urban, social and economic policies, although the actor Cantó has a lot of work to understand. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, housing is an essential element of the welfare state and it is therefore essential that, once and for all, policies be promoted from the state to support the progressive realization of the right to adequate housing, policies that combat all forms of discrimination and prevent forced evictions, and that they also focus on the needs of the homeless, people in vulnerable situations or low-income groups. In short, what is needed is to give housing policies the social and human character that they should never have lost, giving a turn to all the policies of the People's Party Governments in this area, which are characterized by their subordination to economic interests along with a scarce endowment in housing programmes or by the lack of effective measures to deal with the drama of evictions. It is a regrettable and worrying inactivity that of the State so far to deal in a global way with the housing problem of a large part of Spanish society because it has been limited in recent years to patching with clearly insufficient solutions and of a marked macroeconomic nature the most pressing problems in the field of housing. And this need is demanded from different areas of society, with a broad consensus in this sense, and it was precisely that consensus that caused a group of citizens to present almost a year ago to the various political groups in this House five proposals for the right to housing and against evictions that summarized under the title of the Housing Law of the PAH, a text that, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we studied in detail, concluding, and so we transferred it to this platform of mortgage-affected people - many of whose components are here today with us and I also want to welcome them all - which, in the terms in which the initiative is being drafted, seemed insufficient, ambiguous and without a legal structure sufficiently consolidated to ensure that everything that it contemplates could really be carried out. In short, it is a better text - we have heard it here - that it is full of voluntary measures that we do not question whether they are well-intentioned, but which, without a doubt, needs a greater degree of concreteness and development because in many cases we are talking about ambiguous concepts, such as the definition of residential exclusion, where they introduce the concept of unity of coexistence, but they do not specify what it consists of. The same applies to the vulnerable concept, which they define in an ambiguous and obvious way, because the impossibility of interruption of supply for vulnerable consumers at risk of social exclusion is already reflected in the current system. In addition, the text provides for proposals that could be said to be contradictory, such as the imposition of ex officio litigation without distinguishing between the figure of the lawyer and the ex officio prosecutor from the cases of free justice; consumer insolvency cannot always be presumed. They are shortcomings of this text that could be salvable, as may be the lack of regulation of an administrative procedure for the declaration of empty housing. They define the concept of empty housing, but they don't talk about the procedure. As I say, there are shortcomings and errors in the text that they present, which will require hard work if it is finally approved for consideration. It will also be necessary - of course not! - to talk about competences. However, this text was recorded in this House as its own initiative by the proposing groups, probably driven by those six years of total absence of housing policies. Indeed, the inactivity of the previous Government led us from different groups to present various initiatives aimed at addressing the challenge of housing and, in particular, rent. In this respect, they know that my group has registered a proposal for a law on measures to promote stable rent, which includes, among other measures, that leases have a binding extension of five years, after which the contract is extended annually to a maximum of three years, or that the increase in rent is subject again to the evolution of the CPI. These are measures we are working on to protect tenants. In this regard, we are aware that the current Government is also working to regain State leadership in the area of housing, undertaking short-term but also long- and medium-term structural measures, as announced here by the Minister of Development. Recently, on the 12th, also here, in the parliamentary seat, the President of the Government spoke of the need for a future state housing law. As you see, housing policy is once again a priority for the Executive, being one of the first actions launched the creation of an interministerial working group for the development of urgent housing measures, which is already working. Yesterday it met and they are working, as I said before, on the impetus of actions that face the challenges of housing and, in particular, of renting. They are seeking maximum coherence in public policies, with the following main objectives: to regulate the social role of housing, with special attention to the most vulnerable groups and to its configuration as a public service of general interest; to mobilize empty housing, both of natural and legal persons, for rent; and to ensure access to housing with the criterion of equality among all Spaniards. To this end, in collaboration with the other administrations, it provides for the promotion and protection of a public park of 20 000 rented dwellings, which will make it possible to meet the needs of the most vulnerable people, strengthening the role of Sepes, improving the financing of the promotion of rented dwellings through the ICO and encouraging in collaboration with the private sector the provision of housing, especially in those geographical areas where the market has experienced greater tension. So, you can be quiet. The spokesman for Foro Asturias, who had many doubts, could also be calm, because, ultimately, what the Government was going to do was to comply with article 47 of the Constitution and to develop a basic legal regime that responded to the social role of housing. Ladies and gentlemen, almost all of us, including the Government of the nation, believe that every effort must be made to end the homelessness of many people or the extraordinary difficulties in accessing a housing solution that still exists for many Spaniards, in some communities more than in others, that must also be said. Well, part of that effort involves uniting wills, pooling work, dialogue and, finally, making the right to decent housing a reality. In this we agree with the proponents and this is why the Socialists are going to vote in favour of taking account of this proposed law which we are debating, bearing in mind that there is much to be said about housing. As I said at the outset, the text is insufficient for us. It is full of gaps and issues that are necessarily improveable. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be done about housing and much to be recovered, but it must be done well. It's not just good will. It is not enough to promise, but to ensure that what is promised is feasible and to put all the tools into it. That's what you can and should do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u50	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I especially greet the representatives of the PAH and the other groups who are with us today. Ladies and gentlemen, although we cannot share this proposal for a law on Podemos, I am glad that we are talking about housing in this House today, because when Mr Sánchez came to occupy La Moncloa, using the simile in terms of housing, he promised that housing would be a priority. He promised that he would change, reorient the housing policy of this country, literally shield the social role of housing. But for now we have only seen hypocrisy, hypocrisy on the one hand and hypocrisy on the other, only measures to get well on the part of the Socialist Party, but not with its own voters, who put their hands to the head in the face of their news of intervening the rents, but not yet knowing whether we protect the tenant or the tenant, whether we raise taxes or lower them. It is like everything the Socialist Party has done so far, to look good, but to look good with the groups that have supported them in the motion of censure to usurp the government to the People's Party. The first item paid, the sign, was no longer to vote, along with Podemos, on the bill passed in this Congress for the eviction of the Okupas in housing illegally, and then the hypocrisy of the leaders of Podemos supporting their leader, who acquires a house of more than half a million euros when for the rest of the citizens asks for rents of 100 and when trying to steal their rights, limit the possibility that someone can have more than five houses or 800 square meters of surface. [[Applauds]] Please, please! And then, Mrs. Colau, who promises four thousand homes and is not able to do more than three hundred, but then pulls along the easy path: intervene the others, intervene the work of others and the effort of others. In these measures to get well of the Socialist Party there are also the announced twenty thousand houses, but we still do not know when or where, but it is good to say so. Another thing, the intervention of rental prices, the intervention of the market to generate more supply, and according to Mr Ábalos not to those who have one floor or two, or still do not know if according to the place, we will see. Or this morning's news, coercive measures against the owners of empty houses. It did not take Mrs. Lastra 24 hours to deny this news. It's the same, the practice of the probe balloon. Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing that the Socialist Party has done well in this mandate has been to implement the housing plan of the People's Party, just as it came from a package, because in substance and despite criticism they must consider it a good plan. [[Applauds]] They even distributed the money to the autonomous communities, the money that was also recorded in the budgets of the People's Party. That's where I'm going to stay, in the measures of the People's Party. Mr Pah, the promoters of this text which is being debated here today, know that we have agreed on the fundamentals of this proposal for a law, because we have met many times and talked a lot about this. You know, gentlemen of the PAH, that we agree in essence, in the objective to be achieved, that it is to guarantee the right to housing in Spain, but three things must be said. First, that there is no question at any time that there are people at social risk who need to be taken care of, but the measures brought to this House today have no additional or extraordinary advantages with regard to the measures that the People's Party Government has put in place. Secondly, the housing plan of the People's Party already launched by the PSOE solves much of the problem that this law seeks to solve. And third, the reality that is justified by the latest emergency and eviction data shows that much of the justification provided is not real. According to the data of the General Council of the Judiciary, the number of mortgage executions has decreased considerably; for example, since July 2014, which was its highest point, it has been reduced by 84 %, and unfortunately the evictions for rent have been increased in the last quarter by 1,1 % compared to the previous year, and they know that we share their concern about this. That is why we have already done, ready to manage - and this has been done - a housing plan containing six different programmes, six aimed at increasing housing for affordable rent. We are also aware of the increase in the rental price due to effects that are not also contemplated in this law, such as tourist rental. By the way, admirable is the solution of Minister Ábalos, who says that a certain order must be placed, a certain order must be placed. [[shows a press headline]] Mr. Abalos is really brilliant! Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against the adoption of this bill and, I repeat, not because we do not share the main objective, which is to comply rigorously with Article 47 of the Constitution, but because we understand that the People's Party has put in place measures that have resolved the evictions and the economic crisis that has caused them, and because our housing plan, which aims to increase the housing stock intended for rent in this country and the existence of a specific bag of emergency housing for citizens suffering from evictions, is already under way. It is done in a constitutional way, making the offer more flexible, increasing the offer of housing, which is the only way to lower prices, and not with measures such as those offered by this law: consider large housing forks to which they have more than five dwellings or 800 square meters with the loss of rights over properties that are not habitual housing, protect illegal occupations, increase to 10 years the minimum period of rent under certain circumstances or the intervention of rental prices giving the power to the municipalities. These measures, Mr de Podemos, have not worked in other countries, either in Berlin or in Paris, causing the very opposite effect. Finally, a council to the Lords of Podemos and those of the Socialist Party, who go together in this, the good path is the one they are following, implementing the housing plan of the People's Party and proposing more housing in the market and increasing the supply. This chavista regime of housing proposed by Unidos Podemos is the only thing that it will do is to paralyse the placing on the housing market and to have a negative impact on the Spanish economy and society. I'm done, Madam President. To the lords of the PAH, of the Mortgage Affected Platform, I have to tell you that I respect your work and admire the work you are doing. They know that they also have our commitment to guide those proposals that we consider fair and to work on concrete measures, but we cannot support this text. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u53	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the fight against tax fraud and the promotion of transparency regarding tax amnesty. I give the floor to Mrs Vera Ruíz-Herrera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Frankly, there are days when one rises with a certain impotence that we cannot change the things we want to change and how quickly we want to change them, and there are days that have the whole sense of the world that we are here; how timely it is to have to go out now to talk about the fight against corruption and tax fraud, after having heard this absolutely pathetic debate about the right to housing. Well, what an honor to have to go out and fight corruption after you have said in the face of public housing defense platforms the things you just said. Señor Cantó, who is not here now, tell them what vulture background means, tell them what it means to have to talk to a person who is not only a deputy but has worked with the PAH for ten years and has been a spokesperson for it. You have to have very little shame. [[Applauds]] Today, once again, in our tireless, sometimes exhausting, attempt to achieve a little social justice in this country, we speak again of insane democracy, of sick democracy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u55	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u56	Don't get upset, because you also have to have a lot of patience to listen to the speeches we've heard before. It seems a lie that with all the things that we have lived in the short term of the legislature that we have, that after having lived a motion of censure to cast, to evict the corrupt government of the People's Party for an outraged people, not thanks to us, that no longer wanted to endure the corruption of the People's Party and paying the privileges of a few while paying for the crisis, it seems a lie that with all that we have talked about all this we have to say again in this rostrum that corruption is corruption comes from wherever it comes from, whoever it is from, whether from this Congress of Deputies, from any public office, from the Royal House or whoever it is; it seems a lie that we have to say it again. It is a question of democratic health to speak about it, but it is also a question of social justice, precisely for what we have just spoken about. We are talking about people who have welcomed Montoro's tax amnesty, who have taken money from everyone and from all the citizens to tax havens and who have regulated it in this country by taxing much less than all the people who were sitting there fighting against evictions. It is a shameless thing that has happened in this country during all these times and it seems to us incredible that the Socialist Party is refusing to publish this list, I mean it. You, who are so constitutionalists, who cling so much to the Constitution, should know that the Constitution exactly what it says is that all Spanish citizens are going to contribute to the sustainability of public spending according to their economic capacity. But you only accept the Constitution when it gives you the will. You just welcome the Constitution when you have to make a pact of silence, without asking the people, between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, to change the 135 and leave the social majorities at the stand, including the platforms affected by the mortgage. [[Applauds]] That's what you've done, taking advantage of the Constitution when you have to pull out of 155 to abuse and take away sovereignty from Catalonia. That's what they're doing and they don't want to see anything else. This tax amnesty is an absolute tax fraud. It's a fraud. While people have honestly had to pay with their taxes the crisis, you have decided to protect and put the banks ahead, knowing that, 'at best','may', 'the same', the owners of those banks, the bankers, were taking over that Montoro Tax Amnesty Act. We're from the 15-M. When you separate those who sit up there from those who sit down here, you're wrong. What we brought before was not a law of our own, it was a law of the PAH. We come from the Mortgage Affected Platform, from the social movements, from the 15-M, because we suffered in first person your crisis. We had to camp because we were personally harming your policies. We said it clearly, it wasn't a crisis, it was a scam, and you were making us pay it. [[Applauds]] Have you not yet understood that we are the very consequence of the political mismanagement that you have done all these years? We said all that time that we were not going to continue paying your privileges so that you would live in the king's body, with food, going to the stage and protecting your corrupt friends, while we were paying for the crisis, while the education, health and all the social rights of this country deteriorated. But luckily, we woke up and here we are. We demand our right to know the truth, we demand our right to information, we deserve to know who are the accomplices that we have to pay for that crisis, who are the ones who took everyone's money to tax havens and then brought it here taxing far less than the social majority, than the autonomous, than the dispossessed, than the teachers, that the teachers, that the doctors, that the journalists, that the 'kellys', that anyone. We have a right to know. And if he is the Emeritus king, then he is the Emeritus king, and we want to see him on a list, because to that end Mr. Sánchez committed himself. Look, we're not talking about any figures; we're talking about every rule of economic abuse! It's just that if we start to take a good look, we realize that since the deadline for receiving the tax amnesty was 31 500 beneficiaries of that Montoro Tax Amnesty Act, 31 500. What does this mean? This means that around 1.2 billion were raised, less than half of what should have been raised! It's just that we haven't had, we don't have, there's no money for education, there's no money for health care, there's no money for schools. What do you mean, there's no money? You have taken him away and allowed him before all of us! [[Applauds]] But the worst thing about it and what I don't understand from the Socialist Party is that there are more than 715 people who have taken up this tax amnesty law and who, possibly, are not known, are not known, are related to cases of corruption. I will cite a few examples to remind you why you are in the black seats of the Congress of Deputies: Francisco Granados, of the Púnica case, regularized 1.5 million euros with the tax amnesty of Montoro; Diego Torres, former partner of Urdangarín, there the Royal House that you do not want to investigate, 160 000 euros from your account in Luxembourg, nothing more; Luis Bárcenas, of box B of PP, 21.9 million euros regulated; Alberto López Viejo, regularized 450 000. I'm running out of time. All I want to say before the end is that there is no right; they have laughed in our face; they have laughed in the faces of the dispossessed, of the pensioners, of the women, of the women who suffer from the violence of the macho; they have laughed in the faces of the whole world and you are being accomplices to that. You have accustomed us - and that is why we also go to the streets in the 15-M -, unfortunately, to say one thing in campaign and then come to power and do other things. Be brave and do not bring an amendment that all you do is say nothing not to be portrayed! Don't you want to vote in favour? Don't you want to comply with your election program? Don't you want to keep your promises? Tell the people! Tell the people and that when the day comes to see us in the polls people can vote in conscience, because of course we are not going to be fooled any more; we were not fooled when we were occupying the streets in the 15-M, we are not going to be fooled now that we are sitting in these seats temporarily. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u57	For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr De la Torre Díaz is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at last, there are some things, not many, more greedy, more opaque and more embarrassing than Dr Sánchez's thesis, for example, the fiscal amnesties of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Indeed, there is a fiscal amnesty that Mr Montoro made in 2012, but there are two previous ones that the socialist governments made, and the point of our amendment, of course, is to include them and condemn them all. [[The lady]] Mr Montoro, of course, is no longer in the government, but curiously one of the main ones responsible for the first fiscal amnesty, which is the massive issue of opaque Treasury payers, is Mr Borrell, who is in the socialist government. This has not been taken into account and, of course, it seems to us that the fiscal amnesty of Borrell, as well as that of Solchaga and Montoro, is so lame, so unfortunate and so condemnable, because we are against fraud and believe that fiscal amnesty only favours injustice and fraud. In this respect, if you do not accept our amendment, we will ask for a point-by-point vote. In any case, speaking of tax amnesties, Mrs Vera complained that Dr Sánchez did not keep his word. What a novelty! When we come to an agreement with both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, we demand specific questions relating to fiscal amnesty and you have given the power to Dr. Sánchez without demanding anything in return. And then you miss the opacity of the tax amnesty? This is a doubt we have. The Socialist Party in its amendment, as well as in parliamentary replies, as well as Dr. Sánchez in his statements when he came here to talk about the failure to comply - and this was one of his first failures, of course after the fact of not calling elections - said that a report by the Attorney General's Office in the Ministry of Finance considered it unconstitutional to publish the data of the tax amnesty. Interestingly, when these reports tell them that what needs to be done is to defend the rule of law, defend the Spanish jurisdiction and defend Judge Llarena, they try not to pay attention to them, but when these reports tell them that they do not publish data on the tax amnesty, it seems great to them. [[Applauds]] By the way, reports from the State Attorney's Office also said that the 2012 fiscal amnesty was constitutional and then declared it unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Well, I asked for this report on July 17. [[Show a document]] He is here, but not because the Socialist Government sent him to me - I asked him on 17 July and they did not send him to me - but because they preferred to send him to The Confidential. This is another example of the respect that the Socialist Party Government has for this House, which does not hand over the documentation on which it bases its actions. The report says that the right to opacity with respect to tax fraudsters who have received an unconstitutional tax amnesty cannot be changed by a law of Parliament. Awesome! Impresentable! Ladies and gentlemen of both the Socialist Party and the Podemos, let us be realistic, the reason why Dr Sánchez refuses to publish the names is not this report of the State's Advocate, the reason given by Mr Montoro a few months ago in this House when he said literally - the first part is a lie, but it is clear that the second not - that there was only one leader of the People's Party who had hosted the tax amnesty. He meant Mr. Rat, but then we saw that there were more, like Mr. Granados or Barcenas, that we knew. But he also said that there were, however, many more Members and leaders of the Socialist Parliamentary Group who had hosted the tax amnesty. Well, it seems that Mr Montoro was right all over the world and, logically, once this data has been known, the Socialist Party has decided that it does not publish a single name, it has decided to shield the opacity of the defrauders who took up the tax amnesty, in the same way that it previously granted two tax amnesties that were not appealed to the Constitutional Court but that also implied a slap and a shame. Time goes by irreparably and the three tax amnesties are prescribed, but why does the Group Podemos bring this non-law proposal here? Basically, because all the proposals we have made to try to approve the budgets relate to one thing only, to massively raise the taxes to which we already pay them. There is not a single proposal to combat tax fraud and in the face of Mr Sánchez's promise that he would publish these names they have brought this here to demand it as a way of washing his conscience, because they have neither done nor asked the socialist government absolutely anything to try to fight tax fraud. Finally, perhaps the most shameful of all this - it is embarrassing for others - is the question that Mr Sánchez has promised and which appears in the Socialist Party's amendment concerning the adoption of a law prohibiting future fiscal amnesty. I want to inform you that this is already in force. In 1991, during the second fiscal amnesty of the Socialist Party, something was established that is not repealed and that says literally the following: From 1 January 1992 no provision of any rank will be made which implies, for those who have failed to comply with their tax obligations, fiscal amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, plagiarizing this is absolutely useless. Why? Because after the second came a third fiscal amnesty, which is what the Socialist Party did. To have a minimum of fiscal justice, to prevent this from happening again, what needs to be done is to be more decent, to comply with the Constitution and to comply with the laws, not to demagogy as Dr. Sánchez did from the very moment he came to preside over the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u60	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when politics is left in demagogy, we do little for democracy and society. Mrs Vera, you know that I have tried to negotiate with you the Socialist Group's amendment. You know that I told you that it was even an improved amendment and that we were certainly prepared to move forward. You have neither been able to call nor to sit down with the Socialist Parliamentary Group to deal with this issue. [[Applauds]] I don't think that with your attitude you want to leave us nuts, obviously, but in my land, which is yours, you say you want to stick your finger in our eyes, and I think there's no place. At this very moment your political strength and mine are in constant contact, and this amendment would also have merited such contact and meeting, because of course our will is clear and clear: to continue moving forward. Mrs Vera, do you, or anyone, doubt the work that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has done by permanently denouncing Mr Montoro's shameful tax amnesty? Anyone doubt that? There have been all kinds of legislative and non-legislative initiatives, and we have always met with a wall, but it was the Socialist Parliamentary Group that denounced it. Mrs Vera, do you doubt or question that if the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional that fiscal amnesty was by an appeal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? Do you question our political commitment to that tax amnesty? [[Applauds]] I shouldn't question it. Mrs Vera, do you doubt that if the current government could publish the 30,000 fraudsters who have accepted that tax amnesty, it would not publish them? Mrs Vera, I am sure you do not doubt it either because the commitment of the Government and the President has been clear and sharp: that is a shameful amnesty that has coincided with one of the worst, if not the worst, moments of our democracy in cases of corruption, where there has been a collusion, because those corrupt have taken up the tax amnesty. That's never happened before. Therefore, do not doubt that reality. What's the truth if we don't want to get into demagogy? That if Mr. Pedro Sánchez takes possession on 2 June, on 17 July there is already a report from the State's Advocate as a matter of urgency. That is to say, the first thing the Government did was to ask the State Advocate, as a Government must do to guarantee legal certainty, to make a report on this because there was political will. Mrs. Vera, you don't doubt it, I'm sure. What did that State Attorney's Report say? The report has made it clear that under the current rules the list of those 30,000 tax fraudsters, including Barcens, Rat, Grenades and many members of the People's Party, could not be published; many, I am sure. It therefore states this in accordance with article 95 of the General Tax Act, which defines exceptional cases for making confidential data public and which can only be used for management and tax inspection purposes. [[Rumors]] The State Advocate also says that not only could the current law not be made public, but also that the General Tax Law could not be amended for this case because it was about firm legal-tributory relations and the effects of which would always be irretroactivity and in this case retroactivity is the illegality that would be committed. So what is the progress that I would like to make, Mrs Vera, apart from that amendment that has been tabled? Progress would be the political will that the Socialist Parliamentary Group continues to have to continue to make progress and to continue to explore what possibilities exist. The State Advocate said no; that is not a ruling of the Constitutional Court. There is scope for further progress, further study and further consideration of legal bases guaranteeing the legal certainty provided for in article 9.3 of the Constitution against the arbitrariness of public authorities, in which such a list would be made public in this case. [[Applauds]] I ask you, Mrs Vera, to respond to the amendments that we have tabled, which are amendments that go forward, for example, in terms of providing the Tax Agency with material and human resources because, do you know why they accept the tax amnesty? Because the tax agency hasn't investigated those non-declarants. If the Tax Agency had had the resources and means to inspect and investigate, and if instead of devoting itself, as it has done, to the verification of those incomes that we have all declared, it would have devoted itself to investigating, I am sure that they would not have had to accept the tax amnesty because they had settled sanctions, interest of delay and the kind of tax that we all have to pay. Therefore, welcome that amendment, welcome it because it is a step forward and let us not demagogy, and more, among the left forces that we have to defeat who is the author of the amnesty, which is a right...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u61	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u62	...who has done it for his own benefit. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u64	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. We are going to support the initiative put forward by Unite Podemos on three fundamental issues. The first, because we want to know what progeny of the Spanish homeland is behind that tax amnesty. We believe it is good that there is transparency and we believe that it is necessary that people, that citizens, that the popular classes of the Spanish State know who are those privileged people who can hide their money and benefit from a tax amnesty that is tailored to them, whoever they are. Therefore, we want the truth. The second reason is because we want everyone to be equal before the law. The State Attorney General said at the opening of the judicial process, in the face of the impatient gaze of the Bourbon, that justice was the most democratic thing that existed in the Spanish State because it made us all equal before it. Well, despite the look of the Bourbon, which is not the same as the others, we would like these 715 citizens to be the same as the rest and to be able to fulfil their obligations just as the rest does; therefore, justice. The third is because we want them to pay everything they would have had to pay if they had not benefited from that shameful tax amnesty, that is, to repair the damage caused; therefore, reparation. You see, making an analogy, here is also possible truth, justice and reparation. I conclude with a question, we will support this initiative - and this will not surprise anyone, nor Mr Girauta either - because we believe that the locks of the regime of 78 are harmful to the popular classes and to the peoples because they impede, through the articulation of a ferret territorial model, the freedom of peoples such as ours, as the Basque, but also as the Catalan, the Galician or others, and because we believe that it perpetuates an economic model based on the primacy of the elites, on the privilege of the elites and on the crushing of the popular classes. That is why we will support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, now that the President of the Government has opened the door to an express reform of the Constitution in order to eliminate the hindrances, we would like to see the inclusion of others such as, for example, that which the Socialist Party demanded when it was in the opposition: that the general or individualised recourse to tax amnesty should be absolutely prohibited within a constitutional reform. The fiscal amnesty promoted by former Minister Montoro was not only illegal, as the Constitutional Court said, but also proved to be an ineffective mechanism for recovering black money but also efficient for extending impunity in the face of fraud. Finance technicians pointed out that 11.5 % of those receiving the 2012 tax amnesty again defrauded the tax authorities. The Government's refusal to publish the list of beneficiaries of the aforementioned illegal tax amnesty makes it impossible to trace the origin of the money and its possible link to cases of corruption and, therefore, in the end, the evaders have had a magnificent result: they have laundered their money and are also protected by anonymity. Easier impossible. In Compromís we have already denounced the white letter that corrupt people have in Spain; a impunity that was also confirmed by the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek, in its last report. Action must therefore be taken, such as that contained in this bill that Compromís will already support. With regard to the fight against fraud, we recall that there are many other things to be done, for example, the initiative that Compromís put forward in the Prado Agreement, which proposed the creation of an office against fraud and corruption, or also our programmatic proposal to increase the human resources available to the Tax Agency, because we know that with each new inspection unit there is a fraud that brings benefits that multiply by 22 the cost of its creation. In short, this is a job we have to work on. In conclusion, and in relation to the last point of the proposal that we are discussing, concerning the problem raised with regard to the statements made by Mrs Corinna zu Sayn-Wittgenstein, we reiterate the need to extend the transparency of the members of the Royal House, obliging to publish their declaration of activities and property, both by acquiring and losing their status as members, because this, transparency, is something cross-cutting that citizenship demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u68	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The truth is that Podemos' attitude towards the Socialist Party and the Socialist Government reminds us more and more of the Citizens' attitude towards the People's Party Government and the People's Party. Do you remember to agree on all fiscal and budgetary measures and then vehemently criticise the government's economic and fiscal policy that citizens did and that we did not understand? You're doing exactly the same thing. You, through the media, explain to us that you are agreeing tax measures to increase taxes, that you are agreeing on the budget, that you are agreeing on deficit targets, and you come here to defend with great vehemence that the list of amnesties had to be made public. I remember when Mr. De la Torre from this rostrum required Mr. Montoro and Mr. Rajoy to publish the list, and they did not publish it, but immediately agreed on budgets and agreed on fiscal measures. You learned: we're going to look good, we're going to demand with a lot of vehemence that it be published, but nothing's going to happen and we're going to agree on the budget and the taxes. If it's so important, if it's so basic and you think it's legal, demand it as a precondition; don't make any tax increases, don't make any budget and tell President Sánchez - I remind the Citizens' Lords that Mr Sánchez had the doctorate when he made the investment pact with you and those hands that were given in the attached room, no one remembered at that time that Mr Sánchez had a doctorate -. In any case, demand it. I understand that you want to strike a somewhat cautious attitude on the part of Mr Sánchez. We warned of the legal difficulty of trying to publish this list, but on some points we absolutely agree. We are not going to support the proposal, we are going to abstain, but bear in mind that any serious proposal to combat fraud will find us. We even understand that it should be a priority before we raise some tax increases to which they already pay because, obviously, before we increase the taxes to which they already pay we must get those who do not pay to pay taxes to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u70	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Today we are debating here a non-legislative proposal on combating tax fraud and promoting transparency with regard to tax amnesty. A non-law proposition that is mainly a consequence of the 2012 special tax declaration, an euphemism, a softer name to obviate the expression fiscal amnesty. Our group, of course, was critical of this measure, positioned itself against it and, in fact, within our regulatory capacity in the tax field, we do not apply it in Euskadi. The fiscal amnesty was a deep disagreement on the part of the Government that regulated it, the Government of the X Legislature. It was a tremendous injustice and a capitalary comparative aggravation to those who fulfilled their tax obligations, since many defrauders were allowed to catch up with Hacienda by paying an irritant toll, around 3% on average, when they had to have most likely paid for income levels above 50% and of course questioned the real will of the Administration in the fight against fraud without even taking into account the ethical or moral principles of society. The truth is that the Constitutional Court's ruling annulled the tax pardon but not its consequences because it had no retroactive effect on the regularizations. Maintaining a determined fight against fraud is necessary. In addition, people and societies with undeclared assets have to understand that if the various estates discover it the effect has to be devastating. Our group is often in favour of those measures which have to do with the increase in the fight against fraud, also understanding that they are very necessary. The fight against fraud, against tax offences, in addition to being a collectory issue, is also a matter of social justice and ethics that citizens demand. Here we understand that at least elements of coordination or cooperation should be provided to eradicate fraud, amnesties and tax havens, a task that I sincerely believe belongs to all political groups and parties. It is not possible to sell or explain that in the heart of Europe we call democratic some people can hide their fortunes and nothing or almost nothing happens. The first step in combating tax fraud is to put in place preventive measures, which we call transparency and good governance measures. It is necessary for citizens to regain confidence in institutions, for all citizens to be considered equal before the law and for citizens' fiscal awareness to maintain the levels of developed countries. To combat fraud with rigorous inspection plans, with more inspectors, with greater coordination between finances at European level, acting clearly against tax havens; these actions and many more have and will have our full support. Having said that, focusing on the non-law proposal, and agreeing with many of its points, we believe that proposing to make public the list of fiscal amnestyes and, therefore, data of the natural or legal persons who have taken up that tax and extraordinary regularization, and the rest that goes in line, is somewhat difficult to implement because article 95 of the General Tax Act should be amended, since it provides for the reserved and confidential nature of tax information, which can only be transferred in certain cases or communicated to third parties by the Tax Agency. But, having said all this, we understand that since the declarations have been endorsed, that at least the publication of all these data is, in addition to justice, to achieve the smile of those people and societies that welcomed this aforementioned tax amnesty, which of course have been privileged vis-à-vis the other citizens. Despite the difficulties we see, as I have said, at the legal level, we do agree with the substance of the non-law proposal and we will therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u72	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It seems to us that this is a good opportunity to remember that we have been in socialist government for over a hundred days and that there are still political prisoners in Spain. And this, ladies and gentlemen, should embarrass you. I would also like to remind you that there are political prisoners, two women of peace who have always worked for harmony and for the well-being of the citizens of Catalonia, who are today imprisoned. And if it is already ignominious to be in prison without having committed any crime, it is more so as a woman, since the prison system of this country is designed by and for men, and often women are invisible. That's why we say loud and clear: Libertat Carme Forcadell, Libertat Dolors Bassa. [[Applauds]] The tax amnesty applied between March and November 2012 by the PP Government allowed nearly 31 500 taxpayers to regulate items acquired with undeclared income at a reduced interest rate. Instead of taxing 10 % of the total assets outflows, as originally foreseen, beneficiaries were allowed to tax 10 % of the interest collected in the fiscal years affected by the amnesty, and amnesties ended up paying an average of 3 % of the regularised amount. Result? The Government raised only EUR 12 billion, less than half of what was expected, which was EUR 25 billion, a real failure as well as a real fiscal privilege within the reach of very few. An amnesty that, by the way, was annulled by the Constitutional Court because it was contrary to the Constitution. Woe to God!, that Constitution and that Constitutional Court which acts as a scourge against the independenceists to prevent them from voting to decide their future, and which serves as a justification for repression against citizens and pacifist politicians, it seems that in this case it is better to look elsewhere and not pay much attention to that court. Gentlemen of the PSOE, in 2015 without going any further, Mr. Pedro Sánchez moved the then President Rajoy to publish the pardoned payroll by Montoro's 2012 tax amnesty. Pedro Sánchez said: publish the list of the tax amnesty or we will do so as soon as we reach the government. And on several occasions he asked for the release of this list of shame, literally said. A proposal that, by the way, they included in the electoral programme with which they presented themselves to the 2015 elections. Well, now that you're in the government, be brave and publish the names of the defrauders who took up that amnesty. Because it seems, gentlemen of the PSOE, that you live in Matrix and that when you are in the opposition you take the red pill and act as if you are a left that intends to challenge the regime of 78, asking for maximum transparency in the institutions of the State and that when you are in the government you take the blue pill and stand next to PP and Citizens acting as guardians so that that economic, judicial and police oligarchy that you have always commanded in this country will continue with your privileges. What are you afraid of, gentlemen of the government? Who's on that list? Maybe influential people from your party? Maybe people from the same Spanish monarchy? Does King Emeritus John Charles I appear on that list, as suggested by a German aristocrat known to all? Is this why the famous tripartite of 155, PSOE, PP and Citizens has rejoined, preventing a commission of inquiry into the monarchy? So be brave, publish the list and we'll know if rapper Valtònyc was right when he sang that of 'the Bourbons are thieves'. By the way, from this rostrum all the solidarity with comrade Valtònyc of whom Belgian justice has rejected extradition to Spain. It can be seen that singing songs in Spain can be described as terrorism, while in Belgium they consider it freedom of expression. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mrs Romero Rodríguez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to refer to the points relating to the actual decree and the ruling of the Constitutional Court briefly, since they have been debated on countless occasions in this House and the position of the People's Group, a group which maintains the same position in Government then as in the opposition now, which is not the case with other groups. As we said then, in 2012 there was an extraordinary regularization in Spain because we had 70 billion less tax revenues, inheritance of the socialist government, and it threatened the provision of public services, which allowed the outflow of assets outside Spain for 95 billion, to expand the tax bases - for that I do not have to tune up any doctorate, ladies and gentlemen - and to further identify the taxpayers holding them, expanding both the tax bases and the taxpayers. This regularization, as we said, did not exonerate the investigation of possible crimes, it was taxed on a reasonable type to bring forth money that was not known, but was taxed, not as in previous socialist regularizations. Do you not remember, Mr Hurtado, that of the year 84 for which the defrauders acquired the so-called Borrell payments, 18 billion, with total anonymity, without retention and above with interest, or that of the year 91, of Mr Solchaga, with anonymous debt of 10 billion and the same opacity and the same advantages? But they're still there. Because what about the Falciani list, which in 2010 invited a spontaneous statement to get rid of the charge of the tax offence, including prison? A full-fledged amnesty in 2010 and with defrauded money that was known. [[Applauds]] With regard to the second aspect, the Constitutional Court's ruling declared that regularization was null and void in the form of using the royal decree as an urgency and not a law, but not the substance. In fact, it endorses the regularizations and, as you well know, prevents their nullity. The judgment states that it was paid. It is incomparable with the 'happy hour' of socialist regularizations. With regard to the third aspect of tax fraud, I would like to say that in the last six years of the PP government the fight against tax fraud has yielded an average income of EUR 14,792 million per year, 48% more than in the six years of the previous socialist government. The amendment tabled by the Socialist Group - which I understand we cannot accept - supports this management. On four of its points they endorse the whole management of the People's Party because they say that we must continue to act as we have done so far. Finally, I stop on the subject of publication. You know that my group believes that it is unconstitutional and that it cannot be done. We don't need any State Advocate reports; we knew that before and so do you. Ladies and gentlemen of the proposing group, it was not we who believed that Mr Sánchez was going to do in the government what he did not do in the opposition; and neither did you, because you know well how the Socialists spend them - you, rapporteur, who are from my land, you know well how they spend them - when they make governability pacts. We knew from the minute one that what they say in the opposition do not do in the government. You were the ones who took them to La Moncloa. My group is not going to play the role of a socialist government, like others, either in Spain or in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Nor do we tolerate that they devalue all the high institutions of the State, as they do in their GNP: from the Constitutional Court - which with one hand they interpret at their will and with another they crave to disregard their sentences - to the Head of State and this House, which they use in their idyllic amorodius as if it were the set of a third-rate telenovela between the Socialist Party and the Lords of Podemos. You gave them the government and didn't ask for elections. You were screaming and asking for elections today. We do ask for elections. We don't take Mr. Sánchez to the government. We knew that he came to occupy La Moncloa and not to take care of the Spaniards; and to the proofs of his corrections and bandages I refer myself. He doesn't publish the list today or tomorrow, because he knows it's not legal and it's not possible. I knew it before and you know it now. What they are going to do is damage with their smoke policy, which is blacking out the social welfare and economy of the Spaniards - who are the ones who should decide with their votes the president they want - and that you have helped them invaluablely. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Romero Rodriguez. Mrs Vera, for the sake of saying whether or not you accept the amendments, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u76	No, we don't accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u77	Thank you so much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE DEFENCE OF THE SPANISH JURISDICTION AND CONDEMN THE SEPARATIST COUNTRY AGAINST JUDGMENTS AND TAXES. [[File number 162/000755]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u78	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the defence of Spanish jurisdiction and the condemnation of separatist harassment against judges and prosecutors. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 March a separatist command painted, painted and pointed out the house in my country, in Catalonia, Judge Llarena. As apparently neither the Government nor anyone with powers in this regard has done anything and the shame of pointing out a judge of the Supreme Court has continued to occur day and night for half a year, it has had to be our comrades who last weekend restored what the Government has not restored. For this reason, I would especially like to thank those who have done so and who are here: Anna, Jordi, Julià. Thank you. [[Greetings on the way to the guest gallery.-Applause]] One year after Spain lived a coup d'état, a coup d'état from the institutions themselves, a coup d'état from the State, the challenge remains, and in order to maintain the challenge, among many other things that pass through the control of the media used as propaganda apparatus, the school used as a tool of indoctrination, etc., for this reason the separatists have understood that they have a very powerful, powerful enemy, which is justice, and have embarked on a strategy of destabilization and harassment against Spanish justice, which, I insist, is the main dyke of containment with which they find themselves. For the Spanish justice system impartially, independently, has invoked the Constitution and guaranteed the validity of the legal system with which it wanted to end up mad. And it is the Spanish justice that is now impartially and independently investigating the responsibilities that may arise from that attempt to break the Constitution. I take this opportunity to recall - I know it is obvious, but as every day we see ourselves here, a few Members come out and say that there are political prisoners in Spain - that there are no political prisoners in Spain. Let's see who gets tired first. [[Applauds]] All of September 11, the entire supposedly national Day of Catalonia has been an organized, assembled, staged ceremony - if there is such a word - choreographed and retransmitted for a purpose: press the justice, look at you. It is the central and nuclear objective of separatists to undermine the independence of the judiciary, and to achieve this they have not hesitated to resort to the most vile techniques. Judge Don Pablo Llarena and his family have been victims of harassment, arrest, persecution, personal arrest - his own wife - and have had to leave Catalonia. One understands that he should receive at least those who are thus pressured to support the other powers of the State. We here try to get it from the Legislature at least, because Judge Llarena also met with a cheating lawsuit on the part of the fugitive Puigdemont and many other fugitives that includes a false translation, to finish distorting him, and the truth is that the government's reaction was not all that quick and effective that it should have been, and left a huge ambiguity with regard to his will and decision to assume the defense of the magistrate. It is true that after that and in one of the compulsive corrections that characterize Dr. Sánchez's government the attitude has been different, but there is something in the middle that explains it. The Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary granted amparo to Judge Llarena with a single vote against, a member who is no longer, because he has a high office right now. The Minister of Justice has made her manager of Judicial Mutuality. Price. Some of the things that the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary said must be read literally. I don't have much time for that now, but for example: a simple and brief reading of the claim made - against Llarena - shows that the plaintiffs in Belgium have called for an action aimed at defrauding the guarantees of the independence of Judge Pablo Llarena. In short, whoever read it and had certain legal notions, understood it this way, the General Council of the Judiciary understood it this way, and the whole judicial and prosecutorial career understood it this way. But after all this has happened, and after the government has rectified in its usual compulsion, two ministers have questioned the decisions of Judge Llarena, Mr Borrell and - I am particularly sorry - Mrs Batet, who have come to say or have said directly that there are other ways to maintain, to avoid the escape of these imprisoned politicians. There are other ways, it is his opinion; it is his opinion on the performance of a judge who is being pressured by media apparatuses, by unfair and poorly presented and falsified demands in his translation, who is being pressured by separatist commands in his own home, and who is receiving it from his own family, and from his decisions say two ministers of Dr. Sánchez's government that good, that could have been done otherwise. Man, please imagine it the other way around, imagine that the members of the leadership of the judiciary began to express their views on the decisions of his Government, which we were going to entertain, but not all the powers of the state are fulfilling their obligation at the same level. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your group, Mr Campo Moreno is speaking in the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Allow me to say my first words to show support for the injured in the fall of the Ritz hotel wall. We look forward to the early recovery of the wounded and, if that deceased is confirmed, I extend my condolences to the family members. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon's debate calls for a non-legislative motion tabled on 27 August - stay on this date, because it is important - in which we call for the support of this House to urge the Government to defend Spanish jurisdiction, as well as to condemn the harassment that judges and magistrates are suffering in the exercise of their functions, mainly related to the subject of the proceedings. It could seem like a beautiful debate in political, parliamentary and legal terms, in defence of Spanish jurisdiction, so that judges, judges and prosecutors can carry out their constitutional tasks with full guarantees and fulfilling their constitutional mandates. But, ladies and gentlemen, almost nothing in life is what it seems, and I would dare say that much less when it comes to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Because we are in a pseudo-debate, in a hollow debate, in an artificial debate. It has not been enough with the Minister's appearance explaining in detail how the will of a Government that immediately provided assistance and came out in defence of jurisdictional sovereignty was shaped, as well as putting in place the necessary elements for this to happen. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you have wanted to use the plenary as a case of resonance. They have a virtue, and with the presentation of this non-law proposition they lead us to political reductionism. Faced with a real or artificial problem - because it has more artificial than real - you launch a slogan: don't worry, here is the Citizen Group to save Spain and whatever it needs. There are three issues that they stress in their non-legislative proposal. The first is that of the defense of Spanish jurisdiction, but what happens? That the globite is pinned on them when, on 26 August, a note is issued from the Palace of Moncloa saying that all jurisdictional sovereignty is to be defended, all state machinery is to be put in place, and that a Belgian firm is to be hired immediately so that Mr Llarena, a magistrate of the Supreme Court of Spain, can defend himself in the face of the lawsuit brought by fugitives from justice in Belgium. I imagine the faces of the representatives of Citizens, saying: what do we do? And someone must have said, "Let's stop, it's okay, let's not let reality ruin our headline." And he presents himself on the 27th. But there was no cause anymore. So that's what we're into. We've been debating all these days about degrees, master's degrees, final master's jobs, PhDs. I don't know exactly what they have, though I'd rather say it's a title of their own in post-truth. They are specialists in distorting reality, they are specialists in provoking and trying to confuse public opinion, and they are specialists in playing with emotions. [[Applauds]] That's not the way. The second and third points are clearer: defence of public officials, judges and prosecutors, and condemnation of a personal attack suffered by Mr Llarena and his family. They will always find the Socialist Group there. The Socialist Party will always be there. But don't forget one thing, on August 26th came before the 27th, and therefore they had to have joined that issue, but no, they have preferred to present an artificial element and provoke this resonance box. [[applause]] Look, they don't care about point two and point three, what they care about is point one; that's the real point. Today Mr Girauta has had to play a game of transformation here, which he has quite used to when he intervenes, and he has had to focus on harassment of the judge, comrade Llarena. What's going on? That the order of priority means something, and it says: one, that the government is urged to defend the Spanish jurisdiction. Look, the government did what it had to do and it did it at the time it had to do it, when it was fully aware of all the details in which the civil lawsuit took place - by the way, I have no sense of saying it, instrumental lawsuit - to look for a torturer subterfuge with which to invalidate the judge's action in Spain, specifically in case 907 of 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the way, the way is, when it comes to a matter of state, to behave as such. But you don't, you like to get into the political arena, and it doesn't matter that, in this deterioration, the institutions suffer. They will never find the Socialist Group on that path. That is why we give them the opportunity to welcome the amendment tabled, and to continue to support national sovereignty and jurisdictional sovereignty, because as you say very well in your text defending justice is also defending national sovereignty - and the Socialist Group has no doubt - but in its double aspect of integrity and jurisdictional immunity. That is why we ask you to support this amendment, and that is where you will find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Campo Moreno. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u83	Thank you, Madam President. We discussed a non-law proposal that denounces the pressures that a part of Spanish justice endures for those who defy the Constitution and coexistence in Catalonia, and that we will support. It is true that his first point has somehow remained somewhat outdated, since the Government has ordered the defence of Judge Llarena as a matter of State. Now the question of State instead is whether the Government is bipolar, that is, whether it is able to defend the same judge from the persecutions he suffers, and at the same time to accompany his political action with the same parties that finance and applaud them. Spanish justice, ladies and gentlemen, must work without pressure, freely, subject to rules and independently. That is why we also condemn selective campaigns of harassment of justice, in this case of harassment of Judge Llarena. Harassment. Ladies and gentlemen, when Catalan independenceists allow the most well-known faces of Basque Batasunism to be their model, it is logical that strategies be united. They have decided that the strategy is conflict, the old method of tree and nuts, to generate conflict and to obtain - they expect - political benefits of conflict; conflict and obviously lies. The denunciation against Llarena, presented by an ex-terrorist, only once again demonstrates the lie on which the foundations of the secessionist claims movement are based. Neither did the judge say what they tricked the Belgian judge, nor was the side of Casanova an anti-Spanish proclamation, nor did Spain steal from us, nor was the smile revolution peaceful at the hands of ETA defenders; it is so. Former President Aznar, who was here this morning, said: before breaking Spain will break Catalonia, and makes them all agree. I'm done, Madam President. Beyond the official lie, repeated to the satiety by the means of the regime, beyond the stories and accounts of Mr Borrell, and after many years of 3%, if the state acts firmly and if the people in Catalonia, in a taboo spirit, decide to go out on the street to plant face without complexes to compulsory nationalism they will only have the recourse to imposition and violence, by the hand of Boye, Barrena and Otegui. They will not convince, ladies and gentlemen; nor will they overcome my conviction. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. Mrs Ciuró i Buldó also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u85	Thank you, Madam President. After the histrionicism with which some positions have been defended, I understand why the degradation that is taking place in the high bodies of Spanish justice and Spanish jurisdiction is occurring. I'll answer by reading them a decalogue. One, the Belgian justice refuses to extradite Valtònyc, since the judge understands that the crimes of which he is accused fall within the scope of freedom of expression. Two, the Belgian prosecutor's office opens an investigation into the beacon that was placed on the bottom of the car in which President Carles Puigdemont was moving. Three, the rector of Rey Juan Carlos University, when Cristina Cifuentes was a master's degree, is now a judge of the Constitutional Court. Four, falsified the record he proposed to Pablo Llarena as judge of the Supreme Court. Five, Pablo Llarena's wife appears involved in the case of bribery of the affair of the daughter of Marchena. Six, concern on the part of the European institutions about the decline in social recognition of equality and gender-based violence, following La Manada's ruling. Seven, Llarena sought protection from the General Council of the Judiciary for Puigdemont's civil claim in Belgium out of time, and was still granted. Eight, besides Juan Martínez Moya, one of the members of the Permanent Commission of the General Council of the Judiciary, which on 16 August granted the protection to Llarena, has been denounced for usurping intellectual property rights on an idea that several judges presented in a competition organized precisely by the governing body of the judges. Nine, Justice will be spent more than half a million euros in the defence of Llarena, an aspect that the Minister of Justice in her appearance could not guarantee in parliamentary office - as I say - and that all procedural channels of the State Contracts Act had been followed. Ten, with what authority do you claim respect for Spanish jurisdiction, when the President of the Council and of the Supreme Court charges against the European courts that have not accepted the Euroorders, or when Judge Llarena withdraws the Euroorder against President Puigdemont, rejects its surrender and accuses the German court of exceeding its limits and of a lack of commitment? As you can see, there are no fugitives. They are free persons in Europe with judgments of European courts and courts; free persons throughout Europe, less in Spain. They are also free because Judge Llarena himself has withdrawn the search or extradition order. Therefore there is no crime and Judge Llarena himself says so, because if not his obligation would be to recognize the crime. In conclusion, of course, we will vote against your non-legislative proposal because the Spanish jurisdiction, as far as its high bodies are concerned, has no defence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, let us leave ourselves with appearances disguised as legal language. What is this initiative about? Is it to support judicial independence? Is it to defend the jurisdictional sovereignty of the State? No, it is to defend a certain idea of the State, because in recent times more than ever the judiciary has been put at the service of a concrete idea of Spain, and problems have been placed in the hands of the courts which are of political essence and which alone and exclusively should have a political solution, and some of those courts have accepted that role, and in a tasty way. It does not matter whether to force the interpretation of laws, criminal types or facts. It is spoken with an absolute tranquility of beating. Do you really distinguish those who talk about a coup in Catalonia exactly what a coup d'état is? I insist, the interpretation of laws, of criminal types and even of facts has been forced, provided that it is to defend the supreme value of the unity of Spain, above the laws and all to one, all in a coordinated way: Government, courts and now Parliament is also asked to do so. When the claim for violation of the right to honour in the State was filed, it was taken to the fore, starting with the judges and Mr. Llerena himself: Bah! Where are these people going? But when it was seen that it took the body, time passed and then it went to the General Council of the Judiciary, which to give amparo had a very concrete time, despite the fact that that time had been exceeded, but since we all have to go to one in defense of a certain idea of the State, it breaks its criteria and gives amparo. The Government was also forced by the media to take a position, because what Judge Llarena did and what he was accused of took place in a private act, not in the exercise of jurisdiction, but in a private act, but seriously, since he was still an instructor, claiming that the facts constituted a crime. Where is this gentleman's appearance of independence, his image of impartiality? Because those statements, in case there was any doubt, make her more drowsy. They now want Parliament to cover their actions, both in public and in private practice, because, I insist, they took place within the framework of a private act and also in statements to journalists, without distinction. They are not defending the State with this attitude and with this proposal; they are defending all for one goal even above the law, and for the Basque Nationalist Party a rule of law is something else, although they believe that the Catalan nationalists have not respected the rule of law, which I will even grant, but that does not enable the rest, those who claim to defend the Constitution and the laws, to act in order to make the interpretation of the rules more flexible to their liking, because the proponents also lose all their legitimacy when they do so. That is what the European courts are seeing. I do not know if Llarena is happy that you have presented this initiative, because you could risk perfectly - imagine that a carambola is given - not to go out. He has not received a few soups in different European courts to receive another in the Congress of Deputies. [[The Lord]] Mr García Albiol, following another soup to the state - I insist that things are not done well, because legitimacy is lost when it is done in this way, above the system and making interpretations more flexible -, following the Valtònyc case and the Belgian position, has pointed out that Belgium has become a problem for the European Union. Ah! Has Belgium become a problem? So Germany, too, huh? Because I remember what happened to the German courts. Maybe the United Kingdom, too, huh? Because I remember what happened to the courts in the UK, specifically in Scotland, right? I am no longer going to talk about Switzerland, which is not the territory of the Union. What's wrong with Spain? What's wrong with Spanish justice? Which is not homologable. Doing politics from the courts does not lead to solutions to anything, and all it does is create more problems. Failure to respect the parameters of a rule of law is in no way healthy. With this initiative they want us to defend an instrumental idea of justice, and we are not prepared to do so. No, we don't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u89	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today we are debating and voting on a GNP presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which aims to seek the House's support for the alleged harassment of half of Catalans and Catalans to the judicial system. Once again Citizens seek confrontation rather than dialogue. Citizens are more concerned about Spain's unity than about the honesty and honesty of its leaders and deputies. At the end of August... [[Protests by Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa]] The speaking time is respected, please. In late August, President Carles Puigdemont, along with Toni Comín, Meritxell Serret, Lluís Puig and Clara Ponsatí, filed a civil suit against what they considered to have been a violation of their right to the presumption of innocence, the right to honour and the lack of impartiality of Judge Llarena. To all this is added the alleged irregularity in the appointment of Judge Llarena to the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, and then to investigate the case against the legitimate representatives of the Catalan people, a process that allegedly dates back to 2015, after the consultation on 9 November 2014, both cases denounced by the Association of Judges and Judges for Democracy. But also Judge Llarena does not perform his duties as judge, which as such is subject to a number of constitutional principles. It has proved to a great extent that it exceeds its interpretation of the Criminal Procedure Act, as it did in the case of the interlocutory that it issued to suspend the six deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia, Oriol Junqueras, Carles Puigdemont, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull, Raül Romeva and Jordi Sánchez a posteriori of the indictment, and that it violates the law and autonomy of the Parliament of Catalonia in the rights of the deputies and deputies. The interpretative creativity of the criminal law of Judge Llarena reaches levels of cynicism and provocation unimaginable. The blindness of destroying any peak of freedom in Catalonia prevents him from exercising his functions impartially and independently, despite the fact that in 2012, as president of the Provincial Court of Barcelona, Judge Llarena declared in an interview with the newspaper El Mundo the following: The question between Catalonia and Spain needs an essentially political solution. He further said: In any case, the court's response to the specific question of the Catalan identity and integrity of the Spanish State does not have a judicial response, but a political one. In spite of this, he is now willing to resolve the Catalan question - of course, on his own - by denying a political reality and by incarcating his spokesmen and legitimate representatives. However, we have seen several statements by Belgian and Swiss justice, which deny and reject the arguments for extraditing Catalan and exiled politicians and politicians, and which demonstrate the persecution we have in Spain. The last example, Valtònyc. Quite a setback for Spanish justice, especially for the Supreme Court. Judicial power is the only power of the State that is not subject to citizen scrutiny. If the judges did what they should do, it would not have been necessary for you citizens to have submitted this non-law proposal. If justice were truly independent, and the rest of the public authorities, no citizen would question either the sentences or the judges and magistrates themselves, as in the case of La Manada, nor would the great citizen opposition that gave rise to this sentence have been generated. We have high judicial bodies that are not a reflection of today's society, where there are women candidates who would deserve to be on top of those bodies because of merits and abilities and, on the other hand, there are others who, because of their friendships or political affinity, are now occupying those posts. In spite of all this, the Spanish Government is assuming, under the pressure of Mr Lesmes, that is the defence of Judge Llarena, for statements in the private sphere, which will also cost us more than EUR 540,000 to all citizens. We also question the procedure for ordering the law firm, which skips the Public Sector Contracts Act and the Transparency Act. But we also have to repeat that Mr Llarena applied for amparo after the deadline, questioning the principle of responsibility of judges and magistrates. In short, the problem is not people, but the continuous demonstrations of partiality of some judges in relation to some issues of great importance and social importance, such as Catalonia. In short, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, as always, act with the greatest hypocrisy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mr Moya Matas has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u91	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, you have chosen a good day, a very good day to bring this issue to Congress: twenty-four hours after the ridiculous umpteenth of Spanish justice, the umpteenth reverse before the European courts. Gentlemen of Citizens, how many more setbacks are we going to meet? Strasbourg, on the subject of the burning of portraits of the monarch, Schleswig-Holstein, Brussels, Scotland, one after another, and you are precluding yourself in taking us to this dead path, to this path of contempt for Spanish justice, to this path which only leads us to an international ridiculous umpteenth and which, moreover, this time will prove very dear to us. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we ask you: do you, who so much like to wave redhead, care so little about the image of Spanish justice in Europe? Are you so afraid of the agenda of distension with Catalonia that you want, that you want, that you continue to work for Spain to be a genuine democratic anomaly within the European Union? Ladies and gentlemen, if instead of spending the summer tearing up ties, throwing fake news, looking for sham, confrontation and noise, you would have sat down for a few moments to analyze the Catalan political context, the Spanish political context and the international political context would have realized that you are the last to defend the failed heritage of the Rajoy People's Party: the inheritance of confrontation, the inheritance of sham; the only, no, this morning we saw you with Mr José María Aznar and there we have seen strong coincidences. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the judicialization of politics and the politicization of justice. Where does this policy lead us? Our position, in the case before us, in the case of Llarena, we had the opportunity to expose her to the minister last week. In no case should the State assume the defense of Judge Pablo Llarena for the private acts attributed to him: the demonstrations carried out at a private conference at the opening of a car shop, a BMW branch. This defence assumed by the Government directly violates the principle of personal responsibility enshrined in that Constitution which you so like and which you are your adalides; that rupture of personal responsibility, which simply breaks is the independence of the judiciary and the observance of the principle of division of powers. But, as has already been said, amparo is granted following an extemporaneous request. It took two months to apply for this protection, when, as you well know, the law establishes a maximum of ten days, which again implies an unequal, arbitrary and discriminatory response; that double measuring rod to which the General Council of the Judiciary chaired by Mr Lesmes has already accustomed us. And, moreover, dearly, EUR 545 000; an absolutely exorbitant figure that, by the way, the State would have saved itself if Mr Lesmes had not decided in 2010 to terminate the insurance policy that the General Council of the Judiciary had to cover the costs of defence and representation of judges and magistrates in civil lawsuits such as the one we are dealing with. What could be done with that half a million euros long? Take a look around the judicial offices, the prosecution offices, the juvenile care centres, the centres for the victims of sexism, for the care of unprotected minors, for the detention of immigrants and they will surely come up with better destinations for that half a million euros long. We are asked by this House to support the members of the judicial career for the alleged harassment and pressure they have been suffering in recent times. Ladies and gentlemen, denying the possibility of public criticism of judicial decisions is a manifestation of the right to free expression, as established by the Constitutional Court in 2015. You don't like criticism of court decisions, you don't like criticism of Judge Lamela, Judge Llarena. They probably won't like the criticism of La Manada's sentence either, we have no doubt. They do not see social mobilizations as an attack on judicial independence. What really attacks judicial independence, for example, is that the People's Party Government listens deafly to the reasons of the Greek report of the Council of Europe, which year after year denounces the lack of measures to combat corruption and protect judicial independence. What attacks judicial independence? The preferential treatment of judges and magistrates in their private activities; their conferences, their private courses subsidized by law firms, by large companies, by lobbyists. What attacks the independence of the judiciary? Without going further, that the current president of the People's Party will be tried by four judges who ascended to the Supreme Court precisely on the proposal of the conservative majority of the General Council of the Judiciary, appointed by the People's Party itself. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary of the Kingdom of Spain does not need hooligans, it does not need hyperventilates, which can take care of itself. In order to guarantee their real independence, it is essential that the high judiciary be permeable to the ideas of democratic culture, to the values of freedom, equality, fraternity, feminism and coexistence. And make it clear that this Congress said yes to another majority, to end Rajoy's inheritance, which includes Mariano Rajoy's disastrous management in the Catalonian conflict. Let there be no confusion, let there be no attempt to isolate Spain from Europe because isolation, as you know well in this Parliament and as you know better in the Catalan Parliament, will only lead to political irrelevance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Moya. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Molinero Hoyos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on this non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, and for this it is necessary to bring a communiqué from the Government, but not the communiqué of 26 August, but that of 23 August, ratified on 24 August by the Vice-President of the Government. The statement stated that from the outset the State would be protected against instrumental demand, and that it would defend jurisdictional immunity and national sovereignty. Let us have, like all other legal operators and citizens, our reasonable doubts about the state's defence. And I speak in the past because, indeed, from 26 August onwards, the Government rectifies its position and assumes the defence of Judge Llarena. We said that we had our reasonable doubts because in the statement of 23 August, knowing the instrumental nature of the claim aimed at discrediting State institutions, they refused under the protection of Judge Llarena, against the reports of the General Council of the Judiciary and the State Advocate, claiming that his statements were in the private sphere of the judge. Amazing, isn't it, ladies? I ask: how would the Government defend Spain's judicial system and sovereignty without defending the work of the investigating judge of the case, Don Pablo Llarena? Was the Government not aware that the work of Judge Llarena in the investigation of the case is consistent with the principle of jurisdictional immunity and that the public and private parties cannot be separated? Was the Government also unaware that in an instrumental lawsuit seeking to undermine the image of the Spanish institutions at the international level, the private part of the jurisdictional party cannot be separated? If the State personifies itself and claims the principle of jurisdictional immunity, it is obliged to defend the investigating judge, because if it does not, it would fall into the trap of defending the coup and fugitives who were trying to extrapolate public and private concepts to confuse the Belgian court. What would have happened if Judge Pablo Llarena, the only defendant in civil proceedings, decided not to appear in the proceedings before the Belgian court? Would you have assumed that the sovereign proceedings of the Spanish State were subject to Belgian jurisdiction? We believe that the government did not ignore these questions, but that it was the price, the fee imposed by the coup, by the separatists, for the support of the motion of censure. And that is precisely what is worrying, that empty spaces of power be left, that functions be left to the separatists, that the coups invade that space by making good the slogan of given land, conquered land. [[Applauds]] For the above reasons, the People's Parliamentary Group presented a non-legislative proposal for the same purpose as the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, although much broader and with a vision that reinforces the principles of national immunity and sovereignty. Without prejudice to the transaction we have presented to Citizens, we have already announced that we will support it, Mr Girauta. We will support it for consistency because, ultimately, our non-law proposal also contains the points of yours. We will therefore support it through parliamentary and political coherence, and hope that in the future the principle of reciprocity with regard to our own. Ladies and gentlemen, a government which was born of a parliamentary accident, which was born of the independenceist, populist and pro-Earthist relics, was going to bring us enormous instability, insecurity and disgovernment as we have been suffering in recent months. There is not a single day when this Government will not give us an outburst, a rectification and a demonstration of inability to govern. The helplessness of Judge Llarena in putting the Government at the forefront of the harassment of Spanish jurisdiction and the absence of any of our sovereignty on the part of the Catalan separatists shows that this is the Government of misappropriation and the abandonment of functions, which is the most serious thing a Government can do. And the insecurity of having to pay these fees to these independenceists leads to the lack of rigour that the Government is presenting day after day in making urgent decisions on such important issues as jurisdictional immunity, which also extends to all groups. I'm done, Mr. President. How can we not strengthen democracy and coexistence if we allow our rule of law to be questioned at the national and international levels? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the debate the words of our deputy and general secretary of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro. I want to bring them in because they define the main lines of the People's Party in terms of territoriality. He said that the People's Party does not accept nationalist impositions or blackmail. The rule of law and national sovereignty are unnegotiable, we have repeated it a thousand times and we will continue to repeat it, because they are the pillars of our coexistence and on it we will not allow dictatorial projects to be built. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Molinero. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Girauta Vidal whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u95	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u96	All right, thank you very much. We will take this into account to vote on the initiative in its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u97	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the application of the moratorium to paralyse the departure of soldiers of troops and temporary marinery at the turn of forty-five years. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, last week we called on the Minister of Defence and, as a result of that inquiry, this motion is taking place today; this motion on an issue that I said last week that is of absolute priority for us, and I refer to the situation of the military troops of troops and navy who suffer from such discrimination when they are forty-five years old, which is being known as the covert ER of the Ministry of Defence. I know some people don't like me saying that, but I'd rather call things by their name. I am convinced that today the old bipartisanism is going to come up here to entangle with tricks, to talk about populism, of disloyalty, that I am responsible for climate change even, but in reality what we have been talking about since the moratorium, not the subcommission, the moratorium, a problem, as I have said, important, a problem that we have not created, because in these forty years United We can at the moment have not had government responsibilities at state level, so we cannot be accused of what the Socialist Party and the People's Party have done, or rather, what they have not done these years. As I was telling you, someone will try to talk about the subcommission. The subcommission meets next week, decisions will be made, solutions will be made, and they will have to be put into effect. And today, for our part, it is about ratifying the commitment to the Spanish military on what we did six months ago, because things have happened; now there is a new government and we want the military to make it clear that we said one thing six months ago and today we are going to say the same thing. We are not going to say that the law does not allow it, because we do read our amendment, we logically prepare it, and also before voting it one reads it, prepares it and knows whether it is legally possible or not. Or it could be something worse. In the case of the Socialist Party, which now says that it is very difficult legally and that it is being studied, but almost certainly not; that means that either you did not study the initiative or that you studied it, but it was more worth taking the photo and doing pure electoralism. In addition to blaming me all the time today for everything that's happened and for having happened in this country, I want you to look at the military and explain to them what has changed in these six months and why you don't have the same commitment to those military now. For us at that time the important thing was the workers, the people and today the workers and the people are still the workers. We're in the same place. Moreover, we had only proposed for your vote point one, which is the one specifically referring to that moratorium, but yesterday we ourselves tabled an amendment so that it would be the full text and that no one in the groups here would say that this was not the same as the vote. No, he's going to vote the same thing, he doesn't need a coma. [[The lady]] What is the Socialist Group doing? It presents us with an amendment with which I said, Diego, that is, it has absolutely nothing to do with what was signed. Here are the signatures of the deputy of Citizens, of the Socialist Group and of Unite Podemos, who also remember that it was Mr Limones who defended this initiative and did it very well. [[Showing a signed document]] I mean, we're going to vote the same thing because you can't take people for fools. Today I come here, I make a different document, I get along with people and I try to say that this is even better. We'll put it on Twitter so people can see it, compare it, and see how you've been fooled by this initiative. Therefore - and I am not going to spend more time - than today, as a result, everyone votes what they think is most appropriate. We voted in favour six months ago and today we will also vote in favour. The Socialist Group can do what we are accustomed to, in the opposition I say one thing, and when I come to the government I say that we cannot, we will study it, perhaps or I have a better formula. Don't hang up, Mrs Cantera, so come here and tell me everything you want, but above all, to them, who are the protagonists tell them what the non-deceptive situation is to solve this hidden ERE and to solve the lives of the workers, the military, men and women, of this country. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u99	Thank you very much. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want my first words to be of eternal gratitude and to be addressed to all the militants of the different bodies, scales and jobs that serve the Armed Forces every day, dedicating their lives to the fulfilment of their mission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] It is a mission that is perfectly defined in article 8 of our Constitution, that of all, an entire Constitution valid from its preamble to its final provision, and it is well to remember it because it seems that some parliamentary groups are only interested in the application of certain parts when appropriate. If you know our Constitution, I understand that you know what the mission of our Armed Forces is, so, ladies and gentlemen, we talk about national security and national defence, and when we talk about our military, we talk about this. Let me make this point, because it seems that these new parliamentary groups are forgetting what a state policy is, and that is what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, demagoguegies on this subject, zero. It was the Socialist Parliamentary Group and not another - I repeat, not another - that in the XI Legislature and in the current XII brought to this seat the situation in which the professional soldiers of troops and navy of forty-five years were in. It did so by proposing the creation of a subcommittee to address the present and future situation. Moreover, the Socialist Parliamentary Group chose the subcommission formula because, in its conception of defence policy as a State policy, it considered that all parliamentary groups should take part in the solution. Remember that at the time our proposal was unanimously supported, but the bliss was soon tarnished by the demagogy of those groups that put the polls ahead, the confrontation and the whole goes to fishing votes at any price, even at the cost of the hope of those who are affected. It's the 'everything' as long as we're voted on' that we're already used to. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group it is not all right, we are voted on or not voted on. Remember that the subcommission was created in February last year and not two years ago. - Mr. Delgado, check it out, please. It has been attended by numerous experts and specialists: military, civilians, representatives of national and international military associations, economists, geostrategists, political scientists, representatives of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Defence, the army and the Navy, trade unions, employers, the private security community, etc., etc. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, that they were all rapporteurs quoted and proposed by all the parliamentary groups. Have they not learned anything in the subcommission? Have you not heard them? Or is it that you have gone to the subcommission to do the paripé to look well before the professional military of troops and navy and to say what you want to hear? Either we approve of what we say or we get angry. That's not loyalty to them. That's not patriotism. That's cheating. All the rapporteurs, except one, have made it clear that an operational army with all its permanent troops is not possible, as it would affect the national security and defence of Spain. Should I remind you, Mr Delgado, of the words of your own rapporteurs? I recommend that you reread your statements, for I suppose they were proposed by your experience, and that you remember that we were told no to such a question. You, gentlemen of Podemos, spoke incoherently of patriotism a few days ago, doing electoralism and confronting the professional soldiers of troops and navy versus the employees of Cádiz, Ferrol, Seville, Huelva or Córdoba, as if they did not have families, while the next day, with the greatest of cynisms, they took the photo with the second; do not lose or do not win the votes of these on their land, Cádiz. At the same time, your parliamentary group in the Defence Committee uses arguments that it defends the military, while presenting initiatives for them to be expelled from 'territories that are invaded' in the words of one of its spokespersons or while they vote against amendments to the budgets that help to alleviate the situation. Their mouths are filled criticizing the patriotism of the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Minister of Defence, as if theirs were superlative to the rest. Here they show, in the opinion of this spokesman, a lack of respect for the rapporteurs who have devoted their time to coming to give us their expert opinion, as well as for the Members who work in this subcommittee, yes, including their own. You have raised an urgent question and this motion - which has also been amended as if the context had not changed - which, if adopted in the terms that your group is proposing, would render the subcommission's opinion ineffective and conditional. Have they explained this to the professional military of troops and navy and their associations or have they silenced him? All of this was done just one day after the Bureau and the Defence Spokesmen met, in which they did not open their mouths on this issue. When you saw that we decided - including you - that the subcommittee's opinion should be yes or yes before 30 September, you thought: Ups!, how to do more demagogy? And here we are. And they talk about loyalty and patriotism! To import so much the future of the professional military of troops and navy, although you did not come to the appearance of the Undersecretary of Defense last Friday, something apologetic. It was unfortunate that his replacement would be late when his presentation had already been completed; otherwise, he would know what measures the Government was already implementing. Some come from the management of the former government - everything has to be thanked and everything has to be said; to the king what is the king's, to ceasing what is the Caesar's and to God what is God's. [[Rumors]] Others come from the opinions of the groups that we have tabled in the subcommittee, including its own. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u101	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u102	I'm closing, Madam President. If they had been at the hearing of the Assistant Secretary of Defense, they would see that if the motion was approved in the terms in which it was presented, they would be without effect at the same time as it was adopted. What do you think? That is why, out of loyalty to the subcommittee approved unanimously in this House, with the experts and specialists who have come to it, with the opinions and conclusions that they have transmitted to us, with the ladies and gentlemen who have worked and are working on it and, above all and above all, with the professional military of troops and navy, we have tabled an amendment that has already told us that they will not support it. Don't count on us to make demagogy. We're talking about national security, the defense of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u103	Thank you very much. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Vazquez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u104	Thank you very much, President. I'll step in from the seat because I'll do it briefly. Introduces the Parliamentary Group of Podemos a motion with a double content: the suspension of the processes for the loss of the status of soldiers of troops and navy close to the completion of their long-term contract, which expires, as you know, to the fulfillment of forty-five years, and activate the reservists of special availability, to the REDs, which today have problems of labor insertion. This motion - as I have already said - is not going to be supported by our parliamentary group, because we believe it has a full impact on the work that is about to be completed in the subcommission for the troop and navy regime. When the subcommission was approved, it had two objectives: a first objective, improvements that should be made to shape the professional regime of the military of troops and navy, combining both the defence needs and the needs of stability, ways of promotion and facilities for the labor integration of the collective of troops and navy, and a second objective, the current situation of the model of troops and navy defined in Law 8/2006. This second point concerns those affected, where appropriate, by the breaches of the mandates of Law 8/2006, which - it is said - have resulted in the non-training of the personnel of troops and mariners who have graduated or are about to graduate and who are creating great difficulties for them to relocate to the world of work, once their contract has been completed. We understand that this is what the motion is talking about, one of the legs that form a substantial part of this subcommittee. We believe that next week the opinion will be over. That's why we're opposed, on a procedural issue. We do not think that we can go on to draw children out of this future agreement within the subcommittee on various problems of troops and seamen, one of them being the employment situation, and here it is intended to give a transitional situation but which could become a definitive one. We believe that the subcommission should adopt it, where appropriate. These are the reasons why we will not support this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u105	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u106	Deputies, deputies, president, a Republican speaking of defense and speaking of professional soldiers; a separatist for others dealing with a topic that might not be his business. But I have said many times that in employment situations, the Army is also our responsibility, it is our responsibility to all of us in this situation that we live in. Six months ago, it is true, we gave our support because we thought that when it was decided on 9 March 2001 to go to a professional army and in 2006 a law was made, the old structure of the Spanish Army was not taken into account, the enormous difficulties in its modernization and the constant non-compliances during all these years with these soldiers. We therefore consider that, beyond what the subcommittee says, there is an obligation to give these professionals a dignified way out. I took the license to take an old book from Julio Busquets, who was an independent MP for the PSOE, my professor in 1971. This book, from 1967, is called The Military Race in Spain. Julio Busquets, an optimistic man, says: probably in 1980 Spain will already be a developed country. What mission will the army then have, the intervention of the Armed Forces in the political life of the country, belonging only to underdeveloped countries? No, this will have gone down in history. The Armed Forces will be left with a clear mission, their territorial defence, and they will have an army adapted to the territorial defence. Julio Busquets died in 2001, and until 2010 the contribution that the Democratic Military Union had made to democracy in Spain was not recognized. I remind them that they were excluded from the Amnesty Act of 1977 by pressure from the old Francoist commands, they excluded them. Assassins, torturers, ETA - yes, ETA - were amnestyed, and the Democratic Military Union was not, and until 2010 it was not achieved. A few months ago a worthy military man, Colonel Luis Otero, died; very little transcendence, no ephemerides, exministrates, no ephemerides of those who sometimes lift up democratic feelings before the survival of what should not be. A few days ago, a few weeks ago, hundreds of former officers defended a dictator, a murderer, General Franco, and meanwhile, these soldiers are not yet what they would have to be for the Spanish Army, the best example of democracy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u107	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Leal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u108	Thank you very much, President. First of all, logically, I wanted to congratulate all the collectives who have developed this intense work in defense of the forty-five-year collective of troops and navy. Several points to be dealt with; let's take sides, Mr Delgado. First, conformity with the motion and criticism with the position, and I say it to you with the best of senses. Conformity, logically, because we have voted in favour and the text that is brought here is the same one that was voted on in February 2018, six months ago. We have always been defenders of all the rights of the military collective, the personnel of the Armed Forces and in this case of troops and non-permanent seamen. We even tabled the amendment which was the result of the transactional. Criticism comes because I understand that you can do something else. You, as the government's purple crutches, can do much more. They can include in these clandestine negotiations, what they do is prolong the agony of this legislature, the solution of this problem and not just to fry the Spanish to taxes, to increase public spending, the deficit, to control Spanish Radio Television, to alter the spirit of the democratic transition, etc. [[Applauds]] I will focus the debate. What is brought here, and I say it because it is not what I have heard from several speakers, is compliance with the Defense Commission's agreement of February 2018, and point. That agreement called on the Government to halt the departure of soldiers and sailors until the opinion of the subcommission on troops and machinery was implemented by the Government. That's the dictate and that's what was approved. It is therefore a precautionary measure, a measure that is in force until this occurs. In short, it is not institutional disloyalty with respect to the subcommission, on the contrary. What is a usurpation of functions is the amendment that has been formulated by the Socialist Party. And the most striking thing about this case is the Copernican turn of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which voted in favour of this same idea six months ago and now does not want to apply it. It has been in the Government for over a hundred days, it could have been applied, and it has not yet done so. I don't know why they did it, I'd like to be explained, and I hope it's not because they were in the opposition before and now they're in the government. They had a first chance the other day with the Assistant Secretary's appearance to return to coherence or to explain why they were not maintained in that coherence. They then wasted it and have wasted it today. During these hundred days, Minister, about 140 soldiers and sailors have gone to the streets for forty-five years. If this agreement had been implemented, it would have been avoided. What has been achieved with this? Put yourself at the same height as the People's Party. When it comes to bipartisanship, people often get offended, but that is the case, they have been put on the same level. The People's Party also failed to implement this measure and had another hundred days. Non-compliance has already been demonstrated: Section 16 and Section 21 of the Troop and Marinery Act, 2006. They're non-compliances that I'm not going to repeat because they're in the law. What happened? That until 2017, that is, until after eleven years, the measures to make this situation effective have not started to be implemented. What's going on? That there are a lot of people who won't get there. And what's the problem? The problem is that, ladies and gentlemen, our soldiers and sailors have given the best of their lives, even some have given their lives, and they are paid with this currency, contempt and ignorance. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that a government remains as useful as it is to the citizens, not as long as it has the necessary support, and it is clear that Mr Sánchez's government has been less useful than anything else. They've only beaten bandages and, at most, they've come to copy ideas from other parties, such as that of the citizens' outburst, a plagiarism, and bad. [[Applauds]] I assure you that the worst enemy to consolidate wealth and job creation is this kind of policy, and I just remind you that last week more than 6,000 employee jobs in Navantia, the defence industry, have been put at risk in an area as depressed as the province of Cadiz for unemployment. Here I would like to make a small letter to thank on my behalf, on behalf of my group and on behalf of thousands of families of workers for the mediation of the Royal House, which has been crucial to solving this problem. [[Applauds]] I shall now conclude, Madam President, by reiterating to Mr Delgado that he is urging his group to negotiate with the Socialist Party on the solution of this problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, call on the government to stop firing fireworks, smoke curtains and to solve the problem of navy and troops. They, the soldiers and sailors, have fulfilled, the state with them not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u109	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Candon Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on this matter. How strange it is to see this sudden military fever on the part of those who criticize military spending, ask for the closure of bases or try to veto the participation of the Armed Forces in public acts; or those who are against the military industry, as appropriate, here or there, as Podemos with the corvettes that Navantia will manufacture, and that thanks to them will be generated in the province of Cadiz, from which you, Mr. Delegate, are deputy, more than 6,000 jobs; thus, we do not have a speech here and another speech there. It is rare when we remember that the People's Party has been alone in recent legislatures in its support of the Defence Budget and Armed Forces personnel. And it should be remembered that those who now try to appear as defenders requested a few years ago to reduce the number of temporary troops to 50,000; that is, to put 31,000 soldiers and sailors on the street. Mr. Delgado, this motion is nothing but a toast to the sun, it's a posture, it's pure theater, and besides, forgive me, from the appreciation I have for you, from the bad. If they want to provide a solution, why did they not present a bill at the time? Because today there is a law that prevents you from doing what you propose. This problem is not new; it comes from the Law 8/2006 of 24 April of Troop and Marinery, whose article 10.1 says: The long-term commitment will end when the professional soldier of troops and marinery turns forty-five years old. Nor did your defense advisor, who was former JEMAD from 2008 to 2011, notice? Couldn't he have done something too? Or not? Are you going to continue to propose questions, motions, to pretend that you are doing something without really doing anything, like the self-amendment that you have brought here today to your motion? [[Applauds]] Last Wednesday, the minister - here present - said that simplistic messages had to be avoided, and said that the professionals of the Armed Forces must be respected and told the reality of what can be done. The pretty phrase and the headline we know how to do and say it all, but then we have to sit black on white to see the possible legal realities. That is, we must stop doing what PSOE, Podemos and Citizens have been doing these years: not telling them the truth of what can be done, releasing beautiful and headline phrases, creating a fiction and playing with the concerns of soldiers and sailors. It was up to you to see who was the most magnanimous, the most supportive, the most opportune, waiting for them to arise on your angelic hoops. When the three parties supported the PNL of Podemos who asked to suspend the terminations of contracts, they were unaware of the nationalist-populist carambola that was going to take one to the Moncloa. Bad luck, Minister. But they have occupied the chair and now they realize that they cannot fulfill what they promised to capture votes from disgruntled people. Welcome to the real world. As it is said in my land, you very 'lirili' and little'read him'. So a lot of talking and doing nothing. [[Laughter and applause]] Recognize that they then lied or recognize their inability to rule or both. I'm done, Madam President. The People's Party is where it has always been, maintaining coherence and institutional loyalty. We support the creation of a subcommittee - which, by the way, the Socialist Party proposed - because we believe that it is a serious issue, that it is a matter of state, because we believe that our military deserve respect and that we do not play with their illusions and their future. They're loyal to Spain. Let us be loyal to them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u111	I ask Mr Delgado Ramos whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u112	We accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u113	Thank you very much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON DEMOCRATIC REGENERATION MEASURES TO ENCOURAGE THE GOVERNMENT, BETWEEN THE SUPRESSION OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS. [[File number 173/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the democratic regeneration measures which the Government intends to promote, among other things, the abolition of political outbursts. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u115	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens who are following us, this afternoon we are going to proceed to a historic vote in this House. This afternoon the Members here will decide whether we want to remain privileged in the case of being investigated by the courts or whether we want to be Spanish citizens exactly the same as those who have chosen us to be here. This afternoon we decided whether we want to begin the suppression of the splintering, an anomalous figure, a figure of the past, a figure that in most countries around us no longer exists, or whether we want to continue to maintain a privilege before justice. And I say privilege because obviously the blockade that for forty years both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, the parliamentary majorities and those that have ruled Spain, have done so only responds to two things: one, the will to continue to appoint judges of the judiciary and those of its governing body - that's what you continue to maintain - and two, the stumbling block as a condition not to go to the natural judge, but to a special judge. Ladies and gentlemen, I say that this is an anomaly because in Portugal there is no such thing as the head of state alone, for no one else, for Members of Parliament or for other members of the Government; in Italy there is one, that of the head of state is the only one; in France, that of the head of state and that of the Government, but not for the members of the Legislative Chamber; in Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States there is not one. I am talking about countries that are homologable and referent in democracy, referent in separation of powers and referent in democratic quality and judicial guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, why do you continue to hold on to the strangulations? Basically because the beatings respond to a different treatment before justice. It is true that it is procedural law - there are no two penal codes, there is only one; it would only be missing - but there are different procedures. So what we want to put here today is clearly, concisely, calmly, but firmly, yes or no, to suppress the outbursts. It is very simple, there are stumbling blocks, as you know, for senators, deputies, members of the government, and also in the autonomous statutes there are stumbling blocks for the members of your Chambers. In short, in Spain there are about two thousand political outbursts and what we are considering today is the abolition of the outbursts for political positions in what refers to this House, which can ultimately make Congress and Senate, the Courts, as it is immediately to promote an express reform of the Constitution in order to suppress the outbursts. [[Applauds]] The motion also captures that momentum in the Autonomous Chambers. Citizens, for example, made it a condition for an investiture in Murcia to change the Statute of Murcia and abolish the outbursts. We did it in the statute and you have come to this House. We have pushed it in other communities, but it is also true that the Socialist Party and the People's Party very recently in Madrid prevented the suppression of the outbursts in the Community of Madrid; both parties, for this - as well as to control the judiciary - always go hand in hand. They also did so, by the way, in Castile and Leon the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and they are doing so where they can, because you want to continue to fuck, like a burning nail, this privilege. But I tell you one thing, Spanish society no longer tolerates what it tolerated; Spanish society no longer endures what it endured; Spanish society wants us all to be equal before justice, to be touched by a natural judge and to have a procedure enabled for any judge to judge us. Those who are opposed to the suppression of severances in the Socialist Party or in the People's Party claim that it is dangerous for a judge of first instance to be able to touch you, in short, a judge like the others. Can it really be argued that the basic judges are dangerous or suspect and that the judges of the Supreme Court are better? They're all judges. There is only one difference: that judges who touch you naturally do not choose you or choose you by the Council of Judicial Power, ultimately choose you for merit and capacity. [[Applauds]] So we have a cocktail dangerous to the equality of the Spaniards, a cocktail dangerous to those who want to trust in democracy, which is the control of the judiciary. Citizens are proposing, on the one hand, the abolition of such control and depoliticizing justice so that judges can elect the majority of the members of the judiciary - the Socialist Party, of course, opposes and the People's Party too - and, on the other hand, to end the strangulations, because one thing goes with the other. You want - you are obsessed with it - to continue to control the judiciary because that is where judges are appointed and chosen who will judge politicians. So what really worries them is who is going to judge the politicians who are prevaricating, who is going to judge the politicians who are committing embezzlement, who is going to judge the politicians who are committing cohecho, who is going to judge the politicians for illegal financing. That's what they're worried about. We therefore have a historic opportunity today. We will agree that if we go ahead today, if we give the green light to this process, to this political impetus undoubtedly from the Legislative Chamber, which is where this reform has to be made, we will have taken a step forward after forty years. No more armoring privileges, no more trying to have a different justice for those of us who are equal. Finally, I hope to count on the support of other political parties. I have heard other parties say in campaigns or interventions that they are in favour; others, such as the Socialist Party and the PP, it is true that they have never been in favour. In fact, last Wednesday the minister told us that it was very difficult to reform the Constitution, which they will ask for a report. There's a good thing about all this. I do not know whether it is the pressure of the polls or what the government is doing, but Mr Sánchez yesterday seemed to change his mind. I must confess that I believed it. I thought, either because of Mr Sánchez's ideas or because of internal pressure, that they had realized that society is calling for a change. What's the surprise? That the fraud lasts a few hours. In the afternoon, the members of the Government and the PSOE were already saying that corruption crimes continued to be harrowing. Man! [[Applauds]] I therefore call on the Socialist Party not to take the lead on the Spaniards. There are a lot of people who want your party to be suppressed, too, and I ask you not to be fooled. If you want to get into this car that you have always tried to stop, that of the suppression of strangulations, come up, welcome, we need majority in this House, in fact three-fifths, but I ask you one thing: do not let the Spaniards down, do not play with their illusion and hope to change things, because what you have proposed is a joke alongside the suppression of strangulations. It is necessary to abolish the outbursts, especially in cases of political corruption, which is where the problem arises. What, then, is the point of an express constitutional reform if we are to leave the outbursts in cases of political corruption? I ask you that if we are going to reform the Constitution, let us really do so and that no case of political corruption has a privileged treatment. We played it today, but I'll tell you what we're gonna do. We will vote in favour of abolishing that privilege. Today there can be a harakiri, the harakiri of the judicial privileges of politicians. Two things can be done today: tell the Spaniards that we want to continue having a special court or you can tell them with the green button, voting in favour, that we want to be the same as all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u116	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Xuclà i Costa is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious issue, and a leader or PhD student has to come up here and explain the historical origin of the drilling, the material scope of the drilling and how they are reformed. It will not be reformed by the adoption of a motion. Now I'm going to the PSOE. If we are to adopt a constitutional reform, I believe it is essential that the President of the Government should contact all political parties and not that we should be aware of a hundred-day analysis conference. Let's tell the truth. If this constitutional reform, which is what is worth and not the Citizens' motion, comes to a good place, it will certainly not be possible to do so with sixty days because the People's Party is putting forward reports. The People's Party, which is not a supporter of constitutional reform, as its leader said this morning, will vote in favour of this Citizens' motion for the sleepless battle between PP and Citizens for the right space. The PSOE, which wants to maintain the strenuous scope of the duties of parliamentarians - we too - will vote on this motion which, as you have just heard from Mr Rivera, tells you that you are connivant with corruption because you want to defend parliamentarians in the field of their competences, which is appropriate, to go up to this rostrum a leader and explain the origin and why of the strenuousness. And why, if someone opens the box on such an important subject, doesn't he talk about the original meaning of the stumbling blocks, about judges, the Armed Forces or the Royal House? Finally, we will never vote on a text that since the Congress of Deputies says what autonomous parliaments have to do with respect to the outbursts because that is the essence of self-government and the capacity for self-organization of each parliament. Many think that the motion of Citizens is a bodrio; many think that this is only possible through the pact between forces; some will vote it, we will abstain from participating in this theater of the bad. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Well!-Laughter.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u118	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Surely many of you hope that Euskal Herria-Bildu will say here today that, put to reform the Constitution, you should address many other issues of silence. Of course, it is, but I'm going to stick to the subject. Focusing on the specific question of the drilling, we want to make it clear: we are in favour of removing the drilling, but not those of a few but all, without exception, in the same way that we do not accept a reform in this matter that does not lead to nullifying the king's inviolability. If we seek to make all people equal before justice, let us make no exceptions and remove all existing stumbling blocks and privileges. Your proposal is therefore short, as is the government's announcement of reform, and today, in this motion, we will abstain. With regard to the second point of the motion, a little bit on the line of what Mr Xuclà said, if Citizens have a problem of lack of representation to make viable proposals in the autonomous communities, in their parliaments, is their problem, a problem that does not justify that from Madrid they want to tell the autonomous communities what they should do. I will tell you more: in the Basque Autonomous Community, a non-legislative proposal has already been approved in 2016 in favour of making the necessary legal amendments for the abolition of the embargoes. And it is that the world has not begun to turn when you have joined. Therefore, stop telling the different territories what to do and bet on the elimination of all hindrances if you want a vote in favour of your proposal. They could easily do so today with the admission of some of the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u120	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, this is a lame, small, toy motion, it's almost, almost a motion from Miss Pepis. I'll explain myself. In their explanatory statement they say that there are zero holes in Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States, one in Italy and Portugal, ten in France and they continue to say that here there are a lot of holes, namely almost 250 000; 232,000 Security Forces and Corpses and 17 600 politicians, judges, prosecutors and the royal family. And I've said about the little motion, Miss Pepis, because in her motion they limit that suppression to only 2,000 politicians. Why are you not more ambitious, acting like advanced countries and leaving it at zero, for no one, neither for the king nor for anyone? Why aren't you ambitious? Why don't they extend it to judges and prosecutors, the Royal Family? The Basque Group has tabled an amendment, accept it; it is a much more ambitious amendment than its initiative. [[Rumors]] It's a classic, I know it; it's a classic Mr. Rivera and Mr. Cantó, doesn't your party want the equality of the Spaniards? Why don't you want equal strenght? Why doesn't he want us all to have or not to have strangulations? You all live, you all Christians. I'm done. This is an incomplete, unambitious, fearful motion. That great tweet that we all repeated, his tweet, would look much better if I said, "Going through Spain, I only see Spaniards; I see Spanish far away and Spanish without far away." [[Laughter]] Mr Rivera, two things can be done today, as you have said: to leave this motion to take or to accept the amendment by the Basque Group to abolish all the hindrances. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u122	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u123	Thank you very much, President. We take into consideration a motion by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the abolition of so-called political outbursts or, rather, what we call political outbursts, an expression that we do not understand because all the outbursts of our system respond to a legislative policy decision that, in general, protects certain public officials and officials from actions that could undermine the functions that constitutionally are entrusted to them through the abusive use of complaints and determining for this purpose that, when they intervene, they are seen by collegiate and higher-level judicial bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the finalist reason for the encroachments in our legal system, either in the Constitution or in the Organic Law of the Judiciary or in the basic institutional norms of the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, all the outbursts of our system are a legislative policy decision, and that is why we consider that all outbursts are political, and they are political, because they are not essential to ensure that those functions constitutionally granted to those public servants are not disturbed by the presentation of complaints against them, and the facts show this to us. Germany has no stumbling block and neither the United Kingdom nor the United States of America. Other countries have very few; I will not quote them because they have already been quoted. In Spain, the political decision to shut down public servants amounts to 280,000. Some - it has already been said - hold political positions of appointment and/or elected by the citizenry, 2000. Others are members of the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office -15,000 - and also of the General Council of the judiciary. Others belong to the security forces and bodies of both the State and the autonomous communities with powers for the protection of persons and property and for the maintenance of public order, 230 000. Total: 280 000, although not all to the same degree and the rule that excludes them is the same neither in nature nor in relevance. Our order at the highest level - the Constitution and the statutes - has determined that the presidents and other members of the central and autonomous governments and the members of their legislative chambers are to be held before the criminal chambers of the Supreme Court and their respective superior courts. Thus, as the Constitutional Court interprets in its judgment 22/1997 for the President of the Government and other members of the Government - it could be extended to all parliamentarians - it does so in order to protect them generally from actions that could undermine their constitutional and statutory functions through the abusive presentation of complaints that confuse political responsibility with criminal law. Your Honor, this sounds to me. Could they be deleted? Of course. The constitutional legislator and the statutory body are not subject to conditions. Constitutionally, there are countries that do not have them, and it must be said that their functions are not impaired. For these groups, the Constitutional Court has also pointed out that, in the light of what has just been said, they are neither a privilege nor a unique right, since the Constitution - it says - protects its autonomy and independence through a jurisdictional body in order to bring to justice its criminal responsibility by establishing a differentiated legal treatment because the subjective, qualitative and functional situation is differentiated in the Constitution itself, and I would add: and in the statutes of autonomy as basic institutional norms. The Constitutional Court continues to say - in the light of what I have just heard in this Chamber - that these cases do not break the principle of the ordinary judge established by law either, since - he points out - it is the same Constitution and statutes that do that function of the law to determine the criminal cases against those elected and appointed officials, the central and autonomous governments and their legislative chambers. There are other cases without that constitutional and statutory protection, those established by the Organic Law of the Judiciary, and which refer, as I have already said, to judges, judges, members of the General Council of the Judiciary, prosecutors and security forces and bodies, and more recently, I have to remember, in mid-2014, how they joined the Supreme Court as they did, in conjunction with the Organic Law of Abdication of King Juan Carlos I and taking advantage of the process of amendments that only had the support of the People's Party and some other very minority group, they also joined the consort of the King or Queen, the Prince of Asturias and his consort, and the King or Queen who had abdicated and, everything to be said, not only for criminal cases, such as the rest of the defendants, but also for civil cases. We would ask ourselves, could all these stumbling blocks be suppressed? Of course, even without amending the Constitution because the ordinary legislator is not conditioned and in many countries in our environment would be unimaginable. What we do not understand is that here, in the motion, we do not consider this possibility and indeed that which affects precisely those contemplated by the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, those precisely to which the most relevant norms of our order most want to protect. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not understand it, and that is why we do not share it. I'm finishing up, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u124	You have to finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u125	Fifteen seconds. Is it reasonable, we wonder, to keep these figures of stifling, including the inviolability of the person of the king in his non-institutional acts? We will support any reform within this House that would entail the abolition of all hindrances without exception, as in the countries that are cited as the most exemplary. For other political marketing operations do not count on our parliamentary group. Thank you very much, President, for your generosity.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u126	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group wants to approach this motion of the Citizens' Group constructively, seeking the maximum possible agreement among all political groups, in line with what the majority of citizens demand, in line with our programmatic resolutions, in line with what has been argued by the Minister of Justice, Dolores Delgado, and in accordance with the courageous initiative announced by our Secretary General and President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, which undoubtedly represents a great step forward. As you know, we agree substantially with the operative part of the motion and, convinced of its justification and necessity, we are firmly determined to carry out immediately this reform of articles 71.3 and 102.1 of the Constitution in order to abolish the severance of deputies, senators and members of the Government, except in the strict exercise of their functions - strict - and during the term of office. The Socialist Party has incorporated this measure of democratic regeneration into its programmes since 2015, forming part of our proposal for constitutional reform as well as the drive for statutory reforms. As you have recalled, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, in the frustrated 2015 government agreement, we have assumed the revision of the elections - I quote literally - as a fundamental measure and we also include it, among many other issues relating to democratic and institutional improvements, in the resolutions of our 39th Federal Congress, and we are doing so, as clearly demonstrated by the statutory reforms under way in Murcia, Cantabria and the Canary Islands. I would like to recall precisely that in Murcia, for example - you have been wrong - the initiative was of the Socialist Party. But if we are substantially in agreement with the operative part of the motion, we do not share certain arguments that they use in their justification, which we understand wrong and deeply demagogic. Let's put things in place, Mr. Rivera. It is not rigorous to argue that the suffocation in all its aspects is without any more privilege, I am dealing with favor in the end, even if it is true that this is mainly perceived by Spanish society. Stuffing is a prerogative - a prerogative - granted with better or worse fortune as a means of balance between powers and as a guarantee against the possible excesses of the popular accusation. This figure, it must be remembered and omitted whenever they speak of it, does not exist in many of the countries that have mentioned but also has its negative face, since the special forum deprives itself of the possibility that a criminal sentence may be reviewed by a different body and this, you will recognize, implies an intense limitation of the fundamental right to the double degree of jurisdiction, even if it is a reasonable limit, as our Constitutional Court has held. But, look, this is not normally said, this deprivation can also affect those individuals who are not caught and charged in the same cause, as can be deduced from the provisions of the Criminal Prosecution Act for the joint prosecution of related offences. On the other hand, the suppression of suffocation cannot be based on the invocation of an alleged loss of judicial independence, as you reiterate with sophisms that they are absolutely intractable, since each judicial body, as has been recalled here, apart from the process of its formation, is uniquely in its function the bearer of a power of the State, the power of jurisdiction, a power that is distinct, independent, neutral, supra-parties, only subject to the Constitution and the law which gives it the various and necessary guarantees of independence. It seems, Mr Rivera, that you have very little confidence in our higher judicial bodies. It is also wrong, in our view, to argue that severance contradicts the right of the ordinary judge predetermined by law, since the ordinary judge, as the Constitutional Court reiterates in its doctrine, is always the judge belonging to the ordinary, true and impartial jurisdiction; that is, that it is not special, that it is not exceptional, that it has not been established ad hoc for a specific dispute, but created previously by law, that it has jurisdiction. You, gentlemen of Citizens, talk a lot about democratic regeneration, but at the time of the truth you have been incoherently supporting the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Group, and you have even voted against the motion of censure, an essential piece and fundamental starting point for political regeneration, since your main justification has been to respond once and for all with determination to the intolerable systemic corruption established within and in the People's Party environment, as declared by a court ruling. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you are very filled with the mouth of regeneration in front of the gallery. They will not deny me that this measure has much to do with the evolution of the autonomous state, and yet they have gone opportunistically, giving a doorway and with a politically child's excuse, of the Commission of Study for the Evaluation and Modernisation of the Autonomous State, which is the instrument that we have all equipped ourselves in this House to study these and many other issues of democratic improvement. Be consistent. You are placing yourself more and more on the right and that leads you to sustain and proclaim a regenerationism of more populist and electoralist than sincere and effective, and that is why you commit the demagogy of being identifying things that cannot be identified. You identify the reference to the strict sense of the function that is fulfilled by enabling you to be connivant with political corruption. You have understood absolutely nothing of what our institutions mean, Mr Rivera. We, in order to be effective and in constructive convergence, have proposed an amendment to improve your motion. Constitutional reform as you ask, yes, immediately, and we invite, that we do not urge, that the assemblies of the autonomous communities do the same through the respective statutory reforms to achieve the necessary constitutional coherence at the state and autonomous levels. Finally, let me ask you a question because I think it is important to be able to talk about all the regeneration measures at once and with sufficient calm. When is the return to the Commission for the assessment and modernisation of the autonomous state, Mr Rivera? Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u128	Mrs Escudero Berzal has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of our coexistence and prosperity in our country lies in the Spanish Constitution, in each and every one of its rules, and also in the consensus, in the agreement of all political formations to form and advance as a modern, free, equal and just society. Today, when the Spaniards have a lot to worry about after more than a hundred days of socialist disgovernment, when the independence challenge is totally out of control, we attend an interested debate for some political formation, but not interesting for the Spaniards. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group believes that social values and the stability of the rule of law themselves make it possible to address a reform of the provisions of our legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, words are very important and their misuse can lead to error, sometimes out of ignorance and sometimes in the spirit of causing certain reactions to knowledge of deception. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between privilege and prerogative. While the prerogative is an advantage to exercise a position or a job, the privilege is the concession that makes someone else an advantage, thus giving him a certain exceptional character. Ladies and gentlemen, my group wishes to make it very clear that we are not faced with any privileges. Lords of Citizens, Spain is a social and democratic state of law and in a state of law, ladies and gentlemen, privileges do not belong. [[Applauds]] The Constitutional Court has on numerous occasions ruled that privileges such as severance, inviolability or immunity are not personal privileges, but rather that this is a differentiated legal treatment to subjective, qualitative and functional situations differentiated by the Constitution itself. They are functional prerogatives, ladies and gentlemen, neither personal nor arbitrary, which find their raison d'être in protecting the exercise of certain public functions from misuse of criminal proceedings. This is not said by the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, it is said by the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. Stuffing is not a personal privilege. It cannot be confused with a privilege, since the notes of inequality and exceptionality do not compete. We are all tired now, ladies and gentlemen, of this false populism that they love to preach only to confuse and divide Spanish society and to break confidence in politics and politicians. Citizens, when you were not here, it was passed in the Law on the Control of Financial Economic Activity of the Political Parties to make a commitment to limit the strangulations, and so the Socialist Party and the People's Party assumed with that law. That was done when you weren't here, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rivera, there was life in 2015 without you being here in Parliament. You weren't here. [[Applauds]] So far our legal argument. The People's Party carried in its electoral program the reduction of strangulations and we included it in the investiture pact with Citizens, but not because it is a privilege. We are aware that the very evolution of society and the strength of institutions require a calm and constructive rethinking of these prerogatives, but we cannot share the fact that the 1978 Constitution and the legislator later incorporated privileges for the political classes. Mr. Rivera, you don't want to be the same as the Spanish. He said he wants all Spaniards to be the same, but you don't want to be the same as the Spaniards. You just want to take away a three-way prerogative, because there's strangulation, inviolability and immunity. Why do you just want to be a little bit like the Spaniards? Why, along with suffocation, does not call for the elimination of inviolability and immunity? You don't want to be the same as the Spaniards, but you want to continue to have privileges. But this is very populist. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have to be serious and do things the way we have to do them. We cannot announce an express reform of the Spanish Constitution at this point and it is already, because the modification of the Magna Charter is not anything. Making a change to the Spanish Constitution requires a majority that Mr Sánchez has obviated as a minor thing. Addressing the reform of the Constitution with such frivolity and lightness is not serious, except to cover the shortcomings of a president, the disgovernment in these months and the continuous rectifications and resignations. Reform the Spanish Constitution, remove Franco from the Valley of the Fallen, go now to the property of the Church, the bombs we sell that do not kill Yemenis; all this is anti-politics, ladies and gentlemen. All this is what generates so much distrust on the part of citizens in their representatives. Because of the need to rigorously address this reform of drilling and, above all, to ensure that it is carried out consistently throughout the legal system, as well as the adequate protection of the free exercise of the public functions that the drilling seeks to protect, my group has tabled an amendment of improvement where we propose that the reform should start with the request for reports to the collegiate bodies that have the best technical competence to expose the current regime of drilling and its possibilities for reform. It is a matter of ensuring that any procedural changes are made with the appropriate legal guarantees. The Government was also urged to promote the creation of a paper within the Constitutional Commission of Congress to achieve the greatest parliamentary consensus and, at the same time, parliaments and autonomous governments were urged to do the same. With this amendment the People's Parliamentary Group - and I am finishing, ladies and gentlemen - is demanding time, dialogue, rigour and consensus in addressing a constitutional reform. Of course, my group would like to make it absolutely clear that we reject the PNV proposal on the elimination of the king's inviolability. Ladies and gentlemen, the Crown is not touched. [[Rumors]] By the way - and I finish - what I have just put to you is in line with what the Secretary of State for Territorial Policy, Mr Sánchez Amor, put to you in the debate on a motion by UPyD which is almost accurate to the one presented today. The Socialist Parliamentary Group called for reflection on this issue in a coordinated and coherent framework of institutional reforms, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group abstaining from supporting 'an arbitrary and short-term patch'; and I say this in between. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot forget that the express reform of the Constitution wants to be done by Mr Sánchez with those who have announced that they want to end it, with those who want to break with the spirit of transition. I'm done. Citizens, you may not accept our amendment, but you know perfectly well that this is the way forward to reform the Spanish Constitution: rigour, consensus and study. Will they reform the Spanish Constitution without the report of the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary and the General Commission of Codification?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u132	It has to end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u133	Are you guys gonna be able to do this? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u134	Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor in the position-setting round by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u135	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I say that our group is going to abstain and that we do not want to participate in a new smokescreen. In fact, it is not a big debate today that sparks the Citizens' motion on the elimination of political outbursts, no matter how much they sell it as a package of measures for supposed democratic regeneration. They do not deceive us, but democratic regeneration what this proposal does is a simple measure of institutional reform of the State itself. Let's not mix the concepts. The concept of democratic regeneration is much deeper and much more complex and is associated with the idea of a transition to a model of participatory democracy, of direct democracy, ultimately an advanced democracy. This really is a democratic regeneration, from the bottom up. Today this would be a great debate if we bravely faced the great challenges that test the very quality of Spanish democracy - here they would find us, sure they would find us here - challenges that the State is not seeking a political solution and instead acts in a reactionary, clearly repressive way. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u136	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u137	I am referring, for example, to the fact that rights and freedoms such as those of expression, assembly and thought are being violated at this time, with the presence of numerous reprisals between prisoners and exiles, or also to the fact that 80% of Catalans, independenceists and non-independenceists are currently calling for a referendum on self-determination. And how does the state face this fully democratic demand of Catalan society? Represses her, she has no other answer. Therefore, do not talk to me about democratic regeneration, be more modest and perhaps talk about institutional reform of the state, a reform that - do not forget - should always ensure respect for democratic values. In any case, we can discuss whether or not this motion is appropriate in the face of the need to face the real challenges of democracy, but let us focus on the issue of reforming the political agenda. We could all agree to delete a legal formula that society perceives as a privilege. In fact, our group does not accept the harassment that protects corrupt politicians, this perverts the same initial idea of harassment, but it does not accept the harassment that protects the inviolability of the head of State, nor does it even accept the harassment that protects judges and prosecutors, nor does it accept the harassment that protects the State Security Forces and Bodies from which proceedings. Therefore, the application has to be to the set of drills, which are many. In any case, the question is: What has the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell, done for? You're welcome. [[Applauds]] I repeat: What has it been for the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell, to be taken away? Absolutely nothing. What about Vice President Oriol Junqueras? You're welcome. What about Councilman Raül Romeva? You're welcome, absolutely welcome. Today, together with other Members of Parliament, they are incarcerated for precisely exercising deputies and fulfilling a democratic mandate, a democratic mandate! And where's the drill here? He hasn't been seen, he's not. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. It gives the impression that there is a will to ensure that strangulation is reserved only for the head of State, the judiciary and the security forces, a dome of untouchables that may shield the very structure of the State and the interests of the power groups that sustain it. No, it's not that, ladies and gentlemen, or everyone or anyone. And if it is to be eliminated today, it must be in order to permanently eradicate the perversion of its use as a cover for corruption. Otherwise, we are still far from the so-called democratic regeneration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u138	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u139	Thank you, President. Mr. Rivera, history is not made because you come up here and puffed up your chest tell us that by pressing a green button we are in history. History - write this down - is done by the peoples. It is the people who make history, and the Spanish people have long said that we are all equal before the law, whether we wear a crown or not. [[Applauds]] Therefore, perhaps today to talk about regeneration you should have let yourself be seen by the appearance of a former president who had a lot to do with that issue of corruption and regeneration. In any case, hearing him speak we do not stop asking ourselves - astonishment, that is - if we are being fooled a little bit, because he speaks Citizens of democratic regeneration when you voted to keep M. Rajoy and his party in government that, according to a judicial order - and we can't, a judicial order - is an organization for delinquency, it doesn't seem very consistent, the truth. Finally, after Mr Prendes told us all the initiatives last Wednesday, today we have two proposals for an agreement on a measure which the Government has already announced, which is the abolition of the embargo by constitutional means, a solution which is clearly insufficient for us. We do not think that regeneration is enough because we would have liked to move towards an agreement, for example, for the protection of whistleblowers in the fight against corruption, for the suppression of pardons for those convicted of corruption offences, for the regulation of lobbies - of course - for the suppression of revolving doors, and even for the depoliticization of the Office of the Attorney-General of the State, and we also find it insufficient to talk about a constitutional reform only for the break-ins. It seems that for some, of those who are called constitutionalists, the Constitution has become a wild card or a patch that gives them the same for a break as for a breakup. So far, constitutional reform has only been activated when it has proved useful to remedy the evils that have plagued a minority, a minority with such great power that it has even allowed us to supplant our national sovereignty. That is why, to date, only the stars and seats that make up this Chamber have been aligned on one occasion, and it was, as you will all recall, to amend Article 135 of our Constitution as part of an infamous reform that revealed the situation of defencelessness faced by the social majority of our plurinational country, which has since been kneeling before the dogma that governs the conscience of that minority, which is savage neoliberalism. And although today we are separated from those seven years and more than EUR 60 billion in cuts, there are still many of us who have not been able to forget that desolation. Therefore, it is so important to clarify at this point, above all to political formations with as little street as Citizens, the events that have brought us here. Just like that, doing a little memory, we can remember where everyone was at such a hard time and who they were with. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u140	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u141	I tell you who we were with; we were in the squares and in the streets demanding a real democracy, strong and capable of facing the interests of that minority and guaranteeing those of the social majority. And you know what we call that? Constituent process. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, that change that the social majority was demanding, fortunately, at a hard time, at a push, has come. Right now the numbers are starting to give to start talking about expansive budgets from the point of view of social spending, to unlock legislative initiatives such as that of the housing of the PAH - which we have had today - or measures aimed at restoring access to justice for the victims of Francoism. If all that is possible is thanks to the fact that these transformations have first taken place out there, in our streets and in our squares. Today we are talking about constitutional reform and there must be, but this time, ladies and gentlemen, in favour of the social majority, not just for the sake of strangulation. We understand that in order to truly regenerate political life in Spain, measures must also be inserted in the constitutional framework, such as reversing the path of cuts inaugurated until the amendment of Article 135, guaranteeing once and for all in our Title I our social State through the shielding of public services and the universal and free nature of our health and education. We must also talk about that principle that we have said that justice is the same for all. We must therefore talk about the inviolability or impunity of the Crown as it appears in Title II, and - of course not - about our territorial model. That's all we have to talk about. Of course, all these measures must be submitted to a referendum so that it is the citizens who always have the last word. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u143	The challenge that we have ahead for this really necessary regeneration - I am finishing, President - requires something that Citizens, the presenters of this motion, have shown completely unknown as a party, which is political responsibility and height of sight. And to Mr Sánchez's government we only want to give him a warning, from respect and humility. Comply, for God's sake, with the social majority this time, because remember that political forces rise and fall, as they are ratified or undraw in their characteristic features. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u144	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Rivera Díaz whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u145	You will vote on your terms, Madam President. I don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u146	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the symptoms of the deceleration of the Spanish economy. [[File number 173/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u147	Let us move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the motion following an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the symptoms of the slowdown in the Spanish economy. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Ruano García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u148	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is my first speech from the rostrum and I want you to know that I am very proud and honoured by it. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, the present socialist government is losing its credit and credit at a galloping pace. His contradictions, rectifications and bandages, as well as the already famous probe balloons of his minister, do nothing but produce distrust, uncertainty and discomfort in our society. It is true that sometimes it is good to rectify, but when a government permanently rectifys, we are faced with an incompetent, irresponsible government with a lack of management with consequences that unfortunately we will pay all the Spaniards. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, how can a government that says one thing in the morning and another in the afternoon inspire confidence? Have you not learned that giving rise to mistrust is the worst thing that can be done in the economy? Or do you think it is a coincidence that, after a hundred days of government, there has been a flight of more than EUR 11 billion from the stock exchange, which is by the way the worst accumulated index figure of all European stock exchanges? Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time of deceleration and no one is denying it, except you, and we are really concerned about this. Is it not true that the latest OECD report already shows that the Spanish economy is cooling faster than the rest of our European partners? Mr Socialists, everyone is already aware of their shortcomings, of their repeated and stubborn will to breach the deficit, of the lack of respect for the agreements of the European Union, of the threat of tax increases for populist purposes, of their intention to dismantle consolidated economic reforms that allowed us to get out of the crisis, of the lack of control of the prices of basic services with perverse effects on inflation. But the biggest factor contributing to the slowdown is the lack of confidence generated by this government, not only because of its contradictions and rectifications, but above all because of all the mortgages that have been forced to pay communists and independenceists, and also because of its continued populist discourse. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist bench, the citizens on foot are once again concerned. They don't understand macroeconomic data, but they do understand that fruit goes up, that gasoline goes off, that this month they'll pay for some of the most expensive light receipts in history. They also know that they will pay more interest on their loans and feel that there is less joy in the economy. This worries us. And it is that we, ladies and gentlemen, do believe in budgetary discipline, like any responsible person. What parent is listening to us right now, in the face of a reduction in their income and greater uncertainty, decides to spend and get more in debt when they know that their loan interests are going to rise and that the economic situation will worsen? It's just that this doesn't occur to anyone, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is that you are spending by nature, you carry it in your DNA, in your ideology, as if public money were nobody's, as the Vice-President of the Government scandalously claims. [[Applauds]] They will say that it is the cycle, that the wind has run out of tail, but the reality is that all their governments have ended up in a very serious economic crisis, in which two fundamental factors have never been lacking: an uncontrolled public deficit and a brutal increase in unemployment; and, moreover, today we can say that they have again put in place their powerful machinery of destruction of confidence. Because, do you remember what happened the last time you looked the other way? Simply, that the welfare state, which they so claim to defend, ended up liquidating it and produced the greatest inequalities in the history of our democracy. Yes, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of some of the consequences of your economic policies in your last Government: they frozen pensions, eliminated basic social benefits, suspended the public offer of employment, paralyzed state public investment, lowered civil servants' salaries, and, worst of all for a party called a worker, left almost four and a half million unemployed. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, be sensible, that is all we ask of you. Let us continue with the reform process, let us continue along the path of fiscal consolidation, reduce our debt, encourage savings, help economic actors to produce more and better than others in order to gain competitiveness, reduce taxes to those who generate employment and, above all, continue to centralise our economic policy with job creation. Madam President, I'm done. Spain is an extraordinary country. We are a responsible, mature nation, and we know that when it has been necessary, with effort and sacrifice, we have come forward. But, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, please don't complicate our lives, don't complicate the lives of the Spaniards. Eccentricities in other areas of politics are opinionable, they have a pass, but not in the economic sphere; they have consequences on people, on families, on their vital life projects. Please do not pursue inappropriate economic policies at this time and less for electoral or blackmailist reasons. Do not let down all the burden of the blackmail of communists and independenceists, who hate and want to destroy Spain, on the backs of the middle classes, the autonomous, the families and the workers. Really, don't complicate our lives again. I know that you, in your reply, will do as always, look elsewhere, blame the People's Party and the international situation; you will have other scapegoats, you will want to talk about the goods of the Church, of Franco, today touch the stumbling blocks, creating smoke curtains when you are interested. But, ladies and gentlemen, something has changed in our society; the Spaniards are not fools, we have memory; they will not confuse us again as they have done in the past; we no longer believe in the green shoots or the Champions League. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, without alarm, but with determination, you can count on us, but rectify, maintain our reforms, be a serious and credible government and be loyal to Europe. I am not saying this for us, ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this for the good of Spain and of all the Spaniards. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruano. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Roldán Monés is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u150	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the economy in the near future we are facing something like a perfect storm. On the one hand, we have a very delicate legacy of the crisis, we are still the country of Europe with the highest deficit, we have a debt of close to one hundred percent of GDP and we continue to have record unemployment rates in Europe of around 20 %, and it gives the chance that as a result of the insufficient reformist ambition first of all of the People's Party and, as is increasingly evident also of the Socialist Party, growth is starting to slow down and we have very clear signs of deceleration. Moreover - and this is the most serious of all - we have a government that basically does not have a sufficient majority to make the structural reforms that the country needs. Let me give you four facts very quickly about how the economy is doing and what are those rates of deceleration that are increasingly worrying and dangerous. The worst is the retail consumption indicators. Between June and July we have an annual fall that is the highest in recent years. This is also reflected in fuel consumption. Also, the confidence indices, which are the best predictor on economic growth, are falling, are at the lowest point in the indicators of the last two years. Similarly, we have a breakdown of tourist stays, tourism is also at its lowest point in recent years; and logically the drop in economic activity is also reflected in employment, social security affiliations have reached their lowest point, with a fall of 203 000 workers in August, the largest drop in the last ten years. In addition, there is a macroeconomic environment for the future that is not particularly positive. We have the ECB that will probably be up in a short time; we have several populist governments in Europe, for example Italian, which means safe political risk; we have the Catalan question, which I do not know if you will be able to handle too well, and we have, as I say, a series of storms on the horizon that are a little delicate. It is precisely in this complex, difficult environment that it is more important than ever to have a stable Government capable of achieving a broad majority, capable of addressing the structural reforms that the country needs. So far we know that President Sánchez has some very nice sunglasses, we know he likes jogging, we know he has a puppy, but I still have no idea what the economic project of the country Mr Sánchez is presenting. [[Applauds]] We do not know what your educational programme is, we do not know what you intend to do with the highest school failure rate in Europe, we do not know what job reforms you intend to do to reduce the highest precariousness in Europe and we do not know what innovation policies you have. The only thing he has done with the institutions has been to colonize them again - exactly as the People's Party did - of amiguetes, being the institutions and human capital the two most important drivers of economic growth. Therefore, a bad perspective. I insist, we have a very bad inheritance, we have very bad prospects for an international environment and we have an incapable government, which, although I would like - which I do not want - even if I was reformist - which is not - is incapable of reforming because it has eighty-four Members, an insufficient majority. We are therefore going to support the motion of the People's Party, insisting on structural reforms, insisting that they stop performing shows and start addressing the structural reforms that this country needs before it is too late. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u152	Thank you, President, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today the motion following the inquiry that the People's Group made to the Minister of Economic Affairs last week, and I have to say that listening to the inquiry last week I had an interest in seeing what the People's Party could have done in economic matters that it had not done in the last six years. Listening to both today's motion and the question of the other day and seeing the three points they bring in the motion, I must say, first of all, two things. The only doubts about the Spanish economy are generated by those who send alarmist messages about data that are not founded, and those are you; moreover, they continue to fall into the same mistakes that they made in the past: they still do not think about the majority of the citizens of our country, those who have suffered the most and made more sacrifices during the crisis and those who have seen the economy of this country grow and its economic situation does not improve. [[The lady]] I'm going to focus on your motion. As regards the first point, there is no doubt about Spain's ability to meet the deficit targets under the Stability and Growth Pact; in fact, the Kingdom of Spain will exit the excessive deficit procedure by the end of this year and the government will not increase the government deficit, it will be reduced compared to 2017. That is to say, we are meeting the objectives on the basis, on many occasions, of the perspectives that you had in the Government itself. For the next fiscal year, what does the current government propose? A nine-tenth correction on the actual closing of this year's deficit, which is going to be 2.7% -2.6-, and we're going to reduce it by nine-tenths. The only thing this government has done has been an exercise of accountability and transparency in communicating realistic data on the basis of the deficit generated by the budget execution of a budget that you brought to this very House. That forecast is in line with what the AIReF and other national and international agencies have been announcing for months, announcing that the 2.2 deficit you predicted was totally unreal. With their refusal to recognize the reality of the figures in their previous stage of government, they only generated mistrust and predictions that they would never finally meet, and perhaps that is the way you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, have to believe in budgetary discipline, which is systematically not to comply with it. With regard to the second point, the real GDP of the Spanish economy remains on an expansive path, 0,6 % inter-quarterly in the last quarter, despite what has been said here about the persistence of sources of uncertainty at the external level. Today we have also seen new protectionist escalation ads, but that's what we have to deal with. Growth moderation is not a novelty this year. Since the peak of 2015, when we reached 3.6, it has been decreasing, and that is something normal and consistent both for the time of the cycle we are in and for the forecasts you made in your previous stage of government. In this context, what the Government is doing is to assess the different tax measures to increase collection and thus take measures to promote social cohesion, boost growth in the medium and long term and tackle the serious imbalances that our country has, such as inequality or precariousness. Those are populist purposes, as you have defined them, but they still don't understand anything if they call them that. Improving public revenues is therefore crucial to closing the public deficit and curbing our country's high debt level. And here I want to make a point. It has been appointed to homologable countries, to countries in our environment and it should be added that Spain has 8 points less public tax revenue on GDP than the euro area average; it would also be interesting to converge towards such harmonisation. With regard to the third point of his motion, they say that the reforms approved by the previous Government, in which they request no change in their motion, have not only failed to solve the problems of the people, but have often aggravated them. Some major imbalances in the economy, such as poverty and inequality, have increased in this recovery phase. The Socialist Government will act to address these situations, because social cohesion is an inexcusable condition for the stability of our economy and for economic progress. Moreover, the People's Party Government during these years of absolute majority did not take measures that affected the country's productivity, which are the real basis for vigorous growth in the medium and long term. That is why, from the Socialist Group, we cannot share that vision or what they bring us today, and constructively we have tabled a motion that seeks to create an ambitious agenda of change to increase the productivity of our economy and to guarantee the financial, social and environmental sustainability of our country; also a social agenda that acts to close the gaps in inequality and poverty and that contributes to cohesion in society, obviously betting on the training of workers and the improvement of working conditions, which you did not want to change in your amendment; and a fiscal agenda that allows us to move towards budgetary stability with responsibility and realism, which is what this government is doing in the three months that it has been operating. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the numbers, the macroeconomic figures are always important and the socialist government is on top of them, but, as Minister Calviño said a few days ago in this House, we must govern this country by thinking more about people and less about data. That is why, if you do not accept the constructive amendment that we have tabled to you today, and that I believe we could share all the groups in this House, we will vote against your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Palacín Guarné. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u154	Thank you, Madam President. The official data and indicators that have been published throughout this summer, coinciding with the first three months of the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, clearly reflect a set of signs and symptoms that indicate a gradual brake on Spanish economic growth that started in 2013 that push us away from European convergence. This motion is relevant in terms of general policy, but it is particularly timely to stress that while the pace of economic activity is falling for the whole of Spain, it is very unique in communities that have never reached the average of the most significant national economic parameters. It is the revealing case of Asturias, whose divergence is further accentuated by a massive demographic crisis and by the addition of a lethal threat in the form of a Ministry for the Ecological Transition, whose holder has not measured the deserting impacts of its proposals and the risk of relocation that the closure of power generation power plants would have for the electro-intensive industry, which provides tens of thousands of stable and qualified jobs. Nor has it valued the varapalo demolition for the future of large population regions. To the worrying extent of the last known acts, the great objective of strengthening economic and social cohesion is truncated for some Spanish regions by correcting imbalances between them. The growth rates of Asturias are more and more remote from the Spanish average every day; it is the least dynamic autonomous community and, speaking of employment - where all sectors fall - it chronically occupies the position of red lighthouse in the national labour force rate. Its GDP in the past year 2017 is 5.3% lower than in 2008, which is by far the lowest percentage in all of Spain. I would not like to conclude, Madam President, without referring to the terrible trend of the period 2000-2018, with a fall of 2.33 % in the contribution of industry to national GDP, which is urgent to contain as soon as possible. I shall vote in favour of the motion for an inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have to have a lot of defachability to present a motion like this, you have to have, in the end, a good dose of cynicism, shame and shame. I'm not a suspect in being a PSOE, in fact, I've only voted two PSOE candidates in my life. One was Patxi López to be elected president of Congress and would have happily voted for him again and, in fact, although I greatly appreciate Ana Pastor, I would prefer Patxi López to be here. [[Applauds]] The other time I voted for a socialist candidate was three months ago, when I voted for Pedro Sánchez. On June 2 the new president took office and it has barely been three months and four days, with the summer in between, and you are already calling for the slowdown of the economy, when it has hardly given time to take any action. I insist that I am not suspected of being in the Socialist Party. That is the only reason why this motion would be delegitimized, but let us add some data that you have forgotten in your explanatory statement, Mr Rajoy's inheritance, the inheritance that you so much liked to say to you. Debt has risen from 69 per cent to 100 per cent. We are the European country with the most public deficit, more than 400 billion more public debt. The deficit target was not met by five of the six years. Therefore, few lessons in this. And then the risk of poverty and inequality has increased markedly in the years in which you were in charge of the government. Tell me today about the rise of light when it has risen more than 70% in the last ten years and you have done absolutely nothing to prevent it, what you want me to tell you, is striking. Compromis will not vote in favour of a proposal which only demonstrates the bad body that has been left to them since the legitimate and democratic forces of the votes sent Mr Rajoy to Santa Pola. We hope - and in this I am addressing the Socialist bench - that their unjust reforms will soon come to the corner of thinking of the derogation. [[pointing to the seats on the right]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go on to say that some of the balloon measures that we have heard from the government or some of the members who support the government in the economic sphere do not give us much confidence, we do not like them and I think they should be corrected. However, having heard today's question and motion, I also do not know whether from the opposition they will generate much confidence in the Spanish economy, because we have to be a little rigorous in the debates. When I hear here that in three months, and because of the action of the Socialist Party government, the fruit has risen or that the European Central Bank is going to raise interest rates because there is a socialist government in Spain, we do not give much credibility to the debate. It's been three months. As for this summer's economic data, just as you are pointing out the positives, the negatives must also be held accountable. Let us therefore give time to the Government. I tell you that some of the issues they raise are not going to count on our support, but let us be realistic. That the deficit targets approved in the budget, its budget, will not be met, but the budget administered by the Socialist Party? Actually, but that's what we already told her, that's what Airef warned her about. Therefore, when it comes to building confidence in our economy, we are all responsible and, as we are all responsible, we are not going to support this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u160	Sweep on, good afternoon. Today, the Group of the European People's Party presents us with a motion for a follow-up inquiry into the symptoms of economic slowdown; a three-point motion to dispel doubts about meeting the deficit target, to avoid balloons probing around the rise in taxes and the non-reversion of structural measures adopted in 2012. With regard to the first point of the motion - to dispel doubts about complementing the deficit target - we believe that it is somewhat presumptuous that the Group of the European People's Party should request it when, in previous years, it has not been met and has not dispelled any doubt in this regard. I would also like to remind you that the deficit target has been met by the autonomous communities and municipalities in general and not so by the state, so asking others what one has not done is a little bold, especially when the new forecasts are endorsed by Europe and moreover the proposed new path is more in line with economic reality, as Airef has acknowledged. In this sense, it must be said that the expected growth for the Spanish economy, of course estimated by consensus forecast, is 2.7 for 2018 and 2.3 for 2019 and the same estimates are also planned. [[Rumors]] A rate, by the way, equal to that envisaged by the previous Government. [[Rumors]] According to analysts it seems that economic dynamism will be based, among others, on internal growth with contained imbalances...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u161	Mrs. Sagastizabal, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, because we cannot and should not take a picture from here, but if we took a picture from here we would probably wonder how the honourable Member can be able to concentrate on what she is saying, because there are several corridors. There are only a few minutes left and I would ask you to remain silent, please, and let the honourable Member finish her speech. Congresswoman, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u162	Thank you. As I said, economic dynamism seems to be based on internal growth with contained imbalances, it is true, with a slight restraint in domestic demand but which will also be offset by a contribution from the foreign sector, which is smaller but also positive. By 2019, GDP growth rates are expected to slow down, but this is also reflected in a framework of short-term stability in the various imbalances. Despite the favourable macroeconomic scenario in an environment of economic growth, this group has always insisted and will insist that, if there is a greater medium- and long-term strategy, the existence of certain risks that are increasingly evident and of course more intense - rising interest rates, geopolitical tensions - but also those internal risks, such as productivity, ageing, polarisation of the labour market, unemployment above the European average, especially among young people, and of course excessive presence of any contracts, and also indebtedness. Risks that were already glimpsed in 2018 and a slowdown that began to be glimpsed in the second quarter of the year, according to the INE, and that, therefore, cannot be blamed exclusively on this government that has been in office for a few months. Moreover, today we have just been talking about problems such as the excessive price of light, unemployment, problems which, we have to say, have been going on for a few years. With regard to the second point of the motion referring to tax increases, it is necessary for this group that, if the Government is determined to implement certain measures, it should be clear with them and dispel any doubts in the sector to which they affect. In this sense it must be said that at least this group around the tax increases only knows what the Minister of Finance outlined in her first appearance and what has been going on in the press, which can generate uncertainty and it must be said that she is not a good travel companion for the economy. In this regard, we believe that the Government must give clear and convincing signals of its proposals and, of course, have a dialogue with the various political groups if it is to reach agreements. With regard to the last point in the motion calling for the non-reversion of measures adopted since 2012, I would like to say that this group has been very critical of some of the measures adopted, such as labour reform. We understand, moreover, that we are now in another economic, political and social situation which may invite some of the measures which were adopted and which were very much questioned. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, measures, as well as laws, cannot remain immobile but must also be adapted to the current context and social reality. In short, for all that, this group is going to vote against the motion because it disagrees with most of the points raised in it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are presenting here a motion on the symptoms of the slowdown in the Spanish economy and also making recommendations on it. Precisely you. The irony of life that these recommendations come from the party that was in the government in managing the crisis and whose actions and consequences have led us today to this situation. In view of the use of indicators in which you support yourselves in talking about deceleration, we would also like to put on the table the latest economic data published by the Statistical Institute of Catalonia, which show how Catalan GDP recorded a growth of 3.1% annually during the second quarter of 2018, that is, a growth of four tenths above the Spanish average and a percentage point of the European average, which, as you know, is 2.1%, a figure to be taken into account also by all those prophets of the Apocalypse in the political situation in Catalonia. In these days when we are witnessing this crossing of accusations by dubious masters and doctorates, which, by the way, in our opinion should not stop covering up more relevant facts that occurred in the last week, such as the non-revaluation of pensions or the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia, it seems that here we have no problems of this kind but rather of high school, because you do not know what inertia is and that the economy has a transatlantic inertia that cannot be valued with just a hundred days. You took advantage of aft winds more than the strength of machines to gain speed in divergent direction to sustainable and equitable growth. They had the opportunity to resemble all the countries we envied, and certainly in Catalonia we are still determined to build. Do you know how such growth is achieved? Not drying the sources as he did and does his budgetary policy with R & D+i or seeking that Spain is not on the sad price podium of electricity for SMEs, increasing efficiency and competitiveness and the wage mass. Instead, guess what. Here in the Kingdom of Spain the measures to get out of the crisis have been based precisely on the opposite, on lower efficiency and lower wages. [[The lady]] But now that the situation has changed and the international context is no longer so favourable to us, given the more than likely rise in interest rates that threatens to make repayable the colossal debt contracted - by you - in recent years, you come here to give lessons of economic growth. From this we can draw an ironic lesson: first, they set us on the cliff course and now they warn us that we can keep quiet. Tell me this doesn't hurt self-fulfilling prophecy. We have already warned that this was not the right way to achieve healthy growth, you confused hypertrophy with hyperplasia, you were leading the ship in the opposite direction and we do not say it, since there is at your disposal multiple literature that analyzes why some countries fail, and you have been fulfilling everything that leads to failure, starting with a low institutional quality unworthy of a 21st-century European state. Many thanks to those who have listened to me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Montero Soler has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Floriano and Mr Ruano, it is a surrealist film to discuss this issue and at the request of your group right now in this plenary. Surrealist essentially for two reasons. The first thing that is basic: that the short-term indicators reflect trends, and the short-term indicators already reflected a tendency to slow down the Spanish economy even when you were ruling. Look at what a surprising thing! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u168	Secondly, because for months we have been talking about the existence of something that you systematically denied, which was the existence of tail winds over the Spanish economy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u169	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u170	The Banco de España itself quantified the magnitude of these tail winds and explained that their differential impact on the Spanish economy was essentially due to the characteristics of the Spanish economy, so that they impacted differently on our economy the fall in interest rates, the fall in the energy prices of oil, the convulsive situation in certain competitors in the tourism sector and the situation of bonanza in foreign trade. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u171	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u172	And there was an endogenous factor that also highlighted the Bank of Spain: the expansive fiscal policy of the People's Party government to try to win the 2015 and 2016 elections, increasing public spending and reducing public revenues. Exactly as the Socialist Party Government is now accused of. So you have problems or had problems to recognize the existence, or you did not want to recognize it, of tail winds over the Spanish economy, but when those same factors turn, change the meaning and begin to affect the Spanish economy in a negative sense, what happens is that you start to call them negative international winds, in Mr Floriano's words last Wednesday. That is why the debate is surreal in terms of economic logic and, as Mr Roldán has spoken of the perfect storm and we are talking about winds, it is surreal even in meteorological logic. That said, I am not so concerned about the presentation of this inquiry and the content of the motion as the satisfaction of the Minister of Economy to try to explain to us that everything is fine, that everything is controlled, that there is nothing to worry about and that growth is supported, according to her, on solid bases with positive contributions both of internal demand and of external demand, bases that in theory and, according to her own expression, should lead us to a more neutral position of the cycle. In fact, of that response to Mr Floriano's inquiry by the minister, we are fundamentally concerned about two things: One, that she too would focus on short-term indicators and, two, that would obviate the evolution of the great macromagnitudes. First, that great change that had taken place in our economy, which was the positive contribution of the foreign sector to the growth of gross domestic product, is disappearing in recent months. The external sector has dropped 6 points in terms of value and 8 points in terms of volume compared to 2017. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u173	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u174	In other words, the Spanish economy returns to a foreign sector that does not contribute positively to the growth of the economy. Secondly, domestic demand is frozen at the same level as in 2017. Thirdly, the economy's saving rate is falling back to minimum levels. This essentially means that families are going to have to resort to debt again if they want to face current expenses. Fourthly, the evolution of wages. Two days ago Eurostat published that Spain is the second country where labour costs have increased the least in the second quarter of 2018. In other words, we have an economy where wages are stagnant and that has an impact both in terms of increasing indebtedness and in terms of slowing domestic consumption. What concerns us essentially is that the minister referred to the labour market and its situation, but took it as a fact and not as a space for intervention in terms of economic policy. And what worries me most and our group is that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and this government have given up seeking in this House the necessary votes to repeal the labor reform, which is the source of many of the problems facing the Spanish economy. They have to repeal this reform essentially because the People's Party has made two basic reforms with two completely different logics: the one on the labour market and the other on the financial and banking market. The labour market, in order to increase flexibility and to put an end to the bargaining power of workers. The banking market, in order to increase concentration and increase the bargaining capacity of the sector. [[Rumors]] I'm done, President. We are concerned that today we can all be very satisfied that this motion does not go ahead, but as long as this reform does not go away, the working and living conditions of the workers in this country will depend on every breath of air that shakes the Spanish economy. Obviously, we are going to vote against this motion. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u175	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. I ask Mr Ruano García whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u176	Yes, Madam President. We accept the transaction we have presented with Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u177	Thank you very much. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the votes begin. We vote first of all to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, an organic reform of Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 6 telematics votes, 346; 176 plus 5 telematics votes, 181; 163 plus 1 telematics vote, 164; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u179	It is therefore taken into consideration. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I, ladies and gentlemen, would ask you, since there are telematic votes and we must count, to remain silent until the count is finished. Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) may, in common, in the Sea, of Habitational Emergence in Vulnerable Families in the Habitational Environment and Energy Poverty. [[File number 122/00234]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u180	We now proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, of housing emergency in vulnerable families in the housing field and of energy poverty. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 6 telematics votes, 346; 172 plus 5 telematics votes, 177; 163; abstentions, 5 plus 1 telematics vote, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u181	It is therefore taken into consideration. [[Greetings.- Several guest gentlemen in the public gallery stand up and shout: Yes you can!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party-In Comú Podem-En Marea, standing up, addressing the public gallery.-Protests]] I beg the House's services to remove the rostrum. [[This is what the services of the Chamber do.-Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u182	Let us proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. First, no law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the fight against tax fraud and the promotion of transparency regarding tax amnesty. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 82 against, 134 abstentions, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u183	It's rejected. [[A Member of Parliament: Cowards!]] Quiet. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE DEFENCE OF THE SPANISH JURISDICTION AND CONDEMN THE SEPARATIST COUNTRY AGAINST JUDGMENTS AND TAXES. [[File number 162/000755]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u184	No bill of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the defence of Spanish jurisdiction and condemnation of separatist harassment against judges and prosecutors. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 251 against 88 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u185	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u186	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. First, the motion resulting from the questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the application of the moratorium to paralyse the departure of soldiers of temporary troops and marinery at the turn of forty-five years. We are voting in the terms of the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 114 against, 219 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u187	It's rejected. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON DEMOCRATIC REGENERATION MEASURES TO ENCOURAGE THE GOVERNMENT, BETWEEN THE SUPRESSION OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS. [[File number 173/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u188	We are now voting on the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the democratic regeneration measures that the Government intends to promote, among other things, the abolition of political outbursts. He's going to vote on his own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 253 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u189	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the symptoms of the deceleration of the Spanish economy. [[File number 173/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u190	We moved on to the motion following urgent questioning by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the symptoms of slowing down the Spanish economy. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 164 against, 167 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-18-CD180918.u191	It's rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and ten minutes of the night.
