ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to include as the last item of the session next Thursday 22 February a new paragraph on the calling by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the proposals for legislation on the establishment of a minimum income allowance in the field of social security protection and amending Article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. On the other hand, I should like to inform you that there will be no votes to coincide with the plenary session of the Senate today, so they will take place at the sitting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u2	We now turn to the first item on the agenda, which concerns the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, of equal pay for women and men. Mrs Montero Gil has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to say my first words to women in the gallery today and also to some Members who have made this law possible. First of all, for Yolanda Díaz, who is a friend, a partner, a member of my parliamentary group, who brings forward an always honest, dedicated and rigorous work and who has worked to find all the tools to make this law possible. [[Applauds]] Also to the drafting team of this law, Mireia Llobera, Héctor Illueca, Juan López Gandía, Carmen Castro and especially to the coordinator of this team, the professor Amparo Ballester, who will give name to this law, the Ballester law, thanks to which today we can present this pioneering law in Europe in matters of remuneration equality. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. This law is, ladies and gentlemen, a patriotic law. Perhaps many of the Members of my parliamentary group do not wear the flag of Spain on a bracelet, but we prefer to show love for our people and our country by proposing that half of the population stop being discriminated against and stop charging less than men just because they are women. Today, the 8.5 million women in this country who have a job still lack at least four days, according to the most conservative estimates, to start collecting for their work, because the current wage gap levels mean that Spanish women work at least fifty-four days a year free of charge compared to men. I insist, this according to the most conservative calculations. We talk about the fact that women in Spain charge almost 6000 euros less on average each year than men, according to a report by the UGT union. It is important to look at the working reality of women in Spain. Do you know what the summary is? They have less work, more precarious and worse conditions and only because they are women. I bring the data, so they don't say this is a lie. According to the latest EPA, that of the fourth quarter of 2017, men take 54% of the new employment; women only 46. Employment, therefore, is growing less among women. In unemployment, however, women are champions; the unemployment rate for women is 18%, while that for men is almost four points lower. But it is that men not only find more work, they find it of higher quality; 6 out of 10 indefinite contracts are for men and, on the contrary, women are the champions in temporary contracts. 24% of women have a part-time contract, while for men this percentage is three and a half times less than 7%. This working reality is also reflected in the existence of a huge real wage gap in Spain, which is around 22 or 24%, not 14%, as you say, and as your parliamentary spokesman said today, which, by the way, has said that you were awaiting the debate to decide your vote, but I believe that very few of you are going to learn about the debate that we have given in this House in the light of how empty your bench is. [[Applauds]] You in the calculations - Mrs Villalobos is going to find out - have only the basic wage to do the calculation, but the sources of inequality and the wage gap in Spain are not so much in the basic wage as in other factors that are part of the economic remuneration in the jobs. That is why this law is not called the law of equal pay, it is called the law of equal pay, because the key to the wage gap is found in the complements and pluses - check, there the gap reaches 30% - in the overtime - where the wage gap is triggered up to 80% - or where the feminized labor sectors offer lower wages, or in the impossibility of reconciling. That is why 7 out of 10 part-time contracts in Spain are performed by women, and that is why 8 out of 10 people who are unemployed to care for their children are women, who are the ones who claim 90 per cent of the surpluses for the care of children. Greater precariousness in employment and lower wages make contributions worse, lower, and this also leads to greater inequality and overall poverty. So it happens that 6 out of 10 people in a situation of job vulnerability are women and when they retire, Mrs Villalobos, millions of women find themselves with pensions of real misery. Women receive an average pension of almost 40% lower than men; 8 out of 10 pensions under EUR 400 are received by women, while 2 out of 10 pensions over EUR 2500 are not paid by women. To all this we must add the millions of dedicated hours of work, which are not considered jobs and are therefore not remunerated and which mainly women do, to care in this country. I'm talking about reproductive work. Do you know how much economic value the available studies attribute to reproductive work, to unpaid work, mainly done by women? 53 % of gross domestic product, Your Honor. We are talking about reproductive work that would amount to more than half of the country's gross domestic product. [[Applauds]] This means that there is one third of the wealth of the country that is basically produced by women and that it does not even appear in official statistics. According to the National Statistical Institute, women perform, on average, two and a half hours more daily domestic work than men. Different studies indicate that women spend between four and five hours a day on reproductive tasks. In one year women devote seventy-six days to reproductive and care tasks; two and a half months each year, ladies and gentlemen, dedicated to care tasks only because they are women. Therefore, when we talk about sharing care, we not only talk about a moral or ideological issue; it is also an economic, also political, issue of the vertebrae of the Spanish political, economic and social system, of coexistence. It is about distributing work and also wealth, ladies and gentlemen, in a more egalitarian way in society. That is why we always tell them that feminism is not a point and apart from the politics of this country, which is its backbone. Because it is a question of whether the way in which we want to organize society is democratic or egalitarian or whether, on the contrary, it will continue to discriminate against half the population that we are women and whether we can change our living standards to put life at the centre and not the interests of the powerful, as you do every time you rule and you are sitting on that blue bench. [[Applauds]] You know what? The wage gap does generate benefits, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that it does not generate them for Spain or for the Spanish, much less for women, but there are those who do win with the wage gap. You know who? The employer does win, 42 billion euros a year more to pay less to women for being so. Perhaps with this data you can better understand why your president is absent today, Mr. M. Rajoy, said that we should not get involved in that, because you always rule to defend the pockets of the powerful even if that goes in favour of the suffering of the majority of the population in Spain. [[Applauds]] What are the main measures of the proposal? Let's see if we can convince them to vote for it. One, to end the opacity of the pay criteria that make it easier for companies to keep the wage gap in place, and not only in the base wage, but in the extra pay, pluses and overtime. To this end, the company will have an obligation to include in the payroll of each worker the average information of wages distributed by sex, the remuneration given to men and women, i.e. the information of the company's wage gap in the payroll of each worker. The agreement must contain in a mandatory manner the specific criteria justifying a certain remuneration and any supplemental payment. Discrimination from a wage gap of more than 20% will be presumed and a specialized unit established to ensure compliance with these obligations, competent to investigate and also sanction, in all provincial labour inspections. Companies which fail to comply with the obligation to carry out a salary audit shall also be punished. This penalty must be equivalent to the failure to comply with the Equality Plan, which is a very serious infringement which can amount to almost EUR 200 000 in fines. We guarantee by law the principle of equal pay between workers who serve the same company, do so contracted by the main company or through subcontracts. We ensure by law that when a conviction for discrimination occurs, there will be no wage equalization on the low, as is happening now. We insist on the need to make maternity and paternity leave equal, non-transferable and 100 per cent paid, something you have vetoed twice, the first of them on 8 March last year. This cries out to heaven, ladies and gentlemen, for it is essential for this shameful situation to stop happening, which is suffering millions of women in this country who when they are going to ask for a job ask them if they are planning to become pregnant, to see if they are given the job or not. [[Applauds]] This is why equal and non-transferable maternity and paternity leave is important. [[Applauds]] Also, to make unremunerated reproductive work visible by drawing up satellite accounts for the gross domestic product to quantify the economic value of such unpaid reproductive work primarily performed by women. We hope to have the majority support of this House to move this initiative forward. From the heart I ask you to reconsider your position, I think that if you are thinking about it it is that you do not have very clear vote in favour but, believe me, this law goes in favour of the general interest of Spain and goes in favour of the general interest of the Spanish and Spanish. I told Mrs Báñez last week and I tell you again, you have not only not been involved in this during your six years of government - as Mr M. Rajoy said the other day - but it bothers you that other people do. In my parliamentary group, we are very tired of those who call themselves patriots, but in the background they despise every single thing proper to the way we live in Spain; of those who claim to be patriots, but then they despise the public pension system and charge themselves with pensions and tell families to save and make a private pension plan. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] I am sick of those who are called patriots but then despise dependent people and allow ninety people to die every day in Spain without receiving that right that they have in the form of financial aid because they are dependent. I am sick of those who claim to be patriotic but then despise the public health and education of our country and always resort to health and private education because they do not trust the education or health of their country. [[Applauds]] I am sick of those who call themselves patriotic, but allow for more than six years of government there to be a wage gap of more than 24% in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, our mothers, our grandmothers, all those who have come before have taught us new generations, new women, to love our way of living, which is to defend public services, which is to defend community life, which is to put life at the centre and not the interests of financial vultures and powerful people, as you do. [[Applauds]] And we've also been taught that if we don't fight, nobody's gonna do it for us. This fight is not from my parliamentary group against yours, ladies and gentlemen, it is from the feminist, democratic, egalitarian Spain, against a macho government that perpetuates and increases inequality while still sitting on those blue banks. [[Applauds]] His government is a macho government - and with this I conclude, President -; his government is a macho government because it implements policies that maintain and exacerbate inequality between men and women. But today's Spain, which is a feminist Spain, which is also tomorrow's Spain, has millions of women who today are scrubbing floors, sweeping houses, shopping, preparing meals, picking up the table after each dinner, who want a country with full rights and without you in government so that Spain is a truly democratic, feminist and egalitarian country. On March 8 there is a feminist strike and you have a very important opportunity to think about it all. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montero. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon. We are faced with an initiative that responds to a historical need that is not of yesterday, that has been and will be of constant concern. Significantly, it is worth recalling that almost a quarter of a century ago, in 1994, precisely on 8 March, the Constitutional Court granted protection to 140 women workers who, with higher or equivalent categories than men, received significantly lower wages in the same company. The sentence was as conclusive as it was conclusive. Therefore, it cannot be based on the fact that in Spain we do not have legal mechanisms to deal with gender discrimination because it is not true. However, there are eloquent figures. In Asturias - data recently released by finance technicians - women account for 37.8% less on average than men and this represents the largest wage gap in all autonomous communities. [[Management]] I emphasize this: the largest in all of Spain. The broad text of this initiative calls for major reforms. Only four months ago, we unanimously adopted a very broad motion calling for measures to comply with the European Commission's 2014 recommendation to establish the necessary mechanisms to correct the pay gap between men and women in Spain. From Forum we believe that it is not fair to depreciate our legislative and regulatory framework since in Spain it is not allowed that in a company with equal work, equal hours and equal conditions, there are different salaries. Therefore, it does not seem to us wrong to have a legislative focus on supporting the same pay for work of equal value; in fact, it is our commitment to promote measures to promote women's job stability and their fair pay by implementing policies with which to overcome the impact of gender division on the employment structure. All this without forgetting, on the other hand, that equality is something that, as so many times repeated from this rostrum, goes far beyond the scope of work because it involves the Administration, educational factors to implement the co-responsibility of men with their partners and society as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u7	Pick it up on. For those like Euskal Herria Bildu we aspire to live in an independent and feminist Basque republic, it is essential to build a future in which the multiple discriminations suffered by half the population disappear: women. Correcting the wage gap is a step in that direction, understanding that we are not only claiming the same salary for the same work, but that the precariousness and feminization of partial work have only exacerbated the situation and, far from improving, between 2009 and 2014 the wage gap has increased because of austerity policies. The data require action now. In the Autonomous Community of Navarre, women's wages are 33% lower. The Social Economic Forum points out that it will take two centuries to achieve wage equality, and there is not a single country in the world that has achieved this. And all this, without forgetting that equal work will not be possible until we resolve the labour and social conflict, and look at the reproductive sphere by placing the sustainability of life at the heart of policies. Men and society must be held accountable for their reproductive work; it is a question of justice. As long as this does not happen and the sexual division of labour in all spheres and power relations between men and women is overcome, we cannot talk about equality in wages. And although we know that the system is not going to allow the modification of what guarantees its existence, that is, the accumulation of capital through the appropriation by a few of the work of many - among them, the work that we do free of charge by women in the home or at very low prices in the market - we are prepared to act against the prevailing relations of domination. In this task, any step we take, however partial and insufficient it may be, will help us to achieve our objective, so that, even if we do not agree entirely with the proposed text, we will support, of course, the admission to the procedure of the proposed law for debate. We do so in line with what we recently supported in the Gasteiz Parliament, so that the debate on the law in Congress could be speeded up, while in our territory we began to act without waiting for Madrid. Even more so when waiting for the Government to submit a bill on the subject is something similar to not moving forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Irene, we, unlike the People's Party, have no doubt, we are going to vote in favour. When we asked who was coming out to defend this proposal from among the members of our group, where we are three men and one woman, we decided that the debate was important enough for a man to be involved in it and serious enough for the spokesman to come out to defend the affirmative vote to be taken into consideration. Therefore, we have had it very clear. Yesterday, in an interview and on the thread that Marta Sánchez had put a letter to the anthem of Spain, I said a phrase that I feel: less hymns and more compliance with the Constitution. I insist, less hymns and more compliance with the Constitution. Article 14: Spaniards are equal before the law without discrimination on grounds of sex, race, place of birth, opinion, etc. Therefore, less hymns and more compliance with the Constitution. The debate on the wage gap, as we understand it, is necessary and absolutely fair; it is a debate that is on the street and in which, in principle, we can all agree, but things are changing by legislation. With good will progress is made, but faster progress is made by legislation. That's why we're here to legislate, and that's why it's important that this law isn't what's happening to so many laws that have been waiting for six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven or twelve years. I'm done because the president is telling me. I ended, moreover, with that supposed letter of the anthem, and I say that, in the face of a patriotism of flag and anthem, we claim a homeland of people; in the face of the pride of being born in one place, we claim the pride of being born in a place where we are all equal, men and women; and in the face of that stanza that says 'And if I can't come back someday,...' I want young people and scientists to be able to come back, in the face of that last stanza that says '... save me a place to rest at last', I don't want a place to rest, but a place to live in freedom and equality. That is my homeland, the homeland of women who live on equal terms, in freedom with men. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades finally has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Montero. Go ahead with the Democratic Party's support for his initiative. He has defended her with conviction. We can share the fundamental question that you raise as far as the problem is concerned, but you will also agree with me that this is not an exclusive issue of the economy or of the labour market in Spain - it is part of an agenda in all the advanced economies - and that should perhaps make us a more modest point in our approach to the policies and legislation we need in this area. For example, in his speech I have missed a fundamental aspect, which is the role of collective bargaining in dealing with this problem. Now that we are beginning to approach this issue a little more seriously, we have shown that collective agreements also form a discriminatory regime according to the professional category of the same activity is assigned to women or men. It would therefore also be good if we strengthened that role of collective bargaining. He has made no reference today in his speech - although it does appear in his bill and it is important - to the aspects linked to conciliation and equality policies. There you refer to an issue that our colleague Mrs Ciuro has been defending for a long time in this House, which is the need for an equal and non-transferable permit regime. Because, probably, the great challenge in the area of equality, and perhaps one of the explanations of the problems of the wage gap, has to do with a collective failure that is the failure of conciliation policies, which has basically consisted in women reconciling more than that of men being able to engage seriously and responsibly in the affairs of everyday life in households and in the care of dependent children and people. In this regard, the legislative initiatives currently under way in the area of equality, in the area of remuneration permits, are fundamental. Finally, one issue to which you referred and which is no less - I think that there the spokesmen of the People's Group might agree with you - is the inspiration that Germany must show us with its policy of wage transparency. Germany has announced legislation in this area and we must move in that direction. I hope, Mrs Montero, that we will agree on the parliamentary procedure and that, as Mr Baldoví said, this is not a frustrated law, that this law ends in the BOE and that it is another instrument for that cause of equality between men and women, which is a cause we all share. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u13	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen; good afternoon, Mr President. Last week we also discussed the same issue through a motion calling on the Government to introduce a bill on the same subject, on the elimination of the wage gap, on the elimination of gender differences, and on the elimination of pay differences between men and women. [[The lady]] But he also recalled in that intervention that it was not the first time, because a year earlier we had met on this same stand to request in another motion the Government to submit a bill on this issue and yet there has been no reply, there has been no initiative, there has been no intervention. That is something that is truly regrettable: that there should be an Executive who, despite being mandated by the Legislature, does not act in line no longer with this sensitivity but with a problem of silence and characteristics like the one we are discussing here today. Only ten days ago the Basque Parliament - reminded Marian Beitialarrangoitia a moment ago - adopted a non-law proposal calling also on this Congress to adopt a law on equal pay and remuneration and on pay transparency, which is also a defining element of the need for a substantive measure, that of transparency. Today, on the eve of 22 February, which is the date on which the International Day of Equal Wage is commemorated, we are presented with a proposal for a law on equal pay for women and men whose content, to be questionable as everything else, opens at least a battery of legislative proposals that affect ten different laws and numerous precepts. He also said last week that the twenty-first century is called to be that of the greatest revolution ever attempted in history, which is where to get 50% of humanity to begin to hold the same rights as the other 50%. But the truth is that from the normative framework, and except for solemn declarations, little has been done, it has not been done in a faithful way and it has not been done in a guaranteed and transparent way. And although this is a crucial issue, I come back to the beginning, it turns out that we have not had an answer to any legislative proposals of any kind, and although this is a matter for the President of the Government who may not seem to be involved, it is worth remembering that this is a key issue throughout Europe, it is a capital issue in the ILO environment, it is a capital issue in our social environment, it is a capital issue in this House and it is a capital issue among the social actors, and yet, until we have had this legislative proposal, there has been no way of looking at the possibility of discussing some measures. Many actions have been known, ILO Convention 110 has already started by recalling the need to consider equal pay for men and women, but relatively recently the Commission of 7 March 2014 adopted a recommendation on strengthening the principle of equal pay for men and women; articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty on European Union were adopted to enshrine the right to equality; articles 8 and 10 of the TFEU were adopted to eliminate inequalities between men and women; and article 157 of the Treaty required equal pay. And so a succession of international legislative acts in some case such as that of the ILO or the internal one such as that of the Treaty of the European Union that have prompted us to remove from this seat where we remain still was an absolutely unacceptable position. This proposal addresses in this sense a wide range of amendments - I said earlier, ten legislative texts - many of them acceptable, others questionable, but generally well-targeted, following a legislative model that has already been put into practice in other countries, mainly in Germany and Finland. It covers the amendment of labour legislation and the Staff Regulations, the modification of the scope of representation in these two substantive aspects, the amendment of procedural legislation, both of a social and contentious nature, cooperative legislation, pension legislation and some other issues on which, as I have said, we can more or less agree, but which have the virtuality of blacking out certain measures that need to be addressed; essentially one, which has also been referred to in other legislation, in fact Finnish legislation is entitled in this way: transparency, that of unmasking in some way those legislative aspects that could conceal differences of treatment in pay matters that today are not only inadmissible but must also be rebutted. I am moving forward with all this, as you will understand, that our vote will be in favour of taking account of the proposal for a law, without prejudice to the fact that we do not share any aspect of its content, although we cannot fail to appreciate the effort and opportunity of its drafters, of whom I must say, as a matter of fact, that they have done an improbable job. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u15	Thank you very much, President. Very late for everyone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Start your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] On 1 January 2018, four days ago, the law came into force in Iceland requiring that in both the public and private sectors any company with more than twenty-five workers obtain government certificates to ensure compliance with equal pay policies. If this does not happen, these certificates are not obtained, companies will face fines and audits. In Germany, it will be just over a month before the big German companies are obliged to inform their employees of how much their colleagues, men, charge for the same job. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing everyone in general, but above all the ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, the wage gap must be prohibited by law and sanctions must be applied when it fails. It is an absolute injustice that affects nothing more and nothing less than 50% of the population. Legislation in favour of equality is not a novelty; in fact, I tried to explain it last week. They won't give the prize to originality for doing so nor will they stop sending chocolates, turrones, cava or whatever for Christmas. Do it because it's not so hard; you'll see. Countries such as Germany, Iceland or the United Kingdom are already implementing these legislative measures to equalise wages and opportunities between the two genders. And you know what? That in the end you too will do much better. We independent Republicans are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, of course, because it is a just and courageous initiative that we hope will escape the declaratory policy of the two parties in this House who have had managerial responsibilities in recent decades and who, in the end, have helped to build the terrible scenario in which we find ourselves today and which we denounce today. In fact, we have denounced it a thousand times, millions of times, a multitude of times, and we have wondered on millions of occasions - despite everything, we continue to do so - why the hell do you do if a woman and a man do the same job do not charge the same. [[Applauds]] It's a stupid question, but we're still doing it today. According to a UGT report, women workers in the Spanish state earn 24% less than workers and must work nothing more and nothing less than 11.5 years more than men to get the same pension as they do. I mean, I smelled you! Unbelievable! Unbelievable! We have one of the largest wage gaps in the European Union and it is clear that the crisis of austerity policies has only exacerbated this extreme injustice, but it is clear, as always, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, that it is best not to get involved in this. It's best not to get into it and wait for someone or something to fix it. The best thing is, as always, that someone from time to time, in his Council of Ministers or wherever he puts some will, makes some statement, puts some goodism - in short, word of mouth - and, of course, does not get into that eggplant. In Catalonia we already know them, we already know how they act. In fact, we know perfectly well. We know all their formulas for resolving conflicts, and what they do is precisely this: nothing. They do absolutely nothing, they do nothing and let time pass, even though injustice is increasing. They would have to change their strategy because it can no longer be repressed. Change of strategy and enough declarative policies, reports, statistics and studies, because we are very tired of always discussing the same. We already know the numbers, the statistics and all the pictures there have been and there have been. Get to legislate once and for all to put an end to this retrograde and absolutely absurd madness. It is true that the wage gap is a matter of discrimination, a consequence of the sexist prejudices of entrepreneurs who pay less to women than to men for doing the same job. In fact, it is a real attack on justice and equality, but ultimately it is the fruit of a society - the Spanish one - and a government - that of the People's Party - patriarchal and Machist. This is the reality and they are in every sense, a society that still drinks of the expired principles of tardifranchism. We have to say it loud and clear because this is the only cause, if not the main cause. It is essential to legislate; it is. Measures are needed to increase the amount of women's pensions, to equal all maternity and paternity leave once and for all and to make them non-transferable, schools from 0 to 3 years free of charge or to fulfil what you committed to: the Equality Act. We like the music of this PL, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos; in fact, the lyrics too. I'll tell you more: we love it. We will work on it through some amendment, because we believe it could certainly improve the text. Let me read some more data. Already put, since I have faith it's going to be the last time we discuss it, I'm going to give you some quick data. In 2014, the European Commission issued a recommendation to the Member States of the European Union to address wage inequality. Women suffer more precarious work than men. The vast majority of new recruitments of women are temporary contracts. In addition, three out of four part-time contracts are occupied by female workers. These data show us the machismo in the labour market and the unequal distribution of care work between men and women. It is therefore essential and necessary to establish birth and adoption permits that are equal and non-transferable, because only in this way will men be guaranteed their right to care for their newborn children and women will be free from the stigma of being intrusive in the labour market, leaving entrepreneurs without any excuse to discriminate when it comes to hiring, raising us or raising our wages. I'm finishing up. It is also important to introduce measures in the educational system aimed at combating sexist prejudices. If we reduce gender segregation in education, we will both reduce gender segregation in the labour market and, therefore, reduce the wage gap. You see, you have two options; in fact, the same two options that you have in all the problems that concern the Spanish State: one solution would be to get into it and work and the other is to keep not getting into it and do nothing. These are the two options. Do as you please. I of you, Mr. Rajoy, would get involved in that. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u17	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying this last week in the debate on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and again we are talking about the wage gap, and today I have to repeat it, two weeks in a row. In addition, we already have more than five initiatives approved by this House that the Government has not launched. On the other hand, as I was also saying last week, it is not much that we continue to talk about it, because although, given the background, it will only serve to try to do some pedagogy in front of the negatists, I hope it will serve something. I repeat what I said the other day: the wage gap exists and is due to a structural issue, which is the inequality that exists in society and also in the labour market. What do you think this debate will lead us to? Admission to the procedure may be approved and the procedure continued, but the Socialist Parliamentary Group has already put forward another proposal for a law on equal pay and I suspect that a war between the two groups will begin so that it can be adopted sooner than later and so be pointed out. In fact, I was reading right now that they're already accusing each other of scripts. Do you know after that happens? What is happening so far will happen, that the government will do nothing. It is happening with the State Pact against Macho Violence, with all these initiatives that I was talking about, with regeneration, etc. The government doesn't start, it doesn't comply. I wish I was wrong, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I hope you will, even if it is only to bring us the opposite of the citizens' deputies, which seems to be their favorite sport lately. If the ultimate end is good for all Spaniards, we will even assume the attacks with elegance. The Socialist Parliamentary Group was already told the other day that they feel they are negotiating budgets with the Government. From what I've seen, it's the only way a measure can get in place. Do so as we have done with parental leave, which is one of the basic measures to combat the wage gap. I'm also telling Unite Podemos today. They negotiate budgets, although in this case I say this with even less hope - and I feel that it is so - because their group was unable even to sign the State Pact against Macho Violence, a pact with very positive measures for women who are suffering from it. Everything that smells like stability, utility or consensus gives you allergy, because you prefer Carl Schmitt's famous friend-enemy dialectic, which Mr. Iglesias so much likes. Well, look, if I may, in my humble opinion I will tell you that we are not at that point in history where this type of dialectic can work, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, we share the purpose of this bill. Measures need to be put in place to combat such pay inequality. This is already being done by most of the countries of the European Union, even in countries where there is greater equality in data than in Spain. And about data, in particular, I wanted to talk, because what about our country? No reliable indicators? The government always gives an old Eurostat figure of 14.9%, while the unions give one close to 25%. We also have the last of last week, last week, of the trade union of finance technicians, of the ministry of Mr Montoro, we assume that they are reliable data, and they gave a figure of nothing more and nothing less than 30%. In addition, curiously, in the last report on the gender gap of the World Economic Forum, there were many empty boxes referring to Spain. What, we don't provide data? Don't you care about the government? Do we only have that 2014 INE study? I think it's getting a little old. He's playing it right now. My group, Citizens, is concerned that there are no rigorous and official indicators, because if not, how can we assess what gap exists? How can we establish measures and legislate to combat it? Be serious, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, we must get in the way. The forum reports say that that inequality, that gap, is now stagnant and that it will take more than a century to close. And the causes of this inequality are diverse and many structural. This is something that the Group's proposed law We can't just contemplate, or at least it doesn't do it with enough depth that it requires. The bulk of the measures are aimed at collective bargaining, wage transparency, equality in professional promotion and public policies on strict equal pay. And yes, we must also address them, but we must also take steps to address the ancillary and structural causes that determine that gap, that wage gap. For example, the fact that women have less skilled jobs, and that this continues to be so even though our training is now slightly higher than that of men. There are also problems of equal access to employment, curriculum vitae or job interviews. We miss that stage of work a little in this bill. The increased use of surpluses or work permits for the care of children and family members. 93% of these surpluses are taken by us; ultimately, the lack of co-responsibility; the fact that women spend twice as much time as men in care and home work. Of course, also glass ceilings for access to management and decision-making posts. While it is true that it introduces an additional provision that has to do with this, in relation to the extension and equalization of paternity and maternity leave, I remind you, even if you always ignore it, that who is getting those leave to be equalized is my group, Citizens. Mrs. Montero, permissions are not vetoed. They have already begun to launch; we demanded it in the People's Party investment agreement; we negotiated it in the general budgets of 2017. The fruit of this is not yet enough, but as you know - even if you do - the Spanish parents have been able to enjoy two more weeks of leave. And permissions are vetoing parties like you, which continue to block budgets. And if you keep doing that, permissions aren't going to match, keep it in mind. Here I also throw a glove at the Basque Nationalist Party. I read this weekend that the Basque Government has announced that it will include an equalization of permits for officials and will raise them to eighteen weeks. Really, ladies and gentlemen, delighted that it is so; very well on your part; very well done, you can afford it because you have more money, you touched the coupon. [[Applauds]] But, please, if it's not too much to ask, think also about the rest of the Spanish parents, equality and solidarity, does that sound to you? Finally, I would like to say that this proposal for a law could be an opportunity to start a path against retributive inequality, but, of course, the measures seem insufficient to us, it seems to us to be an unambitious proposal for a law that does not address the root problem. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Reyes. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cancela Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u19	Thank you very much, President; very good afternoon. In the last parliamentary sessions we have dealt with the issue we are dealing with today, the wage gap between women and men, noting a clear reality that we all share and that it is also contrary to the constitutional framework itself in articles 14 and 35.1, in the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute and in Organic Law 3/2007 itself. We therefore start from a real situation that we can call unconstitutional; the inequality of women in the labour market exists and persists despite an ambitious legislative and regulatory framework, complemented by provisions of the ILO, the European Union itself and declared as a right by repeated rulings of the Constitutional Court. With regard to Mrs Montero's speech, I believe that we share the general diagnosis of the labour market. We are talking about a tremendously high percentage of the wage gap between women and men, which in many cases reaches even 30%. We are talking about 414 euros a month less wages than men; we are talking about 18.4% of women with average wages below the interprofessional minimum wage; the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2017 is talking about 45.56 % of employed people who are women, and they are the ones who play 75% of part-time work in this country. If this is transferred to the pension area, the gap is almost 38%. All this, of course, is due to the addition of a number of constraints and structural elements in our labour market which are harmful and which hinder or impede the conditions of equality. A greater difficulty not only to access, but to stay and promote us in the labour market; horizontal and vertical segregation. It is not true that women are not prepared to face our professional challenge; in fact, the qualified training of women in the field of universities and qualified vocational training is the highest that has existed in the history of our country and yet we continue to encounter this glass roof that prevents us from gaining leadership and responsibility positions. The burden of taking on family care tasks; the non-equivalence of paternity and maternity leave; the weakening of collective bargaining; and the temporary and precarious employment relationship, which bear the name of a woman. The big question is, how do we prevent this situation from continuing? The solution is nothing but legislation. There is no other way of ending this situation, and we agree that the fundamental axes on which this legislative text should revolve are at least the following: on the one hand, the strengthening of collective bargaining, weakened after the labour reform of the People's Party; they are collective agreements through which the world of labour relations must be self-normated, because they are the loopholes that the social and economic actors of this country have in order to implement their normative autonomy in the exercise of the right attributed to it by the constitutional framework itself. It would therefore be, under a law, a cross-sectoral framework agreement on collective bargaining which could lay down general conditions which would then have to develop the lower areas of collective bargaining when it comes to collective bargaining. With regard to pay transparency, Iceland's model is an exemplary model in terms of the requirement by law for transparency of the remuneration concepts that form the wage mass. It is precisely in the complements, as you rightly said, where the issue is, and the lack of control and monitoring of these wage complements, which are the ones that make the difference, that the opacity of wages contributes. Lack of knowledge and lack of information therefore fuel the pay gap, especially in the application of wage supplements, the quantification of overtime and other increases. Access to this information by workers' representatives primarily, but also by workers in areas where there is no trade union representation, is key and essential in order to be able to provide information and to have rigorous statistics that will then allow us to influence in a much more effective way the elimination of the wage gap. Acting not only in the private sector but also in the public sector is welcome and essential, as well as strengthening the role of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate as a monitoring body in the implementation of the legislative framework on labour legislation, redundancy is worth it, which would be much more feasible if such transparency and permeability were to exist in all the remuneration concepts that comprise the wage mass and, of course, information, information and information. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group will support the handling of this bill, as it cannot be otherwise. They will never find the Socialist Party in a position other than the incisive and purposeful defence of women's equality in this country, whether in the field or not. That's how we've always proved it. Mrs Reyes, for your peace of mind - you have been worried because we have tabled a proposal for a law too - I have to tell you that you do not worry. We have tabled a bill because we have been expressing it for a long time in this House. In fact, in the previous legislative period, in the previous legislature, we have already mentioned it and, moreover, in this legislature we have put forward twelve proposals on this subject. We have been working on this and, therefore, we are going to introduce it, but it is not going to be any obstacle for us to agree with the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to get a bill, because in the end the objective is the same, it is the one we share, and it is the effective fight against discrimination against women in the labour market and in many other areas; let us start here. Of course I do. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, I simply want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this has been the legislature of the fight against gender-based violence. We have agreed all the parliamentary groups on that common goal that we share. This must also be the legislature to combat discrimination in the labour market of women, and in that we must also make an effort to eliminate the wage gap definitively. Exactly one year ago, this House unanimously agreed that the Government should bring to it a bill to eliminate the wage gap. You have failed to comply with that unanimous agreement of this House. Therefore, as the Government is failing to do so, we no longer have any remedy for the opposition, in this case the main opposition group, to claim and put on the table bills that would eliminate the inaction and the lack of political will of this Government. [[Applauds]] There you will always find the Spanish Socialist Workers Party for ideology, for conviction, because we have proved it with the facts and, ladies and gentlemen, always for them and always with them. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cancela. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Villalobos Talero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, we are discussing in this House an issue that affects society as a whole. In the 1950s, many problems arising from the wage gap between men and women had already arisen. We have talked about this in the ILO, in the United Nations, in the European Union, etc., as we have been talking about the need for real equality for women for many years. This is a much more complicated issue than what can be expressed simply in a legal text with twelve modifications of different articles because it has much more to do with the point of view of a woman, like me, who has been fighting for many years - many - to achieve that equality and who sees with real concern how today's society, young people are increasingly macho and believe less in equality. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I am deeply concerned about that and you too should be concerned that you are young. That's why my boyfriend asks me for his cell phone because he wants to see it and he won't let me wear a miniskirt, that's what young people do, and I feel like the soul has to say it, but it's a reality. But today we are going to look at a very specific issue, which is that of discrimination in the remuneration of women vis-à-vis all men. As I said before, it is a complex and difficult issue. Here we are looking at it from a deeply voluntary point of view, with a very clear objective of trying to solve the problem, I am convinced of it, no one has to convince me. I am convinced that the measures proposed at this time by the Confederal Group of the United People's Party and the confluences, all of them, are something that we all want, that we all want to happen, but from my point of view they sometimes lack reality. Last Thursday we adopted a motion in this House following an inquiry by the Socialist Group, which was unanimously adopted with an amendment by the Podemos Group and another by the PDECAT Group, where something was said that is fundamental to me: the need for a solution to this problem to be achieved through social dialogue. The role that social dialogue has played in our democracy has been fundamental to progress in equality, to progress in an increasingly protective Workers' Statute. At the moment it cannot be envisaged that a law, apart from something that we adopted a week ago, will be the universal panacea, I am sorry to say that no, that I do not think this goes along that line. I think it is necessary to restore social dialogue. Here I have not heard the spokesman of We can speak at any time of social dialogue. I don't know if you don't believe in social dialogue, I don't know if you think we all have to be the same, I don't know if the private company looks like a monster to you and we all have to be civil servants. I do not know very well because I do not understand what the real ideology of the Members of Podemos is. The Socialist Party spokesman spoke of collective bargaining. What do you mean, there's no collective bargaining? More agreements are now being signed than ever before. What happens is that in collective bargaining the role of trade unions is fundamental to the defence of these rights. I miss in collective agreements a lot of measures that regulate this equal pay. I find it incredible that the government is said to do nothing, that the government is not moving, because I sincerely believe that you know that you are lying. A long time ago, the Minister for Employment came to make clear what was being said at this time at the Social Dialogue Bureau on Equality. The roles I have in my hand are from November, and in them what the Government is proposing for social dialogue are precisely the measures that you, the spokespersons, have all said here and which we all share. This is precisely what the social dialogue is talking about; it is talking about ending the abuse of temporary contracts; it is talking about issues that affect women, such as all workers. Speaking of data, Mrs Reyes, everyone here uses the data he wants, but I understand that there are European data, from Eurostat, which are compared to all the countries of the Union. In this particular case Eurostat says that at the moment the wage gap in Spain is 14,4 %. There are seven points less, for example, than in Germany. This may please some or others, but it is the comparison with all the countries of the European Union. [[Applauds]] It's still high, very high, the difference has to be zero, we have to go to zero, but it's not certain other data that can be used, by many professors or many numbers that you want to bring here. Of course there's that gap! Of course there is, we all know, but one of the formulas for ending it is employment for women, training for women and greater education for women, and I believe that this is being done and is important in recent years, apart from demagoguery. Honestly, Mrs. Montero, you're an expert in demagogy. [[Rumors]] What you've done here this afternoon is real demagogy. I don't know what your mother taught you. I do know what my mother taught me. My mother taught me how to fight for my rights; my mother, a woman who could not be trained, taught me how to fight for the equality of women, as I teach my daughters and try to get my daughters to teach my grandchildren. At least don't you come to me and tell me that Mothers of We can be better than Mothers of others. We're all the same, Mrs. Montero, the same. [[Applauds]] I don't know her mother, but she must be a magnificent woman and a born wrestler, for sure. It is good enough of so much cheap demagogy, it is good enough that the People's Party is absolutely macho. This society, unfortunately, is macho. And if we talk about machismo, Mrs. Montero, you're surrounded by machistas, because someone who says that what I would do with a journalist lady is whip her until she bled... I didn't know that wasn't machismo. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That person fights with a journalist and, when he sees that he has already become very angry, he scolds him as saying: Man, that I am Paul Churches. That's it, man! It is good enough to give lessons from what you lack! [[Applauds]] A phrase that I love: Feminizing politics is building community in study centers, in health centers; that's what we traditionally know because we have had a mother, that is, care. What you want is for women to keep on taking care of, and women are not willing to keep on taking care of, we want equal work. [[Protests]] So, Mrs Montero, less demagogy, more reality and more working together for something we all want: equal pay, in what this government has been working on since it was six years ago. We will continue to fight to achieve that equality, and you will cease to be so demagogy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Villalobos. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING LAW 50/1981 OF 30 DECEMBER, RELATING TO THE ORGANIZATIONAL STATUS OF THE TAX MINISTRY. [[File number 122/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u23	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, amending Law 50/1981 of 30 December, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u24	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a proposal for a law which my group is presenting and which proposes a profound reform in a key institution in our rule of law: the prosecutor's office. A law, that of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, dating back to 1981, which has undergone successive reforms, probably the most important one in 2007, a reform that made important progress but that for us is absolutely insufficient. The first thing we have to do in relation to an institution like this is to point out the constitutionally recognized role of the prosecutor's office. The prosecutor's office is regulated in Title VI of our Constitution, in Article 124, and is therefore within the judiciary, in which it is integrated with functional autonomy, this is very important for us to say; the prosecutor's office is the judiciary. In no case does our Constitution define it as a belt of transmission between the executive branch and the courts; some have that consideration, but of course it is not as reflected in article 124 of our Constitution. Well, what is the drama in which this institution lives? That despite this configuration, for forty years, in our entire constitutional regime, we have had an institution permanently subject to debate and political criticism; we have had an institution in which citizens have come to the conviction that the Attorney General of the State is the Attorney General of the Government and not of the State. [[Applauds]] That is what we intend to change, first of all, with this proposal for a law which, I say again, is part of the express recognition of the constitutional status of our fiscal ministry. You will recall over these forty years such cases as that of the Attorney General of the State Don Eligio Hernández, with his appointment declared null by the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court; you will recall those phrases of the robes and dust of the road; you will remember, more recently, what has happened with the appointments in the field of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which even came to the reproach of the former Attorney General of the State, or even some very unexplained issues, such as the cessations of the two Attorney Generals General of the State at the previous stage, in some cases after having made significant criticism of the Government's action. This, I say again, comes to point out that both the Socialist Party and the People's Party have considered this to be an institution - one more - that was at their service and not at the service of the citizens. But the principle by which the prosecutor's office has to be guided is the defence of legality and the general interest, the defence of citizens' rights, and also - what a paradox! - the defense of the independence of the judiciary. These are the functions assigned to him by the Constitution. What is the content of this reform? It basically covers three issues. The first, as I have told you, is to expose the Attorney General of the State of the Executive, of the Government. For that we have to address the appointment system and the cessation system, we have no doubt. We have done so by seeking to be respectful of our Constitution. One can argue, one can assess whether some or other majorities are necessary, but it is essential to achieve this dual legitimacy; that is, the capacity to propose remains resident, because this is pointed out by the Constitution, in the Executive, but which also has the endorsement of a very broad political majority, with the endorsement of this House. We do not think of this as a privilege for political parties, no, it is precisely the main defence shield to get that institution out of the political debate and give it the necessary consideration. [[Applauds]] That is why we are addressing that method of appointment that gives rise to this double legitimacy. Already in 2017, with the latest reform of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, a step was taken by introducing his appearance before the Committee of Justice of the Congress of Deputies, a purely formal appearance, without any decision-making capacity, but it is already a step that was taken in the right direction. Let us continue to take steps and truly come to that double decision. We establish a two-thirds majority, but in this, as in other aspects of the law, we are open to setting up other majorities, but of course that double legitimacy seems absolutely essential to us. Next block of issues that deals with this law. To really try to build a genuine honorary curriculum in the fiscal career, that appointments within the fiscal career are presided over by criteria of merit and capacity. Look at what paradox, ladies and gentlemen, the appointments of the fiscal career are currently made by the Government. That is why the idea underlying the entire organic status of the prosecutor is the Government's. They are proposed by the Attorney General of the State but appointed by the Government. I'm talking about the top of the tax race. We believe that in this we must achieve a much greater internal balance of the functions of the Attorney General of the State, with a much more relevant role of the Fiscal Council, a Fiscal Council that truly reflects the opinion of the fiscal career and therefore has a decisive role in these appointments. Another thing that has not been developed but that already appears in the current Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office is the commission, that permanent evaluation service that really establishes criteria of merit and capacity, which are the ones that have to govern the appointment of prosecutors. Also, as I told you, an internal balance within the race, and the third fundamental objective, is to provide material means. Please note that in this House we had to quickly and quickly adopt a moratorium on the entry into force of the Civil Prosecution Act because prosecutors' offices are not yet able to accept notifications like the rest of the legal operators. This gives us an idea of the abandonment of the Government to this institution for so long; it has not provided it with sufficient resources and therefore we had to agree on that moratorium, that exceptionality, at the very request of the fiscal career itself. But we're not just talking about the media, we're not just talking about a real tax office, we're talking about giving it organic, functional and budgetary independence. I will read a few words in this House not so long ago, specifically on December 5, 2017: How do I think the prosecutor should be more independent? I think it will be more independent when it has a functional, organizational, media and even budgetary structure that does not make it dependent on the government at all. If it does not depend on the Government at all, neither budgetly nor from the point of view of its structure nor from the point of view of being able to receive any indication, then it will be independent. We therefore propose that the prosecutor's office of the Ministry of Justice should be dismissed. So far the quote; these are the words, this is the request made to us in his appearance by the current Attorney General of the State and in this line goes the reform that citizens propose today. Look, this is so simple as to agree, for example, on a commission of service or the travel allowances of prosecutors who have to go to a particular province or city to investigate a case of corruption have to be authorized by the Ministry of Justice. Do you believe that in these circumstances we have a real independent prosecutor's office from the government? I don't think so. We therefore take note of what has been requested of us even by the State Attorney General at his last appearance. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the basic lines on which this reform is built. We are talking, therefore, about a constitutionally-respected prosecutor's office that is capable of fulfilling its mission of defending the legality and the rights and duties of citizens and also has the necessary resources to combat corruption. And why are we saying this? Because we cannot continue with this institution in the ongoing political debate. You have used it as a pimpampum throughout all these years of government; every time there was a State Attorney-General appointed by the Socialist Party he was criticized for bias by the People's Party and, vice versa, when the Prosecutor was of the People's Party, you criticized him for the same reasons. We have to get that institution out of that political debate, so that it can truly fulfil its role, and that is what we are calling for. Two reforms that go along this line and are simple are, for example, that the duration of the post of Attorney General of the State is not inextricably united, as is now the case, with the legislature, in such a way that it is appointed by the Government and also ceases with it. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we are able to make this reform - which I know will cost some of you a lot because it has taken too many years to manage the internalities of the judiciary and the prosecution, it has taken too many years in which you have not wanted to renounce the politicization of justice - but, as I said, if we are able to deal with this reform, we will also be able to deal with the long overdue reform of the criminal process. But, of course, if we are not able to change the current configuration of the prosecutor's office, that will be an absolutely forbidden debate; therefore, the modernization of our criminal process also passes through this reform of the Organic Statute of the prosecutor's office. Finally, I would like to address the Members of the People's Party. Look, beyond all these considerations, what we are asking you to do is to comply for once with the investiture pact, the 150 measures that allowed Mariano Rajoy to be invested as president of the government, that pact that we complied with; it was not easy, but we complied with it and therefore today we have the president of the government and is called Mariano Rajoy and is of the People's Party. What we ask you to do is to keep your pact with us for once, to abandon marasm, immobilism, to abandon non-compliance and to comply with paragraph 143. As simple as this. For you it is no longer just a question of a more or less questionable political criterion, it is that if you decide to block the processing of this law, you will prove that you do not have the slightest will to comply with that parliamentary pact that has allowed you to retain the Government. [[Applauds]] Point 143, Mr. Hernando; there you are, read it. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: I read it!]] It's very simple and I think that has to force you to comply with that agreement. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, look, when we reached an agreement with Mr Pedro Sánchez, also in the spirit of unlocking that Parliament, we also agreed with you on the reform of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and on a very similar line. It was precisely there that this Congress of Deputies could reject by a majority the proposal made by the Ministry of Justice, the Government. We continue to raise the same issue. We continue to think the same as when we signed that agreement with Pedro Sánchez. I do not know whether you today, at the height we find ourselves, think the same, but if you were a little consistent you would certainly not deny us that you failed to comply with the Constitution when it was you who signed that which we present today as a proposal for law. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today you have a magnificent opportunity to demonstrate that the depoliticisation of justice in your case is more than just words, which you are able to translate into facts. Prove it with facts and vote in favour of this bill, which is also the fulfilment of their respective commitments. [[Applauds]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Prendes. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the beginning of June 2017 there was a unique correction to record two proposals for legislative consideration, both relating to the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. The United Parliamentary Group took the lead for a matter of hours We can, although today, for that of the quotas, we discuss the proposal of Citizens, which in turn anticipates the pre-investment agreement signed with the People's Party. We are certainly faced with a reform that needs to be undertaken, but because of the matter in question, nothing less than about justice, a matter that is very delicate, it has been dilated over time, but not out of indolence or whim. [[The lady]] Article 124 of the Spanish Constitution refers to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, granting it an institutional guarantee which was the basis for the light in 1981 of the ordinary law to give the body its statute and also its own legal personality. It is precisely this institutional guarantee that we have an obligation to safeguard in order to strengthen the autonomy and effectiveness of the prosecutor's office, and for this it is essential to do so with a vocation of unity and a desire to seek the largest and broadest agreements. The road to the registry that I recalled at first already shows two different formulas to undertake a crucial task such as to modify the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, a work necessarily calm for which it is also essential to give participation to the Attorney General's Office and also, in addition to other areas of the judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the legal world, to the associations of public prosecutors. Its spokespersons already anticipated interesting points of view and considerations before the Committee on Justice, diagnosed problems and pointed out possible remedies. Ladies and gentlemen, almost eleven years ago the last reform of the law regulating the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office was made from discord and disregarding a substantial part of the General Courts, which involved not a few negative aspects, some certainly undesirable and harmful, such as the bleak politicization that leads to discredit and suspicion. Restarting today out of pure opportunism the return to those walks would be the worst that can be done and the complex parliamentary arithmetic, not to say the parliamentary attitude of engulfment and confrontation, does not augur this tempered work and in search of the greatest possible agreement. Being necessary, as I said before, to oxygenate the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, this processing that we are proposed has the appearance of ending as the rosary of the dawn. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u27	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, today Citizens bring us an initiative in favour of depoliticizing the figure of the State Attorney General; ultimately, the depoliticization of the institution of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Citizens therefore consider - and he has said so - that the figure of the Attorney General of the State is politicized, is in too much connection with the Government, with the government power. He believes so much that he even gives a lethal stockade today to the pact for justice by presenting a singular, individualistic and individualistic initiative on this issue. It seems logical; if the Attorney General of the State is appointed by the Government, it seems logical to think that the Government will appoint someone close to his loyal knowledge and understanding, and if, in turn, the Attorney General of the State appoints other prosecutors, the network of similar opinions is served. And so far we'd agree or we might be. However, Citizens preach what they do not practice, because it turns out that Citizens are a palm tree - not the only one - of the judicializing work of the policy that, at the hand of the Attorney General of the State, the Government has initiated on the Catalan question; palm tree also of the persecution of political ideas that differ from the one thought; palm tree in the elaboration of specific criminal behaviors in order to be able to incarcerate ideas. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I rise again sad to this rostrum, sad because we have just accompanied four good and democrats to give a statement to the Supreme Court, at the request of the Government at the hand of the State Attorney General, for their ideas, for having fulfilled the democratic mandate emanating from the ballot box and revalidated on 21 December in the Catalan elections. [[Applauds]] Today, as a result of this politicizing action of the Government at the hands of the Attorney General of the State, whom Citizens consider to be effectively politicized, there are still four political prisoners without trial, without sentence, in pre-trial detention, Jordi Sanchez, Jordi Cuixart, Oriol Junqueras and Joaquim Forn, whose freedom we demand. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, without condemning such an abuse of fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms, how dare you present such an initiative? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Because we're Democrats]] They're not credible, it won't come out with our support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u29	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u30	Thank you very much, President. We are presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group with a proposal for a law on partial reform of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, which we will no longer support, for the same reasons that we have not supported much of the parliamentary initiatives that have been presented by this same parliamentary group and other groups - the last of them United We can in December last year - to the extent that they were coetane and their content treated by the subcommittee set up within the Committee on Justice for the establishment of basic and most transversal parliamentary agreements that inspire and guide the adequacy of the Administration of Justice to the reality of the current needs. And we do not share the way in which citizens proceed since the initiative now under discussion was presented last June, just fifteen days after the three tax associations appeared in the Committee on Justice in order to present their views on the work of the subcommittee. In other words, just listening to the associations of public prosecutors presents this proposal of law, apart from the work of the subcommission in which he was participating. We can only describe this, at least from our point of view, as political opportunism and inform us of the citizens' interest in reaching basic and as much-shared agreements as possible on the current needs of the public service of the Administration of Justice. Their understanding of this issue, it seems, does not pass through a conception of the agreements that leads to the accession of different sensibilities through respective renunciations of those positions which, for various reasons, cannot be assumed by others; in short, seeking what unites and separating what divides. What now presents us Citizens, for time, way of proceeding and for its content, does not cease to be a drag, a take or leave it. Therefore, as we have already put forward, we will not support this proposal, without prejudice to our perception of the prosecutorial ministry. Indeed, this ministry has, in our view, among its main problems its politicization due to the interference of the Government in its activity, being the reform of its organic status a necessity to reverse this situation. The more complete compliance with article 124 of the Constitution calls for the establishment of a Public Prosecutor's Office which is not seen as a leash for the transmission of the Government to the courts because, as has been said in many forums, the Public Prosecutor's Office is not the State's Advocate. It is therefore important to strengthen the autonomy of the prosecutor's office, whose lack is seen as its greatest lack and which directly affects its perception of impartiality, a principle of autonomy which must be fully realized both ad extra, towards the Government and the Ministry of Justice, and ad intra, since the criterion of unity of action and its instrument, the hierarchical unit, must be achieved in an objective and transparent manner. Legal certainty, of which the two criteria of unity of action and hierarchical dependence are debtors, must be achieved by means of general written and reasoned orders and not by specific orders from the chiefs to the prosecutors of the case. This autonomy ad intra of the prosecutor's office also demands to articulate internal counterweights through the collegiate bodies that modulate the powers of the individual chiefs, uniquely through the boards and the prosecutor's council, because the latter, as has also been said, is the internal counterweight of the prosecutor general, the voice and last protection of the race and the belt of transmission between the latter and the prosecutor general. The work of the subcommission has already progressed in this direction, in which it is considered that the prosecutor's office should be reoriented, which is to strengthen and guarantee its autonomy ad intra and ad extra, as I have pointed out, and very uniquely as an inexcusable requirement to assign to it the direction of the investigation in the criminal proceedings, so that the functions of investigation and guarantee of rights do not fall within the same institution. This determination in criminal proceedings is accompanied by many other measures provisionally agreed within the subcommission to strengthen and guarantee the autonomy of the prosecutor's office without prejudice to the unit of action and the principle of hierarchy. In this context, it is misunderstood that Citizens present to us this proposal of law, unless they have decided to subordinate the achievement of a modernizing impulse and with the vocation of permanence in a public service essential for citizenship and economic progress as is the Administration of Justice to a partisan, opportunistic and above all media position, something to which, on the other hand, we are already accustomed. I'm finishing up, President. Citizens, last week, at the monitoring session of the Government, he informed us that he had abandoned the subcommission for the modernization of justice because the system of election of the judicial officials of the General Council of the Judiciary did not take this House in a total, absolute and radical way from that election process, without admitting proposals from the rest of the members of the subcommission, which brought the current situation to much more limited powers in this House. Now, Citizens present to us a proposal for a law in which the election of the Attorney General of the State, who, as he has told us, is a decisive residence in this House, is also judicial power, contrary to what the Constitution says in its article 124. That is why we were saying, without exaggeration, that the position of Citizens is partisan, opportunistic and media, but above all contradictory. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u31	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u32	Very nice late. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish State is the third largest in Europe, independent of the European Union's judicial systems, according to data from the European Commission itself. It occupies the number 25 of 28 States. The Council of Europe places Spain as the least successful State in combating the politicization of justice; of the 21 countries analysed it is number 21; it has ignored three out of four recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Group of the Council of Europe, the Greek Group, and with regard to the report of the World Economic Forum, published in September last year, exactly the same. We therefore conclude that there is no judicial independence in Spain; there is no judicial independence according to the data of the European Union, the Council of Europe and the World Economic Forum. What is in Spain are political prisoners, as was said earlier. The Kingdom of Spain is an imperfect democracy. In Spain there is confusion of powers, which does not separate powers. The Supreme Court and the prosecutor's office have organized a real judicial circus for Catalan independence leaders. They want to scare them off because they are independent, because they act peacefully, because they believe that a political conflict in a state called democratic could be resolved politically and democratically. In the Spanish State there is, as I said, no separation of powers; I insist, there is confusion of powers. You, ladies and gentlemen, on the trio of 155, have sacrificed any minimum reminiscence of the already fragile separation of powers. They have preferred to sacrifice everything to deny the right of Catalans and Catalans to decide their future. I say all this - let me say it - because the prosecutor's office, the public prosecutor's office, has certainly contributed to the contempt of the rule of law in the Spanish State. The Spanish prosecutor's office, together with the prosecutor general of the State, the already reprobated and deceased Mr. Maza, at the head, twisting the law and pursuing intentions, thoughts and ideologies, has turned criminal law into a right more proper to totalitarian regimes than to a democracy of long tradition and advanced, in which what should be pursued are typical and punishable actions and facts. No one escapes that in the Spanish courts and courts, due to the ineffectiveness of the Attorney-General's Office, they prescribe crimes. There are convicts who walk through central European capitals being condemned, or skiing in Baqueira; among them, the king's brother-in-law, but, of course, his proposal for a law does not intend to face all this. You, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, are not opposed to the prosecutor's office, absolutely politicized, making phone calls and following the guidelines of the Government of the State if this serves to eradicate independence. You do not submit this bill because you are concerned about the course of action taken by the Attorney-General's Office, for example, in relation to the exercise of the right of defence under article 24.2 of the Constitution or the full exercise of the right of defence under article 118 of the Criminal Procedure Act in relation to the open macro-case against independence. You are delighted with this inquisitorial system, in which certain investigators are required to always answer the Public Prosecutor's Office and to abjure their ideas. While the prosecutor's office is busy persecuting rappers, such as Valtonyc, sentenced today to three and a half years for the lyrics of a song, you should be concerned whether or not freedom of expression is being defended; or twisting legality, as is the case with Vice President Oriol Junqueras and Councillor Joaquim Forn, who are in pre-trial detention, accused of crimes of rebellion and sedition, without any kind of violence, absolutely peaceful people imprisoned as a precautionary measure, breaking any kind of principle of presumption of innocence, which in addition, as if terrorists were involved, are hundreds of kilometres away from their families; or people like Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, leaders of organizations that have promoted the most important, absolutely peaceful and democratic peaceful mobilizations in Europe. These people are in prison for a crime they have not committed, accused of violence that has not occurred; they force the independence leaders to parade through the Supreme Court and the prosecutor's office, meanwhile, has refused to investigate...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u33	Mrs. Capella, you have to get to the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u34	I'm on it, Your Honor. I'm just talking about the Public Prosecutor's Office. The prosecution has refused to investigate the global performance...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u35	Mrs Capella, when the Presidency calls the question, it has called the question.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u36	I'm going to the point, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u38	The prosecution has always refused to act against violent groups that act with impunity on the streets of Catalonia in unionist demonstrations. While all this has happened, you, Lords of Citizens, have said absolutely nothing, and today, using the work of the Sub-Committee of Justice, using the work of others in an unfair way, you are presenting a bill that is not yours but the project that is the result of the work of the Sub-Committee of Justice; you, taking advantage of this situation, are going and presenting it. Therefore, you are not concerned about the model that the Public Prosecutor's Office should have in the Spanish State, nor are you concerned about judicial independence, whether or not it defends freedom of expression, freedom of association, the right to strike and other things that are being violated. Today, in a disloyal way with the rest of the members of the Committee on Justice, they are presenting a project with a single purpose: to try to hang a medal that does not belong to them. Faced with this disloyalty, Esquerra Republicana cannot say anything else but axixi no; therefore, we will not vote in favour of this proposal for citizens' law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u39	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u40	Mila esker, president andrea. Pick it up on. No one escapes the important role of the prosecutor's office in a rule of law. The prosecutor's office has the function of protecting the rights of the most vulnerable, the victims of crime, or the protection of the legal assets which the whole society considers most desirable and which are at every moment an expression of a criminal policy which the Government directs as a legitimate democratic expression of the will of the citizens. This is the case, and I never thought that a criminal lawyer like me, used to hitting on prosecutors, would have to say it. It is indeed so, that is, it is the prosecutors who carry the work of the courts day by day who bear the burden of defending the fundamental rights and duties of citizens and materialize their demands in the courts and courts with better or worse fortune. It is to these people that we must pay attention, because their work is important on that day to day and because they are the ones who are really defending these rights and materializing them in concrete people who have faces and eyes, which is what matters in the day-to-day application of the law. Then there are other things that worry us at a slightly more macro level, such as the independence of the prosecutor's office, etc., but really, when you talk to the prosecutors' associations, the prosecutors on foot are worried about two things. First, the criminal policy of this Government, which, with the principle of zero tolerance, has devoted all its efforts to popular illegalities, petty crimes, fast trials, etc., devotes a great deal of effort to the persecution of issues that in the social sphere represent a great mass of crimes but not of great gravity to the detriment of others. If we talk to them and they, what they tell us is that they need more means, another Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, another workload, a more democratic distribution of matters and that the Ministry of Justice does not curtail their autonomy. [[Rumors]] Finally, that the day-to-day life of these working people be more enjoyable and able to perform their function independently, because independence often does not give it the coercion or direction of a boss, but rather gives it the material conditions of daily work that for them and for them it is what determines their quality. That is the first demand, which is not from now on, but is a long-standing one; a demand for modernization of the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office that allows all of this. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u41	Wait a minute. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u42	Here several speakers have spoken about the State Pact for Justice and how this debate is somehow biased and comes to interrupt this pact of State in which supposedly all and all of us would agree to generate a new Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. This is actually much simpler. The agreements that we had, and the agreements on which all the groups were generating a certain consensus, were that, of course, we need a new organic status in the prosecutor's office as a preliminary step to assume new functions of the prosecutor's office in a hypothetical criminal prosecution law, in which the prosecutor's office once and for all assumes the issues of investigation and prosecution of crimes, rather than the investigating judge. That is why we need this organic status, and we also need, of course, to strengthen the government's disconnection from the prosecutor's office. Because, let us not be mistaken, this debate is not from now on; this debate has taken a long time and this debate has put a long shadow of suspicion on the actions of the prosecutor's office, which is appointed directly by the Government, in which nobody has anything to say, which not only directs policy in general - as we have already talked about - but unfortunately affects particular cases, as we are seeing day by day in the media on issues affecting the Government. Therefore, it is urgent to address it, because if not, the question is very simple: When do we do it? At what point are we not going to be opportunists, are we going to be able to open the debate and are we going to be able to generate an ideal bubble state, in which the debate is going to be clean and clear and no one is interested in another matter? What time is that going to happen? There is no such moment in politics. The moment may be right now, that we urgently need that modernization and that shift from words to deeds. In that we agree, not only because associations and prosecutors are demanding it from us on foot, but because the political moment, especially the present moment with very ardent and blunt cases of corruption, is demanding a response to us in the sense of generating that independence. Having said that, we and we have registered a proposal for a law that raised the possibility of disconnecting the figure of the Attorney General of the State of the Government, but we do not agree at all with the position of Citizens in this respect, since we believe that it may be of dubious constitutionality, according to the ruling of the Constitutional Court 49/2008. Therefore, we will maintain our proposal that it be this House that can propose a tern and thus control the suitability. There are also two very important things; the first would be, since we have had a previous debate on parity, that it is mandatory that there are women in that suit to break the glass ceiling that the judiciary has; and the second, to ensure the suitability of the prosecutor's office in terms of merit and capacity. As we agree to open that debate, we do not agree with this specific proposal. We will be able to discuss some other issues, such as the existence of specialized teams, administrative autonomy, strengthening of councils and, above all, that the instructions are public and in writing to ensure that there is no such obscurantism again and that we do not give the shows that are being seen every day in the media. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u43	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are addressing a proposal for a law that seeks to amend the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. It does so from a striking but at the same time enlightening statement of motives. It tells us that the great problem lies in the fact that a shadow that affects the proper functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office and its performance is entangled. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, there is no shadow over the performance of the 3,000 prosecutors who beat copper every day, over what is a shadow is the lack of means, the lack of human resources and procedures that start from the 19th century. [[Applauds]] And when you keep reading, perplexity invades you. We are told that the solution is very simple, that you have it and as always it is easy: to remove the prosecutor's office from the party debate. And there's so much panchos left. One reads the single article, which affects 17 articles of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, its transitional provision, its derogatory provision and its two final provisions, and that is where one already realizes that this is really the core of the entire modification of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions as regards the appointment of the Attorney General of the State and the powers of the Fiscal Council. They're going to allow me a little reflection that I think comes to mind to address what we're talking about. The constituent of the seventy-eight - it is true that today it is questioned but for many it remains a great constituent - establishes in article 97 that the Government directs the internal and external politics of the State, and internal politics is also criminal politics. Then 124 tells us what is constitutionally expected of the prosecutor's office: Promoting the action of justice. Paragraph 4 also provides that the king shall appoint him, on a proposal from the Government, after hearing the General Council of the Judiciary. Citizens and all those who have voted in favour of this proposal, it is logical that those who lead the internal policy name the people at the head of the institutions. It is nothing embarrassing that the Government can appoint the Attorney-General of the State; it is neither shameful nor degrades the quality of the democratic system, because that is what the systems of democracy are for, which is the game of government control. But before we go into the details of the joint, we're going to go into another point. When we talk about functional autonomy, Mr Prendes, we talk about two issues related to the fiscal ministry: functional autonomy and organizational autonomy. Functional autonomy refers to the appointment, how it exercises its immobility, how it carries out its task and how we shield the fact that it is subject only to the rule of law. And then there is the organic part, which you are much less interested in, which is career, promotion, disciplinary areas and two other key areas... [[Mr. Prendes Prendes pronounces words that are not perceived]] Wait, Mr. Prendes, I'll tell you; don't rush. Two aspects; one, which provides functional autonomy and true operationality to the prosecutor's office, which is its normative capacity, i.e. self-regulation; and two, its budget singularity. Well, you guys don't pay much attention to this last one. Reconsider the second final provision - it must have been forgotten, because I hoped to hear why they justify it - where we are told that the government will issue the regulation in six months' time. But aren't we giving him autonomy? Really give it to us, because, what is really what you propose to us, what is proposed by the Citizens' Group to the House: a consideration on the appointment of the Attorney General of the State. I'd love to get into the whole joint but I don't have time; I'm going to be left alone with point 15 and the next one. Point 15 tells us that the King appoints him, on a proposal from the Government, when he hears - introduction - the Fiscal Council and the General Council of the Judiciary, and with the procedures provided for in the following point. What are the procedures for the next point? Those who say that it is the Chambers that have to choose them with two thirds. [[Mr. Prendes Prendes pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yeah, look at it. And if with those two thirds it does not pass on to the Justice Committee, the government will have to forward another. Careful. Review - because the hemerotheques are for that - page 239 - add it - of the electoral program with which they attended the 2015 elections: We cannot do this because it would cause a change in the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Now that's no longer necessary. No, you, with the idea of the parliamentary prosecutor, what you are doing is altering the entire democratic system because really all you are interested in is legal dislate by scratching at unconstitutionality, according to your 239, and of course what I can tell you is that with clear populist dyes. That is not the strengthening of the prosecutor's office, it is precisely in granting them these organic mechanisms. Talk to the 3000 prosecutors and see how they tell you that what is needed is to have regulatory capacity and self-management capacity, i.e. budget, uniqueness and budget individualization, to enhance Article 72, and that's what you don't do. I will tell you one thing, with the issues of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Attorney General's Office - or the Attorney General's Office, which is the only thing that concerns them - embody Stevenson's work The strange case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. That's you. When we talk about the General Council of the Judiciary, those directly elected by the judges come here and have become debilitated - those judges can no longer be part of the General Council of the Judiciary -; instead, regarding those of the prosecutor's office, blessed be because they are purified when they pass through here. There's no one who understands you. [[Applauds]] On this path we will not strengthen the democratic system because it is done by not getting up and going to the French of the committees. That is why my parliamentary group is telling you that we are not in a position to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u45	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Molinero Hoyos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u46	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a law presented by Citizens, not without first showing the Minister - although not this one - the support of the People's Party for all the management it has been carrying out and thanking him for his commitment and his dialogue attitude, as well as for the search for the consensus that is continually bringing to this House, despite the disloyalties of some parties. The reform you are presenting is media, as the spokesman of the Basque Parliamentary Group has very well defined. It's a press reform, it's not a quiet reform. Citizens, if I had to define your intervention in the Commission, I would do so with three words: disloyalty, incoherence and non-compliance with the pacts they signed with the People's Party. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, Read agreement 131 and 143. Read them to him. I have recently heard your leader, Mr Rivera, say that we have to work for Spain, and the truth is that I fully subscribe to that expression, but that is an expression; it is not reality. The reality is his departure from the justice subcommission so as not to work for Spain. That is the real reality. You leave the justice subcommission not before you have called a press conference and you leave us with a year of hard work. That is the position you are taking in the Justice Subcommittee. That's a real disloyalty. To be working for a year so that you, for no reason or just cause, abandon the Commission is a real disloyalty. The Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá, has repeatedly - I would like to remind you - undertaken not to undertake any structural reform of justice until the conclusions of the Justice Subcommittee have been drawn. You have not allowed the conclusions of the Committee on Justice to come out and you have tabled a reform which I will now describe from a global and articulated point of view. They have failed to comply with Covenant 131 because they have left the justice subcommission without signing the national justice strategic plan. Besides, you said we didn't do it. We cannot keep a pact in which you intend to violate the Spanish Constitution, as this reform does, and I will explain to you why it violates it. That is why we cannot follow that pact. I would worry about who supports this initiative, who supports this reform that you are proposing. Many times I wonder that, with friends like you, why do we want enemies? Because we don't come out of one disgust after another. With regard to the general assessment of the content of the reform, it seems to me to be parliamentary frivolity to present a legislative initiative of the magnitude of the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office without having passed through the filter of the consultative bodies of the State. Neither the Council of State nor the Fiscal Council nor the General Council of the Judiciary has issued a report. It seems to me to be a real fear, in addition to the fact that they are even talking about reforming the Constitution. But it also has certain relevant defects or deficiencies, and I will tell you that. It has a hasty wording, antinomies and redundancies appear in the precepts. It strengthens the reporting unit of the State Attorney General, but gives orders and notices without any control. It ignores the recommendations of Greek - of the six Greek recommendations only contains two - and fails to comply with the recommendations of international transparency - of the twelve recommendations its reform only contains one -. From a particular assessment, you speak of budgetary autonomy. If article 72.3 of the statute had been read, they would have understood that budgetary autonomy appeared. The need, as the spokesman for the Socialist Party has put it, is not only in the budgetary singularity, which has been reflected in the general budgets of the State since 2010, but in the budgetary self-management, and its reform does not contain any of that, it does not address that issue. With regard to the Attorney General of the State, I recognize that we have been surprised here. The reform of the State Attorney General is a surprise. They propose that the appointment of the Attorney General of the State be made by consensus of two thirds of this House, and say that it is to depoliticize justice. Precisely you left the Justice Subcommittee because you did not want the members of the General Council of the Judiciary to be appointed by this House. Look at the consistency you have! [[Applauds]] On the one hand they say that the prosecutor is appointed by the House and, on the other hand, that he is appointed by the Council. What's more, when they talk about quorums, they put in a two-thirds quorum. You know very well that this is a blockade, that the Attorney General of the State who is first appointed is unfortunately going to retire as the Attorney General of the State because it is going to be blocked, just as members of the Constitutional Court and the General Council of the Judiciary will be blocked. As far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, the system of choice they pose is a real barbarity. If the system of choice of the vowels is through the implementation of the open lists and naming two vowels of the nine eligible - here the subconscious has betrayed them because they are officials -, the result will be disastrous because for the appointments it requires 70% of the votes. Minorities will therefore block such appointments easily and no appointments will come forward. It's one of the sticks he's got. On the other hand, I remind you of the breach of Pact 143. They committed themselves to demanding twenty years of profession for the State Attorney General; they have now placed twenty-five. In short, we cannot support reform; we really cannot. However, we appeal to their political responsibility and ask them to return to the subcommission, to speak there, to dialogue, to agree and to draw an organic status from the prosecutor's office in accordance with the real needs of the subcommission and, at least, to endure in time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u47	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the official non-recognition of the distinctions and titles of nobility. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and get to know the arguments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party for which they are going to reject this initiative by Squerra Republicana, which claims that the Spanish State does not recognize existing distinctions or titles of nobility and does not grant new titles. We will be told that they do not imply any status of privilege, that this is a historical memory for which their concession is justified, that they have a mere symbolic value and that they reward exclusively merits and services. In short, this is marginal, it is an institutional, not a truncated, area in relation to the system of democratic values. But, from the outset, all this should not be so linear, so simple or so simple because in 2005, at the height of Rodriguez Zapatero as a champion of progress and committed, yes, to burying aznarism, the People's Party and the Socialist Party jointly presented a bill to guarantee the equality of men and women in the transmission of the titles of nobility. That is, that right and left not only chose not to question the titles of nobility but quite the contrary, they were conjured up to adapt them to the new times in order and effect of perpetuating them. In short, encrusting in the twenty-first century an institution periled by the same progress. Then, I repeat, neither should they be so symbolic nor should they be so marginal. Obviously, of course they are not, because, ladies and gentlemen, they contain an undemocratic historical legacy that by assuming it becomes a parapet to modernity. This is an anomaly - one more - of the many democratic anomalies that are now installed and chronicled in the Kingdom of Spain, like so many others, from systemic corruption to the deterioration of civil rights through repression in the face of the democratic demands of the people of Catalonia or the very existence of political prisoners. None of the point is baladi. Are the titles of great Spain - for example, Casa de Alba - not the expression of domination, of the exploitation of Andalusian peasantry? Is not the association of nobiliary title to reaction irrefutable and paradigmatic? It is only necessary to go back to the twentieth century with Alfonso XIII granting noble honors to the dictator Primo de Rivera; Franco, genocidal Franco, since 1948 granting noble titles to criminals, to persons to whom war crimes such as Mola, Moscardó, Queipo de Llano, Yagüe or to ideologists of fascism such as Onesimo Redondo and José Antonio Primo de Rivera, or Juan Carlos I himself granting noble titles to his business friends or to the Franco family. What merits, ladies and gentlemen, were they intended to recognize and how is it justified today that they should be maintained? Faced with this, an elementary reminder: in the most democratic periods either they were suppressed or they were considered: Cortes de Cádiz, I República and II República. Today there are 2,700 noble titles in the Spanish state. What I'm wondering is how a Democrat like all of you are, or how a deputy or a socialist deputy can't be twisted in the guts when it comes to withdrawing the title of nobiliary from a coup when they murdered thousands of Republicans, many of whom were socialists. I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that the answer lies in the fact that it is not something symbolic, but rather something profound because the debate is intrinsically linked to the monarchical institution, a non-democratic medieval institution, based on the transmission of power through inheritance, which the Spanish Constitution resolves with the greatest of contradictions. Article 14 states that all Spaniards are equal before the law, without distinction on the grounds of birth or social circumstance, while at the same time other articles consecrate that the Crown is hereditary, that the Head of State is irresponsible and that the male prevails over the woman in the line of succession. All this obviating the illegitimacy of Borbonic restoration, the illegitimity of John Charles I and, therefore, of Philip VI; hereditary transmission, ladies and gentlemen, of illegitimacy. A monarchy restored by the dictator, denying the possibility of deciding the free citizens of the current Spanish state, because in the years 1977 and 1978 we were free or not? Then, if we were free, why did the citizens not have the right to decide whether to opt for the monarchy re-established by the dictator, for a king who had sworn the fundamental principles of the Movement and complicit in the dictatorship, or for the republican legality aborted by arms in 1936? Faced with this blatant illegitimacy, it is his need to elevate a constitutionalist discourse that perverts, hides and silences the reality of the restored monarchical institution. That is why today you will keep the noble titles, always vigilant in the defense of the monarch's powers. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, we owe it to those republicans and republicans who have been unjustly forgotten in the Transition and to those who continue to be so today in all the nations of the current Spanish state, from Galicia to the Canary Islands, from Andalusia to all the Catalan Countries. Also to those Republicans who will come, from whom we are the seed today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, no one is more than anyone, which is why today I hope to have the support of all those men and women present in this House who deeply feel Republican values. Ladies and gentlemen, republicanism. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u49	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. In Spain, the granting of titles, honours and noble distinctions is symbolic, regulated, subject to the laws and also to their endorsement by the Government, hence it intervenes to express my total disagreement with this initiative which seeks to disrupt any tribute of the State linked to the recognition for the transcendental participation in a historical fact, the tribute for some merits and a trajectory of extraordinary relevance or the reward for outstanding services rendered to the nation. In its article, the Spanish Constitution provides that the king, as head of state, is to grant it under our rule of law, in which it is the General Courts that approve the laws and all Spaniards without exception we have an obligation to respect and comply with them. It is pertinent to stress something as elementary as the duty to comply with the law because in recent times the antagonistic attitude of politicians in Catalonia is seriously harming all Spaniards, starting with those who live there and damaging our good image before the world. Quite the contrary, by the way, Mr Tardà, that a previous correspondent of his, co-founder of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, President Tarradellas, who precisely because of his active participation in the exemplary process of the political transition and his contribution to the unity of Spain was distinguished in 1986 by King Juan Carlos with a noble title, the marked Tarradellas. It is normal that by then such a relevant and historic member of the Republican Left of Catalonia would accept it, because already the Constitutional Court itself had unequivocally determined that such distinctions have no more prerogatives than their use and protection against third-party claims. Abnormal, nothing. Today, in the middle of the 21st century, in a democratically consecrated Spain, its possession does not grant any state of privilege as it is a merely honorary distinction, as stated in its explanatory statement the law which almost twelve years ago - you recalled - equalled men and women in the order of succession of titles of nobility eliminating discrimination against women. By the way, then you, Mr Tardà, and your colleagues abstained from that vote of conjuration. Maybe you remember. I'm done, Madam President. Now you want to, gentlemen of the Republican Left, get on the mountain and pretend that others will follow you on an anachronistic journey, in view of this non-law proposal and your misguided intervention. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u51	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will defend the position of the Democratic Party, which will be the vote in favour of this Republican Left initiative, not from the mountain, as Mr Martínez Oblanca pointed out, but in the name of liberal values. It was a debate of the liberal constitutionals, it was a debate of the Courts of Cadiz and even before, of the beginning of the Modern Age, that of the overcoming of the Middle Ages with what assumed a noble and aristocratic system, characterized by values such as force, fatalism of destiny or courage. And as my colleague Feliu Guillaumes - a deputy and philosopher - pointed out very well, a new stage has arrived and this was that of the liberal and bourgeois revolutions that crossed all of Europe, where trade, industry, the culture of the pact, the culture of the transaction, the values of equality between citizens: free and equal citizens before the law; the culture of equal opportunities, respect for the word given, the culture of effort. In short, the Modern Age, the liberal and bourgeois revolution, could be summed up in the word virtue: virtue versus force. That is why, Mr Oblanca, we are not going to quote President Tarradellas, we are going to quote Adam Smith to say yes, that the modern age is linked, not with governments that ennoble citizens, but with governments that bet on liberal values. By the way, Madam President - and this concludes - there is another parliamentary group in this Parliament which claims to be liberal. Let us also see your arguments in this interesting debate put to us by the proposing group. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u53	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u54	Thank you, Madam President. On 28 October 1746 an earthquake followed by a tsunami completely devastated the city of Lima. Then, a Spanishman, José Antonio Manso de Velasco, had just taken possession as Viceroy of Peru. He believed that he was going to live in a prosperous and rich city and what was found was a place reduced to rubble. Manso de Velasco then imposed the titanic task of rebuilding Lima and did so in two years, a record time. The king of Spain therefore distinguished him with the title of Count of Superunda, so that his name would always remember that he had managed the city to resurrect on the waves. Three centuries later, percent, the Limenos continue to remember his name and that act. This biography is one of so many characters that enrich our common history, such as that of the Countess of Benavente, who commissioned her first paintings a young unlucky painter then named Francisco de Goya; or those of Paio Gómez Chariño, Lord of Rianxo, who in the thirteenth century laid the first stones of Galician literature; or that of the Countess of Pardo Bazán, Mrs. Emilia, who faced her class, in her time and as a woman to be a novelist; or that of the Duke of Suárez, who carried with her hand a fragile democracy, or that of the Marquis of Del Bosque, who agreed to an entire country winning a football world. Nobiliary titles are nothing but the expression of our history. A while ago, my niece asked me if a Marquis was paying a salary for being a Marquis. I explained to him that having a noble title does not entitle him to any privileges. The nobles are ordinary people who bear a name closer to what they have and thus keep the memory of someone who has done something good for our country. My niece was ten years old, while the authors of this non-law proposal are Members of Parliament who are supposed to have a minimum of training and common sense, but, given the GNP, it gives the impression that the gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana believe in good faith that the graduates enjoy tax exemptions, vital incomes, castles with almenas and, at best, even the right to stay. I don't know what world they live in. [[Applauds]] They say that noble titles are things of the Middle Ages. I do not know very well how this persecutory mania of the remote past is combined with that obsession of his to boast of ancestral traditions, of feudal institutions. [[Applauds]] I have heard them speak to the satiety of President 130 of the Generalitat, to boast of the exploits of Wifred the Velloso, to organize every year coffers in Fossar de les Moreres to burn the decrees of the new plant of Philip V. You don't want to hear about blood inheritance or family trees, but then your leader, Oriol Junqueras, is sick of talking about the genetic proximity of Catalans to French. [[Applauds]] Forgive me for telling you this, because they're modern, but I don't think there's anything more anachronistic than genetic battles. What are we left with? Despite his appearance as a revolutionary charade, his proposition is not harmless. In the background they seek the usual: to eliminate everything that somehow remembers what vertebrae us. It bothers them that something can remember episodes of history that make us bigger, be it the reconstruction of a devastated city or the triumph in a football championship. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, the quota of initiatives that you can bring here is very limited in number. Do you really think it's welcome to bring this subject to plenary? Don't you think the people you represent deserve a little more than this snob stick you brought here today? [[Applauds]] Do you think that out there is a majority concerned that there are a few men and women whose only privilege - Mr. Xuclà, of course they are equal before the law - is that they bear a name more attached to yours? You see what a great thing! I propose something to you, let's go do a survey wherever you want, to the Carrera de San Jerónimo or to the Ramblas of Barcelona, let's ask people to find the twenty things that worry them the most, to see how many say that what they worry about is that there are counts, dukes and brands, to see how many answer that. [[Applauds]] Do you know what the problem is? It's been a long time since you've been interested in what people really care about. They come here to spend as little time as possible - the other day a newspaper report reminded us that you are the most absentee parliamentarians in this House - and when you come up to the rostrum you come out to tell us these things; one day you bring a printer and today you are proposing to take names from the world of common history. Have a little respect for your status as public servants, get to work on serious things and stop fooling those who pay their wages. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u55	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I give the floor to Mr. Exposito Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u56	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Or, rather, given the nature of this debate, good afternoons, fellow Members, good afternoons, fellow Members. According to the latest report of the European Network for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, the rates of people at risk of poverty in our country are almost 28%, almost 38% in young adults. In the face of such emergencies, as has already been said in this rostrum, what is the point of discussing noble titles? Although it seems a trivial issue, the relationship between proper names and institutional recognition of distinctions is not necessarily a minor issue and perhaps something has to do with the existence of social inequalities that we drag into history. This proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra proposes to urge the Government to stop recognizing the existing distinctions and titles of nobility, also committing itself not to grant new ones in the future, and proposes it by establishing a link with three other moments in the modern history of Spain - the liberal trienium, the I and the II Republic -, moments when the State disagreed to recognize this type of exaltation that originates, as has been said, in the Middle Ages. Unlike these other three impulses of democratization, with the advent of democracy after the Franco dictatorship, the State not only did not disinterest itself in recognizing such distinctions but, on the contrary, ratified Franco's 1948 legislation and revalidated the hereditary mechanisms of such distinctions. That is what allowed King John Charles I to create or grant other new powers, which have been inherited by the current monarch Philip VI. Our confederal parliamentary group agrees to recognize the importance of symbolically linking this proposal with those other historic moments of progress on equal rights. We are also convinced that we must eliminate as much as possible the differences in official recognition between people on grounds of origin, birth or inheritance. But if we are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, it is mainly because we believe that we do not have to keep this Medievalist residue within an advanced democratic state. During his tenure, King Juan Carlos I granted more than half a hundred new titles, the first being the Lordship of Meirás and the Duchy of Franco with Grandeza of Spain, titles which held as first holders, respectively, the widow and daughter of the dictator. This reminds us that in the existence of nobiliary titles is inscribed the recognition of historical privileges, many of which are based on regimes or behaviors contrary, to say the least, to democratic values. I do not know whether it is a humorous act or a gesture of poetic justice that the leadership of my group has entrusted with defending in this rostrum the meaning of our vote in this debate on titles of nobility to a Member of the House of Commons. At this point I will be allowed to tell a brief personal story. When, when I was very young, I began to be interested in the origin of my last name, someone told me a story that I could never corroborate. At some point in the end of the dictatorship, some anti-Franchist social workers carried out symbolic action on the names of the boys and girls in charge. Freed from the obligation that for many decades was in force to mark the hospitiens and the inclusiveers with surnames such as Exposito or Church, they decided to name them in the Civil Registry with surnames of nobles of Spain. Discovered the cake, these helpless were forced to register again, this time with banal surnames. It is certainly an apocryphal story, but I think it comes today to the following: those of us who have inscribed on our behalf our common origins know that Law 33/2006 of 30 October is contradicted in its terms when it states that the possession of a noble title does not currently grant any status of privilege. He lies about this law and lies about it because the mere recognition of some surnames on the part of the State is already in itself a form of privilege with which we have to end. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up, President. One of the most popular passages of the Quixote is that in which Rodrigo Díaz advises Sancho when he sets out to rule the Baratarian island: '... blood is inherited and virtue is acquired, and virtue alone is worth what blood is not worth.' This quote reminds us that within modernity there has always been a struggle between the elite recognition that inherits the cradle and the socially consensual recognition that emanates from civic virtues. The most virtuous moments of this House have been starred by people of common origin: the modest daughter of a seamstress who precipitated the recognition of the female vote, the first Afro-descendant deputy, the worthy voice of the Andalusian journalists, the woman of the Gallarta mining area, who sat here behind me at the old bureau of the first democratic courts after the dictatorship, and the first socialist deputy in the history of the Spanish Parliament. These last two cases, check out where, both with parents marked as exposed. In June 1985 this House voted on a proposal similar to this one. The entire opposition unanimously endorsed it, but it was defeated by the absolute majority of the People's Party. Today, with other proportions in the Chamber, we have a new opportunity to recognize those virtuous plebeian moments in this House by calling for our legislation to ensure a little more equality for the future without distinction of origin between all citizens. Thank you, President. Thank you, fellow Members; thank you, fellow Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u57	For the Socialist Group, Mr Muñoz González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u58	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to set the Socialist Group's position on this matter of rabid topicality and of such interest to the citizens of our country, who are waiting for Congress to devote Tuesday afternoon to these kinds of issues. However, at least we can bring the Republican Left back to law, because it is only intended to modify, repeal or amend that on which it is recognised that action can be taken. While it is true, Mr Tardà, that I recognize you with little originality on this subject, since I coincided with you in 2005 and this is nothing more than a short and sticky exercise of the amendment that you presented at the time, that initiative which then came out for equality in the succession of nobility titles in the bill that was passed with your abstention, by the way. You did not defend that initiative in the Commission, and you merely took it into consideration, but you and no representative of the Republican Left did not come to fix the position in that Committee on Justice where this matter was discussed. Then and now it continues to make the same mistake in relation to the legitimacy of the political regime that we Spanish and Spanish enjoy. The legitimacy of our political regime in the 1978 Constitution derives precisely from the adoption by the vast majority of the Spanish, and from them, particularly in Catalonia, through a referendum; a referendum which in 1978 approved a Constitution which in its preamble states that Spain is a State of law and that that State of law guarantees the rule of law as an expression of popular will; and establishes a derogatory provision, the third, which allows us to say that its affirmation in the text, as it was then and is today, is absolutely rude; there is no legitimacy that supposes to go against the Constitution. It is true - it has been said here too - that in 1997 the Constitutional Court decided on a question of unconstitutionality that was then raised by the Madrid Provincial Court and we are not very proud of what it decided at the time. We are more proud of the particular votes, among others, of a judge of the Constitutional Court then, Don Carlos Viver Pi-Sunyer - which you must recall - who had a dissenting vote with the one who was majority in the Plenary of the Constitutional Court. At that time, because of those circumstances, when the Socialist Party came to power again we proposed that initiative, which we thought had its logic, since the scope of what noble titles meant was fixed by the Constitutional Court, although there had already been previous judgments. In the light of that question, it was necessary to establish that at least the principle of equality should prevail and that is why we put forward that non-legislative proposal. Mr. Tardà, you're confusing things. It does not give more importance to this issue because it does not have it; it does not even give more importance to it than that given to it by the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court clearly established that to hold a noble title does not in any way imply a status or a status or a privileged condition nor does it imply the exercise of any public function. That was dictated by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 1982. Mr Tardà, this is an initiative that makes no sense. If you wish - because this is a power under article 62, to make distinctions under the law - to submit a proposal for a law so that in one of the measures this can be done, for this is one of those acts in which the head of State has to act under the law. Mr Tardà, as I say to you, this is an initiative that is meaningless. With regard to some of the initiatives that have been mentioned or some of the titles that have been mentioned, I must say that they disgust both the comrades who have said so and those who are currently speaking from this rostrum. Those who refer to the dictatorship or the dictator will have to be reconsidered through the amendment of the legislation of the historical memory, which, by the way, brought to this House a government of the Socialist Party, that of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. The Socialist Party, Mr Tardà, is a radically democratic party, absolutely involved in the 1978 Constitution, and it seems to us that these kinds of statements can be grandiose, providing an afternoon of some relaxation in this Parliament, but no one questions that England is not a democracy because there is a House of Lords, by the way, a House made up of the most honorable spiritual and temporal lords. Nobody says that's why it's not a democracy. Or, as is the case in a place that will seem closer to you: in Belgium, a country to which you greatly appreciate, there is the Noblety Council, which depends no more or less on the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that is not why they question their democracy. Let us therefore address important issues, as the representative of the Asturias Forum has said. When Josep Tarradellas was awarded the mark, a historic justice was done on the part of who today is the Emeritus King and we are very much in agreement with what was said in that concession decree. The serious thing is that he who was a real exile did things to be recognized by the then king, a real exile and not exiled to 4000 euros in mansions in Waterloo. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Esteller Ruedas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to determine the position of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Tardà, you ask the State not to recognize the titles of nobility on the grounds that it is an institution of the Middle Ages. We have evolved a lot so far, Mr Tardà, and you always interpret history or stay in the chapter that interests you most to manipulate it and make it clear that there is no quality democracy in Spain when it is quite the opposite. The aim of this proposal has been his intervention: his will to discredit the institutions. In this respect, your intervention shows that the political reason for this proposal is to delegitimize the institutions. On the other hand, there is also a great will to destroy what Spain is and what it represents, and as the noble titles represent the so-called common history, you want to eliminate them. In addition, they are consubstantial to the monarchy and therefore use them to erode it. This is the reality and political reason why you are presenting this proposal here today, because it does not make any sense at this time. In Spain there are no privileges, we are all equal, we all have the same rights and obligations. In a social and democratic state of law, we all have equality and dignity. Therefore, there is no priority or privilege of any kind. Nobiliary titles are no privilege. Since the year 1820 the noble title has had a symbolic meaning and a merely honorary character. They are linked to tradition and history without any recognition of a specific status or any counter-performance on the part of the State. They have all democratic legitimacy and are endorsed by article 62 of the Constitution. In Spain the titles are considered a recognition to a life or professional career linked to the service to Spain for being an example of loyalty, delivery and commitment. There are nobiliary titles based on trajectories of all kinds and conditions: great scientists, military, creators, writers... For most of them there is a great honor that implies responsibilities and obligations to their ancestors and also to Spain. Let us review the titles that have recently been awarded, especially those granted by King Juan Carlos I: you have already highlighted Tarradellas' brand for the Transition; Adolfo Suárez, also for the Transition; Camilo José Cela, Nobel Prize; Valentín Fuster, for cardiovascular research; Vicente del Bosque, for the promotion of sports values; José Manuel Lara, for the services provided to culture; Roser Rahola, Baroness of Perpiño, for her work in the cultural field in Vicens Vives; the Marquis of Samaranch, because she managed to bring the Olympic Games to the city of Barcelona, in which there has been a substantial change. Do you consider these titles to be a privilege or a social class, as you also claimed in your manifestations? Not at all. The societies thank those people who have had a bond that have contributed to society and whose trajectory has benefited the whole, in this case, Spain. In Catalonia we also have the Creu de Sant Jordi, which is also a recognition to value a trajectory and which has no other connotation, because the connotation you say implies discrimination towards others and in Spain, as I said, there is equality and there is no discrimination, treatment of favor or status because of having a title. Do not seek through this proposal to delegitimize democracy or monarchy. Do not attempt in this case to delegitimize the monarchy. The monarchy is recognized in the Constitution. It is a form of state voted for by 90,5 % of Catalans and by all Spaniards, but I am referring especially to Catalans because the monarchy is loved in Catalonia. It is a vertebrating institution of the constitutional order, symbol of unity and architect of the transformation of our country into a consolidated democracy, a democracy with values such as coexistence, justice, freedom, equality and political pluralism. King Philip VI is a 21st century king committed to the exercise of his constitutional functions in defense of legality, as we could see before the independence challenge of the Government of the Generalitat, when he defended all those who are in Catalonia and felt Spanish. Therefore, he is a king at the height of the circumstances and at the height of the institution he represents. Mr Tardà, what bothers you is that the noble titles represent the trajectory and history of Spain. Let us assume Spain, respect modern history, the history of present-day Spain. Now that we are celebrating the 40th Anniversary of the Constitution, we value the great capacity for understanding and the spirit of reconciliation and overcoming the Transition. If we review history, we can see that the darkest and most devastating episodes were caused by intolerance, disobedience, disrespect and the imposition of one upon another. Therefore, let us respect history, respect Spain, respect traditions and all those people who have made it great and who through their actions and activities have become beneficiaries of these titles. Many of them are Catalans who have worked hard to serve Spain. We can therefore be proud of our history and of being part of modern Spain today. [[Applauds]] - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, MR. CAMPUZANO, RELATING TO DEROGATING THE REAL LAW 15/2017 OF EMERGENCY MEASURES ON THE MOBILITY OF ECONOMIC WORKERS IN THE NATIONAL TERRITORY. [[File number 162/000497]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u61	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, on repealing the Royal Decree-Law 15/2017, of urgent measures regarding the mobility of economic operators within the national territory. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u62	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this non-law proposal has a basic basis, which was pointed out here, in this rostrum, on October 19, which is when the validation of Royal Decree-Law 15/2017 was debated. If you read this royal decree-law you will appreciate merely technical reasons for amending the second paragraph of Article 285 of the Capital Societies Act. Now, if you attend the debate on the royal decree, immediately, when you read the speech the minister is clear to you that there was another motivation; and this motivation was no other than that on 1 October a referendum had been held in Catalonia. Do you remember? That referendum that should never have been held, remember? That referendum where the polls wouldn't get to their place, that no one was going to vote? [[Applauds]] Yes, that referendum was held not as we wanted, because, of course, it was held by harsh repression of the people who freely, democratically and peacefully sought to exercise their right to decide, their right to express democratically the collective will of what should be the people of Catalonia and the country of Catalonia. Well, the referendum was held and, of course, the Government, which had made it clear that the referendum was not going to be held, had to react to such a failure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u63	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u64	So, what happened to them?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u65	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. They occupy their seats; if they do not want to occupy their seats they can leave the Chamber, but the speaker must be heard. Go on, Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u66	Thank you very much, President. I understand that part of the House is not very interested in hearing what this speaker is going to say, but I will insist on that. He said that, given the impossibility of holding back the referendum, one had to try to act. And, as the minister said, if people voted what they voted, then let's make it easier for companies to vote, and to vote with the feet - the minister's text words -. And what they did was to amend an article in the Capital Companies Act, which, beyond trying to encourage companies to leave Catalonia quickly, what they really did, and what we tried to amend through this GNP, was to expropriate to shareholders the decision-making capacity in relation to what is basic, which is the modification of the statutes. The laws of capital companies, in Spain and in most developed countries, state that any modification of statutes, including the registered office, is the responsibility of shareholders, i.e. owners, i.e. those who invest and risk their capital to develop the business project. And this is modified; and it is modified by changing a part of this Article 285. It is said that the amendment of statutes corresponds to the general meeting, but that in the case of the registered office it corresponds to the board of directors, with a small nuance, because it is true that this issue was changed in 2015. It was previously for the board of directors to change the domicile only within the same population and this extended to the national territory, provided that the statutes did not provide otherwise. What are they telling the shareholders with this modification? Gentlemen, the statutes have to say otherwise, but do you know what happens? That they do not have to say it until the day of entry into force of the royal decree, but they have to say it again, they have to do another general meeting to agree again that the change of domicile does not correspond to the board of directors. Look at what they are saying, and they had to do so before the royal decree came into force. Absolutely incongruous. Here there were many shareholders who saw their rights limited, their chances of opposing a change of domicile proposed by the board of directors. What we ask of you in this GNP is to restore the situation, as well as another essential issue, and that those changes of domicile that have not been endorsed by shareholders' boards be so from now on. This is a simple, reasonable issue and that if we eliminate it from the context of the month of December, I'm sure most could share. According to you, this situation has already passed, there have been democratic elections called by Mr Rajoy that won those that you surely did not want to win, but the election results must be accepted. [[Rumors]] Yes, they won those who are going to run for the Presidency to the Generalitat; those who hide and do not run for the Presidency of the Generalitat cannot say they did. [[Applauds]] You know what's going on? That Mrs. Arrimadas is marking herself a Rajoy. What Mr Rajoy did not show up for the investiture is what Mrs Arrimadas is currently doing in Catalonia. Therefore, he did not win the elections; he wins who adds up. Remember it. [[Applauds]] In any case, I'm not going into numbers wars. I know that you are going to say that some 30 000 companies have disappeared from Catalonia, which has led to a major debacle in employment. I would have liked not to have left a single one of Catalonia, and I am sure that you too, but neither would you have wanted any of Madrid to have left. In the last year of Catalonia 2536 companies left. Are all the cases attributable to the trial? Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many left Madrid? They left 1279. Is Mrs Cifuentes proclaiming independence in Madrid? No, right? For they left 1279, of which 21% went to Catalonia, which is also surprising. So, there has been no effect? Of course there has been, because there has been a clear incentive. If of these 2536 companies you analyze which are of capital or multinational matrix, not Spanish, you will find very few, let alone none. Surely that will also make them reflect. In any case, we want to ensure that when companies decide to return to Catalonia they do not do so by unilateral decision of the board of directors, but that this issue is also agreed upon, such as any amendment of statutes, its shareholders, who are the real owners, the investors and those who risk their capital, and not just the boards of directors. In any case, I would like to finish my speech by asking you, of course, for your vote and remembering, one more week from this rostrum, that there are political prisoners: Vice President and Councillor Forn, Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, in prison all of them for their political ideas, and that there are also members of the Government of the Generalitat exiled. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u67	As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Firstly, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u68	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. We already stand against Decree-Law 15/2017, which today brings us the Joint Group for its repeal and, therefore, being consistent with that decision, today we will vote in favour of this repeal. We said that facilitating social change for businesses did not meet either legal or economic criteria because it already spoke in its explanatory statement of a number of special circumstances, circumstances which obviously referred to the Catalan situation. The domicile for legal persons, such as the place for the exercise of their rights and the fulfilment of their obligations, is one of the fundamental elements at the time of their establishment and must therefore be reflected in their statutes and, as part of them, their modification is the responsibility of the general shareholders' meeting. As Mr Bel also said, it should be remembered that as early as 1956, 1989 and 2010 it was said that, unless there were provisions contrary to the statutes, the change of domicile within the same municipal term could be agreed by the administrative body. Also, in 2015, a law dealing with urgent measures of competition reform extended this competence to the administrative body but throughout the national territory, provided that there was no provision contrary to the statutes, and it was also the Government itself who justified the importance of leaving in the hands of the property and the general boards of shareholders the approval and, as they said - in quotes - of something as sensitive and linked to the spirit of enterprise and its actual connection to the administrative centres as is the headquarters of social and fiscal domicile. Therefore, when the express decree was issued, we did not know what had changed, at least in legal or economic terms, to change our opinion. Therefore, no express decree was necessary for such an amendment. Let us not forget, moreover, that allowing such a change opens the door for all enterprises of the State to do so and, although social change has no economic impact, in the event that companies move their registered office to a place in the common territory because it does not imply a relocation of the work centre to another territory, it could do so if they moved that registered office, for example, to abroad or to outside territory. Therefore, what needs to be assessed are the consequences when dealing with regulations based on the short term, which are the result of short-term situations, party interests, putting at risk even the image of autonomous communities, in this case for investors and also for markets, because economic growth as well as the economy in general is weak. What we need to worry about is long-term measures that prevent or end the relocations of companies that do have a significant impact, despite maintaining the head office in a given autonomous community, because what is actually being relocated is the workplace, with the consequent loss of investment, such as in Galicia, where a large number of companies are or are establishing their production centres in Portugal. This should be of concern to administrations, because these are not short-term situations but rather structural ones. In short, our group is going to vote in favour of repealing that decree, as we said before, because it has not been due to a need for companies or to a legal need, but rather to a political need in the face of a certain situation, because the regulation of 2015 was sufficient for the administrative body of companies to agree on a change of head office by adjusting its statutes, because both the Companies Act and the unitary code of voluntary recommendations of the National Securities Market Commission establish the general board as the supreme body in the making of corporate decisions, because the rights of the partner are endangered, because it opens the quick way for any company with head office in any territory to exit from it and to establish a legal seat in another autonomous community, even if the shareholders' board is in place of its statute; because there can be corporate conflicts arising from the new area of decision-making and execution of the administrative body - actions of responsibility - because it was a measure that was more due to the use of markets as a measure of pressure against sovereignism or the Catalan state of necessity, which, on the basis of necessity, is not a regular, and on the basis of necessity. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u69	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u70	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, about four months ago PP, PSOE and Citizens voted in this House the Royal Decree 15/2017, of urgent measures, on the mobility of economic operators within the national territory. For everyone to understand, it becomes an economic 'a' for them' of the Government, another initiative of the media, political and judicial campaign against the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, which served as a tool for that lying poached on the televisions, newspapers and radios of the regime that came to say that if the referendum were voted in Catalonia, the ten biblical plagues would fall on its territory. One of those Biblical plagues was that an urn in Catalonia would cause a 30% reduction in Catalan GDP - I repeat, 30% of Catalan GDP - simply because people voted on October 1. And PP, PSOE and Citizens, in an absolutely self-harming and irresponsible act, encouraged this initiative, this legislative barbarity, to try to make up that falsehood. Four months later, we have certain questions, certain questions we want to ask PP, PSOE and Citizens. Is it true that Philip VI, the head of state, personally called Catalan companies to recommend them, being generous, to leave Catalonia? The truth is, I'm not saying it, but the Seat itself said it. If they are so interested in the Spanish economy, if they are so interested in the Catalan economy, why never, gentlemen of the PP, PSOE and Citizens, have they made such a royal decree against the 969 seats in tax havens - I repeat, 969 seats in tax havens - of the Ibex 35? [[Applauds]] We - like our mania, the mania of Bolivarian secessionists - consider that the danger for the Spanish and Catalan economy is not to vote, the danger for the Catalan and Spanish economy is to evade taxes. We also wonder that if there are 197 000 companies in Catalonia, 98.9% of them SMEs and self-employed - i.e. SMEs and self-employed are those who go up the blind every morning on the street and do not go up a glass in an equestrian circle - and if of those 197 000 companies have only announced - that they have not done - that they changed their headquarters 3000 - that quickly is a calculation of 1.4% - why do they continue to say in their media that Catalonia is a kind of Mordor in which we simply eat ballots and ballot boxes after the referendum of 1 October, when it is an economic engine, not only of the Spanish State but also of Europe? On 20 December - they no longer respect even the days of reflection - they announced in their media that foreign investment in Catalonia had fallen by 75% in the third quarter, that is, nobody wanted to invest in Catalonia because they were voting. Why then in the Financial Times has Catalonia and Barcelona just been identified as one of the best regions and cities in southern Europe to invest in this 2018 and next 2019? Why does Catalonia continue to be a leader in foreign investment, gentlemen of the PP, PSOE and Citizens? If Catalonia is going so badly, I don't even want to imagine how the rest of the state is doing. If Catalonia's GDP grew by 3.4% in 2017 for the fourth consecutive year, three tenths more than in Spain and one point more than in Europe, why do they continue to say that Catalonia suffers the consequences of the referendum? Gentlemen of the PP, PSOE and Citizens, Catalonia does not suffer the consequences of a referendum; Catalonia suffers from PP, PSOE, Citizens and its media brigade. Gentlemen of the PP, PSOE and Citizens the danger of the Spanish and Catalan economy are their policies; the danger for the Catalan and Spanish economy is not an urn, it is losing 42 590 million euros in a bank bailout that ended up being a fraud and a robbery. Anyone who wants to know how to manage an economy that goes to Estremera and spends forty minutes with Oriol Junqueras. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u72	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that Mr Rufián, after this wonderful economic lesson he has given us, left the plenary just when he was going to answer it. [[Protests.- Mr. Rufián Romero is speaking with the Madam President.]] La Caixa, Banco Sabadell, Gas Natural, Aigües de Barcelona, Colonial, Cellnex, Abertis, Edreams, Pastas Gallo, Grupo Planeta, Catalana Occidente, San Miguel, Natur House, Bimbo, Eurona, Codorníu and even the owner of the lotteries of La Bruixa d'Or have left Catalonia because of their fault, lords of Esquerra Republicana and lords of Convergence. [[Applauds.-Protests]] I'll show you the service sheet... Now Mr. Rufian is coming. I'll show you the service sheet of what you've done for Catalonia and your party, Mr. Rufián. [[The Lord]] This is the service sheet that the Catalans have left: impoverishment and massive flight of companies by incompetent policies made by incompetent and dogmatic politicians. [[Applauds]] There are 3208 companies, one third or more of the wealth of the autonomous community; 80% of the stock market capitalization; banks that have financed all the growth and industrialization in Catalonia, the Catalonia you want so much. [[Rumors]] Companies with huge historical roots, emblematic editorials that have published the best books...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u73	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u74	... in Catalan literature; electrical companies that connected Catalonia and Spain to the African continent. Codorníu - I remembered the other day in the intervention that we made on this same matter - survived the War of the Segadors - was created in 1551 - the one of Succession, survived Napoleon, the Carlist Wars, the Spanish Civil War, the economic crisis of 2007, but has been unable to survive you, gentlemen of Convergence and Republican Left; the statesmen and liberators of Convergence and the friends of Mr Rufián. Do you want me to remind you of what Mr. Mas and Mr. Junqueras said a few days before the companies left? They said that not only were they not going to leave, but more companies were going to come. Imagine how visionary they are dynamizing in a legislature the entrepreneurship of hundreds of years of Catalans in my land! [[Mrs Jordà i Roura utters words that are not perceived]] But that is not all, moreover - if you want me to give you some data on the results of the end of 2017 - a drop in retail trade of 20%; a drop in tourism of 15%, which continues - yesterday the latest data came out - a fall in mortgage transactions of 10%; loss of enormous opportunities for Catalans like the European Medicines Agency; rise in unemployment; fall in affiliations; flight from the autonomous. That's the social Catalonia you're defending, Rufián. That's the social Catalonia you're defending. But the amazing thing about all this isn't that you've boosted the Catalan economy, it's that you come here to do even more harm to it. They want to repeal the decree that allowed companies and banks to leave so as not to be ruined within the political landscape that you set up. Why? I'll explain it to you very simply, Mr. Bel, and you know it as well as I do. When there are no questions about Catalonia I appreciate you, as well as on a personal level, intellectually in many things. [[A honourable Member: Thank you!]] You understand that for companies and large banks to operate in a country they need access to the credit offered to them by the European Central Bank. Why do you think they're leaving? What would have happened if there hadn't been this decree, Mr. Bel? There would have been a corralite in Catalonia, Mr. Bel. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That's what you're asking with this derogation, Mr. Bel. [[A lady MP: Hala!]] One cannot live in the twenty-first century world of open economies without legal certainty, to see if they understand. You cannot tell people that you are going to create a parallel public fortune because they are leaving, you cannot live without access to liquidity if you are a bank, you cannot live outside the European Union, Mr Bel. That's why they're leaving, because they're irresponsible and they've thrown these companies out of Catalonia. The story they build reminds me a little - I tell you honestly - of the one the populists build in many places in the world: the enemy is always external, the enemy always comes from outside. Mr Maduro says that the Yankees and fascist and oppressive capitalism are the cause of all their problems. [[Applauds]] You have built an external enemy and all your responsibilities are applied to the external enemy. That's how it goes! I am very saddened by all this, Mr Bel, I tell you honestly, because the Catalonia in which I grew up was an open, cosmopolitan and plural land and you are turning it into an irrespirable, closed, small and increasingly poor place, Mr Bel. [[Applauds]] Above all, Mr Bel, I am saddened to think that in ten or fifteen years' time - look at the case of Montreal and compare it to Toronto - that in ten or fifteen years' time the Catalans - that I am as Catalan as you are, let me remind you that we will continue to suffer the consequences of the economic disaster that has taken place in this legislature. Finally, I am saddened that, after all that has happened, they have learned absolutely nothing from the disaster they have mounted in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u75	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u76	Thank you, President. The Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures for the Mobility of Operators within the National Territory should be called Royal Decree-Law to signal to large companies the way out of Catalonia and provoke economic fear, as that was the real objective of this Royal Decree-Law. [[The lady]] Whenever this issue is dealt with there is a ridiculous debate, some say that barely 300 companies have left and others say that more than 3000. We do not want business decision-making centres to leave Catalonia for political reasons, not 300 or 3000. We reject the government's irresponsibility, its phone calls to managers of large companies and the approval of this royal decree-law, which prompted many companies to move their head office. It was not the threat of any corralite, it was the climate that was generated and that the Government itself helped generate, as well as the lack of sense of reality demonstrated by the Government of the Generalitat, with statements by leaders stating that independence would bring companies or denying the importance of large banks and companies moving their head office. It was pure magic thought. The State has followed the strategy of punishment rather than dialogue to address the political situation in Catalonia. This is the reality. Judicial punishment because it is shameful and degrades the Spanish democracy that an abusive and unjust provisional prison is applied to Junqueras, Sánchez, Cuixart and Forn, as the ex-fiscal chief of Catalonia, Don José María Mena, or Amnesty International, have recently pointed out. Punishment and attempt of economic asphyxiation with the royal decree-law that we are talking about, to facilitate the march of companies. Paradoxically, the Government instead of offering security to companies, embarked on a campaign of declarations about the misfortunes that would fall on a possible independent Catalonia, as if it were a possible fact, and approved this decree that encouraged companies to leave. Instead of generating security, which is what a Government should do, what it did was generate insecurity. And now, another attempt at punishment because, in this race of irresponsibility, between the People's Party and Citizens want to open an educational conflict that aims to end the system of linguistic immersion, a social conquest claimed historically by families from other parts of Spain who wanted their sons and daughters to be truly bilingual. With this measure they do not know how to apply, what they claim is that a political division becomes a linguistic division and a social fracture. And we're not going to consent to that. In response to these economic, linguistic and judicial attacks, we must rebuild Catalanism; a popular, cross-cutting, inclusive Catalanism to defend the Catalan self-government and school. The popular Catalanism that is recognized in the plurality of the country and puts social cohesion and the defense of self-government before any partisan project. Look: in other countries, national conflicts are faced in a very different way. The Scottish Government's claim of independence had not been met with either the attempt at asphyxiation or punishment. The British government did not launch a 'a' for them!', but a 'with them' by entering into a referendum where the opponents of independence could argue that it was better to remain together by appealing, as Cameron said, to the unity of the family of nations forming the United Kingdom. Family of nations: plural. You, PP and Citizens, have always used the argument of fear and threat. They have never put forward a real proposal for 'better together', for dialogue and for a new agreement. And now, what's the situation? At the moment Catalonia has no government of any kind. It has no Government of the State because it is a hostile Government. Nor do we have a Government of the Generalitat that assumes the responsibility to defend self-government, to protect the school, to recover centers of economic decision or to put the social agenda at the center. The irresponsibility of the elites of the State and Catalonia is paid by ordinary people, who live with anguish the lack of solutions and the risk that this conflict will become a chronic disease. It seems that these elites have nothing to say to the 420,000 unemployed in Catalonia, 56% women. There is nothing to say to 12% of workers whose wages are below the level of poverty. Nothing has to be said to the popular classes in Catalonia. Those who are making government assume their responsibilities are the city council of Barcelona, with an international campaign to attract investment and generate economic activity, with an international economic promotion plan - Barcelona, open city -. 58% of the investments of the entire waiting state are concentrated in Barcelona. To conclude, it is time to put an end to so much irresponsibility. If you really want normality to return to Catalonia, repeal this decree of economic suffocation, put an end to judicial persecution and leave our educational model in peace. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vendrell. Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of Convergence, PDeCAT or Junts per Catalunya, you should not come to Congress with a proposal to force companies to return to Catalonia, you should come to Congress with a stable government that respects the law, that gives legal guarantees to companies and their workers in the maintenance of their jobs. [[Applauds]] Why repeal any Spanish laws now? Didn't they pass a new law with the Catalan Republic? Isn't that what it's for? And more importantly: Why can Puigdemont and company run away to Brussels, Waterloo or Switzerland and Catalan companies cannot run away from Puigdemont, you and all the irresponsibility you have shown? [[Applauds]] In case that were little, you have not realized that the change you intend to push now does not solve any of the problems that you yourselves have created. The royal decree-law would precisely serve for any company, whether Catalan or not, to have changed its registered office or fiscal office recently or not, to be able to settle in Catalonia if decided by its board of directors. Ironically, in fact, if you repeal this royal decree-law, the companies you intend to recover for Catalonia would have to go to the procedure before the regulatory change, longer and perhaps even more uncertain right now and, as you know, could not be repealed with retroactive effects. Companies wishing to return would be trapped if the House today approved its proposal. In short, what you are doing is, once again, detrimental to the Catalan economy. They don't get one right. But beyond the laws, have you wondered why more than 3,200 Catalan companies have left since last October? You and your partners kicked them out. You're responsible. You have contributed to creating an environment of instability, both political and social and also economic; a total and permanent instability in which everyone who disagreed or doubted his actions was marked as traitor or enemy. You, Members of the PDECAT, drew a republic created on the basis of an illegal decision that placed Catalonia outside Europe and outside the international treaties. First they said that no company was going to leave and that, in fact, foreign companies would fight for going to an independent Catalonia; lie. Then the companies that weren't going to leave left, and you said nothing happened, that it wouldn't have any effect on the economy; lie. By the way, if it has no effect, as you stated, why is it necessary to repeal this decree? They also said that some treacherous companies to the trial and Catalonia could march, but others would come and take their place; lie. With such a sequence, do you still miss that you would like to leave? Your lies have harmed us all, you too. Should we also force all the small savers, who, concerned, went to open accounts outside Catalonia for fear of losing the savings of a lifetime because of their irresponsibility, to have the money where the independenceists tell them on the basis of proposals such as those presented to us today? Certainly, my group believes that no one should be happy with the situation we are in. I wish you'd never come to this, of course. We must all give a great deal of thought to the last few months and years, but we sincerely believe, Members of the PDECAT, that this reflection is urgent in your case. I hope that the adoption of this decree would have had no effect on the Catalan economy, I hope that no Catalan company would have made use of this decree. Don't you think? This reflection was not one of the most urgent, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, paradoxes of politics, listening to Mrs Arrimadas use the same arguments of the most voted list that Mr Artur Mas used in 2003 and 2006 must be of these curious and fun politics things. [[Applauds]] It is true that you have identified so much with Republican Left assuming the independence that you also assume the arguments of Republican Left in 2003 and 2006. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. Mr Roca Mas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u80	Thank you, Madam President. We discussed a proposal by the PDECAT against the decree of freedom of movement of companies. I admit that I was surprised, because you have already said that you do not care about the Catalan economy, only independence; you do not care about the 'Tractoria' economy, much less that of Tabarnia, and I was shocked until I knew something that I have never seen on TV3, and that is that a few of yours are being judged to charge commissions in 2011 to companies that wanted to go to Catalonia. I suppose you must be disappointed not to make a box. [[Applauds]] The truth is that if we talk about cutting companies that want to leave a region, we have to recognize that you are a little gulfy but quite creative. What happens is that it clashes with what they said when they become supremacists, that they were business friendly, or even a Pujol said it was an economic dynamism. Golf, creativity, supremacism and, in quotes, economic dynamism: all for the modest price of 3 percent. You're a chollo. I don't know how instead of the footballer didn't take you guys in the summer. [[Laughter]] This proposition that you bring us here is a lie, as it was a lie that Spain stole from us, as it was a lie that the fiscal deficit, as it was a lie that companies were not going to go. You present this proposition to invent the umpteenth false aggravation, to nourish resentment because it is what you live in. But let's go to the debate: why do you think companies - those that can - run away from you? Is it because the PP passed a decree that gives them freedom or because you tried to demolish in a few hours on September 6 and 7 the statute, the Constitution, democracy and trampled on the rights of the opposition? Or because you tried to establish a totalitarian republic in which the president would even appoint judges? Why do you think your companies are running away? Or is it because you are committed to eliminating everything Spanish from Catalonia? [[Applauds]] If for companies the Spanish are their customers, their suppliers, their workers, a substantial part of their identity. Don't they know that if they steal a part of our identity, they steal it all from us? Don't you know that hispanophobia is a form of xenophobia? How come you're not going to run away from all of you who can? Ladies and gentlemen, the process has broken Catalonia: company dinners, family meals, chat groups... In Catalonia we suffered a conflict. It is not a conflict between Catalans and Galicians, Andalusian or Aragonese, it is a conflict between Catalans. How are we not going to have a conflict between Catalans if you have managed to get many weak in spirit to be ashamed of your parents and grandparents not because you could have done something wrong but for what you are, because you are Spanish? How are we not going to have a conflict in Catalonia if teachers have accused children for what their parents are, not for being cops but for being Spanish? With your silence, by the way, you have made all the power machinery you occupy complicit in harassing children. All this is very wrong, ladies and gentlemen, morally and humanly, because what humanizes us is to respect our elders and protect our children. How are you not going to run away from your businesses, the ones you can? But if you've become selfies with a terrorist. That's terrible! That is why no one listens to them in this world, and I would like to take this opportunity to humbly congratulate the Government of Spain on its good international work. I want to end up being a little reckless in the country champion of the self-flagellation world. I'm optimistic, I'm convinced we're going to get through the process. We have a background in which we have participated actively: we have participated in the European construction in which the Europeans have forgiven us two world wars, and we can be very proud of the Spanish transition in which the Spanish have forgiven us a civil war and a dictatorship. How are we not going to be able to get through the process? We must all be generous, abandon reproaches, lies and resentment, building bridges between Catalans, building spaces that everyone calls and no one excludes. I believe that this will bring companies back and, above all, coexistence in harmony. Some of us humbly dedicate ourselves to that and I hope that the first step is to vote that not to this proposition that what we seek is resentment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Roca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u82	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller, on the level of commitment of the Government to the reform of autonomous financing. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the decrepit Government that we are suffering cannot delay any longer a reform of the system of financing the autonomous communities that is based on criteria of justice and equality for all the territories, because when we talk about autonomous financing we must remember that we are talking about the capacity of each of the autonomous communities to deal with basic public services such as health, education, social services and dependence, to care for the most vulnerable people in society, to maintain in short the social state of autonomy, the state of well-being. And what can we do when these resources are denied us, when they are delayed, when we are faced with an exhausted funding model? The different autonomous communities - you know - have offered dialogue, presented their allegations, their demands, their proposals, but what is the state doing? Last week we had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, about the urgent need for reform of the financing system, but we only got vagueness from it, and the reality is that today we have nothing, we have no proposals on the table. We have your promises, but where are your actions? Because we are not content with maintaining an expired funding system, we are also faced with the outrageous obstruction of legislative work, of the normal functioning of Parliament and, therefore, of the ability to make policy. The reality is that today we find that every day is the same as the day before, there is no progress, because here there are certain parliamentary groups that seem to be sleeping the dream of the righteous. They understand our degree of indignation when, moreover, we Valencians continue to demand over and over again the urgency of the need for reform of our statute, related precisely to the need to reform the financing system and the demand for investment. It is simply a question of taking account of the increase in the Valencian population, which in the 15 years immediately prior to the outbreak of the crisis went from not reaching 4 million to more than 5 million inhabitants, and the reality is that the Valencian Community represents almost 11% of the total population of the State, but the investments it receives never reach 7%. That is why we want the investment of the State in our territory to be equivalent to the weight of its population, as is the case in other communities. Do you think this is crazy? Because what we think is simply a matter of justice. What is the situation with regard to the reform of the Valencian Statute? She is paralyzed since 13 December 2011, when for the first time the proposed reform of her first additional provision was registered in Congress. In 2013, the Valencian Generalitat, then governed by the People's Party, promoted a Manifest for just financing for the Valencian Community, which was supported by the different political forces with representation in Valencian Courts and with the representative organizations of civil society. And we, moreover, because by conviction no one beats us, we thought that after three times that a delegation of the Valencian Courts had come to this headquarters to defend the reform of the statute, we thought that the third, I repeat, that was October 4, 2016, would be the vanquished one. On that day, three representatives of the Valencian Courts, one of Compromís, one of the Socialist Party and another of the Valencian People's Party, explained at this venue the urgent need we need to see increased funding and investments. It is, as they argued, a question of respect for Valencians and Valencians and of recognition of the present situation of discrimination. This reform proposal - I remind you - went ahead with 298 votes in favour and none against. But despite this, where do we find ourselves now? We find that this proposal for statutory reform is paralysed, floating in the parliamentary limbo because of the obstruction week after week of the People's Party and of Citizens through the Bureau of this Congress, deciding to extend - and there are already forty-seven times, ladies and gentlemen - the deadline for amendments, without making any amendments. What kind of disrespect is this, ladies and gentlemen? And what do you explain, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to your Valencian Members every time they say no to your proposal? And why do the Valencian Members of the People's Party or also the Citizens' Party resign and simply nod against the interests of their people? We're done! Sometimes it seems that from the central government they want to drown us because in reality what they fear is that we show the state that we can do miracles simply by managing resources well. Imagine what we would do if we received what we had in justice. They are afraid that the waste of other times with the People's Party at the head of the Generalitat will be highlighted in the face of the good management that we are doing now. That may be so, but then it would be very serious because it would mean recognizing that we have a government of the State that does not care about the general interest, but simply moves through its party greed. This - I insist - would be very serious. For all this and because we are living at first hand the failure of a commitment to reform our statute is why we seek the support of the different parliamentary groups, to urge the Government to reform the financing system immediately, to make it possible to have essential public services worthy, so that the investments correspond to the population weight of our community and of all the others, and to recognize the funding deficit that has accumulated directly due to the malfunction of the different systems that we have had, as well as compensation for the fact that the new model is no longer born marred by the deferred injustice of the previous ones. A number of amendments have been tabled to our motion, which I am grateful for, but I anticipate that we are not going to accept any for a simple matter of coherence. The text that I am now presenting to you simply transcribes the institutional declaration adopted by the Valencian Courts on 26 October 2017, unanimously signed by the parliamentary groups present there. This is what I show you, in which the spokespersons of the five parliamentary groups of the Valencian Courts printed their signature: PSOE, Podemos, Partido Popular, Ciudadanos y Compromís. And now we invite all the parliamentary groups in this Congress to take into account that Valencian unanimity. Compromís defends the same policy in all the institutions in which he is present. Unfortunately, some formations have been abusing double truth, double morality and double accounting, and let us hope that when we vote on our motion we will not also encounter a double speech, because the sum of all these doubles is what really breaks Spain. We also appeal to all those who think that the Constitution is defended by imposing, suppressing or denying plurality instead of how it should be defended: by dialogue and building a future among all where diversity is comfortable and where we all have our needs covered. This begins by applying precisely Article 156 of the Constitution, which defends the general interest by guaranteeing financial sufficiency to all autonomous communities. And if the fundamental problem is that the social state is annoying, then let us be clearly told. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bataller. In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place. I give the floor to Mrs. Capella i Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, Esquerra Republicana del País Valencià, Esquerra Valenciana, Esquerra Republicana from Valencian sovereignism, coincides with the analysis of Compromís and the socialist councillor Vicent Soler when in various forums alerts that Valencian citizenship does not have the necessary tools to improve its quality of life. In other words, the Valencià Country does not have adequate funding to meet the expenses of social services and policies decided by the Valencian Courts and the Valencià Country Council. We agree with the serious financing situation in Valencia, which is a consequence of both the model and the lack of historical investment that the different Spanish governments, both of the People's Party and of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, have practiced. The investment of the Spanish Government per capita in the Valencia Country has never reached the Spanish average. If the population criterion had been applied from the year 2000 to the present, as claimed at the time by Esquerra Republicana through various amendments it submitted to the General Budgets of the State, the Government should have invested more than EUR 6 billion, an investment that would have made it possible to finance, for example, the Mediterranean corridor. By the way, President Rajoy is in a hurry now and he remembers that it would be good for this to happen. It would also have been possible to finance the GandíaDenia train from the XàtivaAlcoy line, the unfolding of the N332 in its passage through the Navy Alta or the complete renovation and adaptation of the old N340 in its passage through Benicarló and Vinaròs. The Valencià Country is a territory with a per capita income below the average and which, however, provides the State with more income through taxes than it receives in terms of expenditure or investment. It is intolerable for the Valencià Country to contribute more than it receives, when the funding system does not cover investment in education, health and social services. It is a classic of the Catalan countries. It is indecent that the solution adopted by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to date has not been to modify the financing system, but rather to offer loans, such as the FLA, which, far from resolving the problem, has contributed to an increase in debt already exceeding EUR 40 billion; debt is largely illegitimate, whereas it is the consequence of the financing and investment deficit. The Valencià Country not only suffers from under-financing, it also suffers from fiscal expoliation and this affects the lives of its citizens, their well-being and their rights. Esquerra Republicana del País Valencià has not tired of proposing reforms to solve it. Without going further, in the debate of the Statut d'Autonomia of the Valencian Community in 2006, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented amendments for the creation of the Valencian tax agency; by the way, rejected both by the People's Party and by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That is why today, unlike Compromís' colleagues, in Esquerra Republicana, we defend the Valencian fiscal sovereignty that allows the creation of a Valencian hacienda, of a tax agency of its own so that Valencians can manage their own taxes and decide their own investments and priorities and, in any case, negotiate with the State how it will contribute to interterritorial solidarity. We would like them to be more ambitious in Compromís. We understand that they certainly cannot at the moment, but we would like them to be, and that they would claim their own fiscal sovereignty. Compromise partners, let's not lower demands. The discounts will come now; they always come from the PP or the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. As long as the Valencia Country remains at the mercy of the arbitrariness of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the interests of other territories that are net beneficiaries of the expoliation to which both Valencians and Valencians are subjected, they will not be able to overcome the discrimination they suffer. For this reason, in Esquerra Republicana we defend fiscal sovereignty, because the Valencia Country does not need a Spanish supervisory state that decides its investments and priorities, it needs fiscal and political sovereignty. From the brotherhood of the Catalan countries we consider that the Valencians and the Valencians what they need is to own their destiny and the fruits of their work, because freedom is a habit and it is not easy to acquire, it is only acquired for practical purposes. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Capella. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs Pastor Muñoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening. Compromís presents to us today a motion that is the result of a unanimous agreement reached in the Valencian Community by the different political parties. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos In Comú Podemos In Marea has presented a motion in state code that we believe allows to improve the financing not only according to the population weight, but also the variables that adjust the real cost of the provision of public services in the different territories. Although we understand their reasons for not accepting any of the amendments, we think that if we broaden the look we can cover more. However, we shall vote in favour. We understand that the reform of the autonomous financing system has been and is one of the outstanding subjects of the Government of the People's Party and of the governments presided over by Mr M. Rajoy, who today we are not lucky enough to be with us. This Government has repeatedly failed to comply with the Autonomic Financing Act itself, which established that the whole model would be revised in 2013. We have therefore been years behind; years accumulating asymmetries, territorial inequalities, cutting down on basic public services, health, education, social protection, aid to dependency. The Government is in no hurry. Of course, it is the autonomous governments that articulate and manage the welfare system; those that concentrate the competences of the fundamental public services; those that need adequate funding not to sink into the austerity policies imposed on us by the Government and Mr Montoro. Within this scheme, the Valencian Community has suffered a greater comparative aggravation, because it started from a very low level of initial transfers, which has condemned us to a growing underfunding. After five successive models of autonomous financing, it has not been possible to resolve imbalances between territories or correct a resource allocation that is not governed by a rational pattern. The State suffers from a lack of public revenue, which has been considerably aggravated by the policies imposed by the People's Party. This insufficiency is reflected in eight points less public revenue on GDP; eight points less on the euro area average, which means EUR 80 billion less to finance basic public services. The shortage of funds has also forced the autonomous administrations to borrow to avoid further cuts in public services, and has created tensions between the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities. But it has also generated tensions among the autonomous communities themselves. This is a policy that seems to please the People's Party, because it generates tensions in the territories so that it can have a bilateral negotiating power. Particularly serious is the discrimination to which the Valencian Community has been subjected in terms of real investment and supposes that, since the accession of Mr. M. Rajoy to the Government, the investment in the Valencian Community is reduced by more than 80% compared to the previous time. But the problem, unfortunately, goes beyond the Valencian Community. [[The Lord]] According to the expert report, there is an estimated insufficiency in the system of autonomous financing of the environment of EUR 24 billion per year; this is almost EUR 200 billion since 2009, and this underfinancing is precisely the cause of the high indebtedness of the autonomous communities. The direct effect of these policies is the deterioration of the living conditions of citizens. Public expenditure on health and education is, as a percentage of GDP, well below the average of the main countries of the European Union. We almost didn't even talk about dependence. You know that people stay in the gutter waiting for help to arrive. This is precisely what a reform of the autonomous financing system should correct. What, then, are the principles that should govern such a system? The initial proposal necessarily involves an increase in the system's resources so that we can get closer to European standards in the provision of basic public services. It is urgent to put an end to the evil so-called fiscal consolidation policy. We need to implement a model that can be based on estimated spending needs in health, education, pensions, dependency and the establishment of a stable income base with which to finance them. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea proposes a floor of income against the ceiling of expenses imposed on us by the Government. That is why we need a reform that will increase the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities; that will give greater transparency to the system; that will help us to converge with Europe and with the autonomous communities; and that will establish minimum taxation in order to avoid unfair competition. In short, a reform of the autonomous financing system linked to a progressive tax reform that increases the resources of the system, because we want to shield the basic public services so that they never again suffer cuts in health, education and dependence. Mr Montoro, tackle the reform at once, increase the resources of the system and stop kidnapping the money of the autonomous communities, the money of our health, the money of our schools, our teachers and, ultimately, the money of all our families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bataller concluded his intervention in last week's inquiry to the Minister of Finance asking for a new funding system that must be based on criteria of sufficiency and equity that avoid situations of inequality, and from the People's Parliamentary Group we cannot agree more with this statement, but we think that the approach given to his motion must be much broader. From the People's Parliamentary Group we want to focus the debate on such a complex issue as the system of autonomous financing of people and people's needs, not territories. That is our interest and that is why we have tabled an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a cantabra, but my way of being a cantabra is to be deeply Spanish, because I believe that we are part of a common project. In this common project, the People's Party wants all citizens to live in the territory in which they live to have the same quality in the provision of their public services, and that is our interest in reforming this funding system. [[The lady]] So, Mr Bataller, we have many coincidences. The first, that the Government agrees that the current system needs to be reformed; we do not like the current funding system, in fact the People's Party voted against the current funding system approved by the Socialist Government, so we are surprised that the Socialist Party supports motions that expressly acknowledge the failure of its funding model. The Government is determined and committed to reforming that system. More coincidences: now is the right time. Why? Because tax collection is growing thanks to the economic growth and job creation generated by the fiscal and budgetary policies of the governments of the People's Party. And the third coincidence - I think we all have to agree on this - is that it is necessary to do so with the consensus of the autonomous communities, which in many cases are governed by other political parties. The reform of those autonomous communities cannot be done behind their backs and without their criteria, because then it would be doomed to failure. On the basis of all these coincidences, our amendment proposes to promote a new model of financing based on the principles of solidarity, sufficiency, equity, transparency, fiscal co-responsibility and above all on what it said at the beginning: guaranteeing access for all Spanish citizens, living in the territory in which they live, to basic public services, to the same quality of health, education and social services, because all Spanish citizens contribute with their taxes to pay and maintain the welfare state and therefore all must receive the same quality in public services. This is the fundamental premise that we are not going to give up from the People's Party because it is the center of our concern: people. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of self-government has gone through the most serious fiscal crisis in its history; that is true and we have been able to see. The Spanish Government, during the tremendous fiscal crisis, has not left any autonomous community alone and has ensured the provision of public services. Between 2012 and 2017 financial support has been provided to the Autonomous Communities through various mechanisms: more than EUR 251 billion, of which almost EUR 95 billion has been used to pay invoices from their suppliers, mainly from health care. The Valencian Community has also benefited from these mechanisms, receiving EUR 57 334 million, almost EUR 21 billion for direct payments to suppliers and more than 65% of these payments were for health services. Therefore, the Government of Spain has not let down any autonomous community and has put in place funding mechanisms, but it is clear that economic recovery is contributing more revenue. The Autonomous Communities, and also the Valencian Community, are now much better than in 2012, they provide their services and also meet the objectives of budgetary stability and, above all, they also grow their own income thanks to this increased economic activity and increased employment. And thanks to this economic recovery Spain will reach this year the highest figure of the autonomous financing system that has existed in history: more than 104 billion euros. Autonomous communities have more income and a much healthier financial situation, meeting their deficit targets. So let us take advantage of the opportunity and coincidences and not look for differences. I'm done. The Government is open to agreement with all political parties and groups so that together we can carry out the evaluation of the model of autonomous financing, which I have already said we do not like and which is very improveable, and negotiate its future, but always thinking that what we must improve is the life of all Spaniards, which must be our common goal, and always from the highest institutional loyalty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor on the position-setting table by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u91	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to say that we in this type of motion, in terms of the autonomous financing of non-foral autonomous communities, do not usually intervene because we understand that it is the autonomous communities themselves that have to decide on their reform and their financing system. But today we have seen ourselves under the obligation to intervene because Compromís has brought us a motion to reform the autonomous financing system, a motion that as drafted we will not support, and not because we do not agree that the rest of the autonomous communities have a more just system, with better funding to be able to deal with essential public services - education, health and social services - in an effective and efficient way, but because the justification expressed at its point one refers - and he says so - to discrimination because of belonging to a particular territory and for injustice. In other words, let us once again glimpse the supposed privilege in this case of the Euskadi concert and the Navarro convention. Again they show a great lack of knowledge about them, different systems in which there are no communicating vessels. While the foral system is based on an economic capacity criterion, in which it contributes to the common expenses of the State on the basis of its relative wealth, the system of self-governments integrated into the common system is based on a criterion of necessity on which they receive State funding to cover the powers transferred to them. The difference is that outside systems involve unilateral liability and risk and, on the other hand, also a correlation between income and public expenditure, which is non-existent in the common system communities. What we definitely do not understand about this motion is that they try to justify, through the alleged discrimination of belonging to a territory, the poor financing of the territories of common system because we understand that it is a political responsibility. We do not understand that you believe that trying to harm a number of autonomous communities can benefit the rest of the common system autonomous communities. The political context in Spain certainly must not make differentiated financing systems a partisan struggle, and what you demonstrate with these justifications is that at the moment in Spain it is more profitable to demand equality of rights - that is, uniformity - than to defend local specificities, and what strikes us besides you, Mr de Compromís, is that on the one hand you ask for more independence and greater autonomy, but it turns out that you are demanding centralization and homogenization of the taxes of all the autonomous communities. As I said before, a differential fact does not amount to any privilege, nor does the recognition of a difference amount to inequality, and it is that fiscal centralization is not more efficient if, as I said earlier, it is not accompanied by a credit liability. In short, with these kinds of justifications it seems that they try to seek in the differences the coupling of their shortcomings. The search for solutions to the problem of financing the autonomous communities of common system is legitimate and necessary, but let me tell you that it must be accompanied by rigour, not only in the assumption of responsibilities, but also by political rigour and respect for differentiated systems, as we have been doing. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u92	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bataller, from Compromís, brings us a crucial, very important issue, such as the financing of essential public health, education and social services, which deals with autonomous financing. Indeed, the previous model of autonomous financing - it already says almost everyone - is a failed model. In fact, we in principle see the justification and point 1 of the motion that compromises us with great sympathy because it reflects the principles of Article 156 of the Constitution that we have gathered in the investiture agreement that they like so much to comply with the lords of the People's Party in point 123. [[Applauds]] It states that we must reform the Organic Law on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities, the Lofca, in order to seek a system that does comply with autonomy, with coordination, with fiscal co-responsibility and primarily with solidarity and equality. This is a fair system that gives each one his own and in which there are no differences, or they are not appreciable, more than by the management of each public official in the autonomous community for which he is held responsible for the citizens' votes in access to public services. What have we met right now? What we now find, with official data from 2014, is per capita funding - official data from the ministry - depending on the territory where it is. [[Show a chart]] Here, in fact, Valencia is the territory with the lowest funding, it is 80% in the financing of the common system, and the highest of them, to equal tax effort, which is almost 240 %, close to the triple, is the case of the Basque Country. And Navarra is at 180%. All this is due to the financing system; to the financing system that existed before the coupon and the change in the Navarra contribution. [[Applauds]] These are plain and plain data, facts. There are, of course, citizens who, by living in a territory that has a foreign regime, have a per capita funding for the competences of education, health and social services much higher than those living in another territory. This has to be reformed. What has been the response of these gentlemen of the People's Party, who like the investiture agreement so much? For not to comply with point 123, not to comply with Article 156, but to improve and much the financing, at the cost of the taxes of the rest of the Spaniards, first of the better financed autonomous community, which is the second in per capita income, the Basque Country, through the coupon, which came to this House in November, and then to improve the financing of the second better financed community, the third in per capita income, which is Navarra, which is no longer even brought to the House and increased their contribution. Then this graph, which may not be very pleasant in terms of territorial differences, is now much worse because of what the governments of the People's Party have done with the support of the Socialist Party - by the way, the partners of Compromís in the Botànic - and with the support also, surprisingly and incredibly, of Podemos. [[Applauds]] In this respect, order is important and we believe that all Spanish citizens must have equal access to the same public services. In the previous situation it was not so and in which there are currently even fewer. What can be done to improve this, ladies and gentlemen of Compromise? You bring a non-legislative proposal from an institutional statement by the Valencian Parliament, but something more needs to be done, and it is to unlock the budgets. Because you complain about the lack of investment in the Valencian Community, but the budgets are still blocked because the Socialist Party does not want to negotiate, the Basque Nationalist Party considers that it will not sit until Article 155 is finished in Catalonia - there is the great success of giving them the coupon before they support the budgets - and the People's Party does not even bring the budgets. Evidently this is blocked. What does that mean? Smaller investments for everything because no new investments can be made if there are no budgets. On the other hand, the autonomous communities that have not had the luck of having an increase in their funding last year, that is, all but the Basque Country and Navarre, will have four billion euros more funding if there are budgets. Obviously, the autonomous communities have improved, as Mrs Madrazo said - in that she was right - because economic activity has improved, but this improvement is not reflected in autonomous financing in its main sources of income. In other words, all citizens are discriminated against in their access to essential public services precisely because of the budget freeze. Therefore, we do agree - and this is a requirement we share - that the system of autonomous financing needs to be reformed, but first Spain needs to be removed from the blockade and budgetary marsm. Let's all get to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u95	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of this motion. With it today we once again call for the immediate reform of the autonomous financing system. In this Parliament we have discussed its urgency up to four times, one in plenary and three in the Commission, and on the initiative of various parliamentary groups. In fact, two of the points in the proposal for an agreement that we are debating today have already been approved by the Committee on Finance; they reflect the feeling of the Valencian people, yes, but also that of the majority of the Spaniards, because what is intended is that the financing system should be reformed immediately to ensure the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, as set out in Article 156 of the Spanish Constitution, and to comply with the Lofca as regards the principle of institutional loyalty. Ultimately, it is intended to ensure that people are treated equally regardless of the territory in which they live. As a whole, this is a legitimate claim that must be heard, respected and taken into account. But as much as we are committed to bringing this issue to Parliament we will not be able to move forward if the Government does not assume its responsibility and puts forward an immediate proposal for funding reform in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is where the autonomous and central governments are represented. [[Applauds]] Nor will we move forward if the group supporting the Government does not cease to paralyse the amendment to the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community, which is in the process and which, as mentioned earlier, already has forty-seven extensions of the deadline for amendment. It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to reform the funding model to correct the financial insufficiency of communities such as Valencia, and it is not a minor issue. It is untenable for the Government to remain paralyzed in the face of a matter that every passing day becomes a dustbin about to explode. The Government has allowed communities to be held irresponsibly compliant and non-compliant without taking into account their starting financial situation, punishing them with interests that only increase their indebtedness and establishing objectives of budgetary stability and an unattainable deficit distribution for some of them. Airef itself has reiterated that this fixation and distribution has not met reasonable criteria of feasibility and equity, a distribution that the Government has unilaterally imposed, that it has not agreed and that it has not justified either. The Government has preferred to maintain a system of conditional loans to the autonomous communities over time without addressing the real underlying problem, which has allowed the Government to reduce the autonomy of the communities in exchange for providing them with liquidity. Less autonomy, ladies and gentlemen, is less self-government and greater dependence on the Central Treasury, which generates tensions that weaken the State of the autonomy we have acquired and that can end up straining cohesion and coexistence between people. Despite this, the Government is in no hurry to reform the funding system. In fact, it was never a priority issue for the Government, which is not surprising to us because it is the autonomous communities that sustain most of our welfare State that are responsible for providing health, education and social services, as well as the system of dependency. It is outrageous that it is not among the Government's priorities to ensure in a stable manner that these policies have sufficient resources to address, in terms of equality, citizens wherever they live. The strengthening of the welfare State was never a priority for the Government. That is, in fact, the real reason why it has not yet revised the model of autonomous financing. In 2014 I was already aware of the inadequacy of the autonomous entities and, however, it was not reviewed. The consequence of this non-revision is today the widespread inadequacy of the autonomous communities to finance their public services and a significant increase in their indebtedness, which makes it difficult to meet their debt targets. And now yes or yes, it is urgent to take corrective measures in the face of this situation. In this regard, the Government cannot evade its responsibility and must act now. For the moment, the Minister of Finance is the only one who is winning the prize for the occurrence and with it, in an irresponsible way, is tensioning the different territories. Depending on the interlocutor it is more likely to some solutions or others, showing itself unable to define and defend a serious and formal proposal on which to start negotiating. Last week the minister again evaded his responsibility, transferring it to the parliamentary groups in this House and, once again, laughed at all of us and all of the Spaniards. He said that the responsibility for reforming funding lies with the parties in this House, when he knows very well that the key to the negotiation is in his hand. If the government wants to, there will be reform. It is in their hands to immediately promote fair funding to ensure the well-being of all people, and to do so with the autonomous communities. In our hands it is demanding that it be so. And if it does not want to, the government will once again be responsible for the deterioration of the welfare and social cohesion state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u96	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Bataller i Ruiz whether your group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u97	No, Madam President, we do not accept any.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u98	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to ensure decent and quality working conditions in the digital economy. [[File number 173/000078]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u99	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the measures the Government intends to take to ensure decent and quality working conditions in the digital economy. Mrs Peña Camarero has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u100	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The Socialist Group wants to put the future of employment and the digital economy at the forefront of the political agenda, a new digital economy that brings us the opportunities that the process of digitisation but also the risks to the quality of employment and the social exclusion that it can produce for economic growth and employment, and it is our duty here to face the consequences in this different way of conceiving employment relations. [[The Lord]] So, what is our goal with this proposal? Moving from a precarious and unfair labour market to a more stable and fair one is moving from a weak and fragile economy to a stronger and more competitive economy. Because the strongest and most competitive economies are not those that pull wages and precarious jobs, but those that invest in innovation, digitisation, training and modernisation, and those that take care of their workers as a fundamental asset to bring value to their products and services. However, in the face of the new digital economy, we believe that it is the Government that has to lead, together with the social dialogue, a comprehensive strategy for sustainable digital governance, particularly in the area of labour relations. It is this government that has to ensure that new quality jobs and an inclusive social protection system are created, especially when we know that 12% of jobs as we know them today will disappear in the immediate future. And it is this government that worries us because, given this new reality of adapting to the digital economy, of something that breaks in force and has no past, this government does not have the usual excuse, the one that uses when they usually do things wrong, yes, that of blaming the one before. Now that this government has full responsibility, nothing happens. The absolute nothing, which is what the Minister of Employment told us the other day, that they are doing nothing to face these new challenges. [[Applauds]] And even if the government thinks this isn't going with them, it has to act because we're going behind the scenes, because our digitization data is bad, they're very bad at connectivity, digital skills and using the Internet. Because a decade ago some of those who make up this government said that we had to change the economic model, invest in science, in innovation, in creating added value. And what has happened ten years later is that some of them, in the government, have caused us to be even worse, that we have not learned anything from this crisis, and that with cuts in research and development we have been late in digitising the economy, once again staying behind in Europe. We are going from behind, yes, because the rest of the countries already have plans, concrete actions and a public debate on technological transformation, and here, as he would say, the government and its minister are out for grapes. And there are actions that can be taken now or that this lazy government should already be fulfilling: with regard to training, with regard to the creation of a public income and in the change of labour regulations. Our work model is not adapted to the technological innovations and structural unemployment that we suffer will soon have to add to technological unemployment. We must point out the elements of precariousness in which new technologies are affected; we must take care of a new and greater precariousness, and we must also do so with a gender perspective, so we cannot go from point to point by the labour legislation, by the labour reform of this Government. Therefore, our obligation is to ensure a framework of regulatory quality and the first step, yes or no, is to end and repeal labour reforms and return quality to employment. Although this is obviously not shared by all here, it is not shared by the Government, logically, and not by Citizens, who, through their amendments, are obviously abrogating labour reform. It must also be a political priority to end the digital divide. Half of the Spaniards do not have the digital skills to cope with this transformation. There is also a need to increase the digitization of the business fabric in order to improve competitiveness and facilitate the digital transition to SMEs with incentives for projects based on new technologies or internationalisation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u101	Wait a minute, Mrs. Peña. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u102	We need companies, SMEs and autonomous accomplices to this new model; accomplices in competitiveness and not in precariousness. And 25% of current jobs will also experience changes in their current content. It is therefore essential to articulate active employment policies and prepare workers for changes in content and the risks of future automation. It is essential to develop scientific and technical skills, to enhance STEM vocations in science, technology, engineering, mathematics. Because there are also two gaps here, the digital one, but also the gender one. So it is our duty to ensure greater participation of women in scientific and technological studies. It is, of course, essential to end up remembering a generation that will not have it so easily to adapt to this transformation, from all those over 52 years of age, many of them long-term unemployed, to whom this Government has withdrawn the subsidy. Therefore, against this risk there is an obligation: the protection of persons expelled from the labour market or with insufficient resources. New social rights and far-reaching benefits will and must be the cornerstones of a healthy society in this digital economy. I just hope that it is shared by citizens and the People's Party and that they will stop putting the blame on the process of the minimum living income initiative in this Congress. In short, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presents a concrete proposal with a country strategy that implements all the tools and tools to drive digital transformation in all citizens, in all members of society, but above all a strategy that adapts us to this change and that limits the negative impacts it can have on labour relations and the labour market. Since the Government is neither in nor expected of it, it is our duty to promote, regulate and balance this digital transition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, I have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, but at this time you will also fix a position, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is always appropriate for the General Courts to be interested in the professional opportunities that appear with the new technologies and also in addressing the negative aspects that derive from them as a consequence of the redefining of jobs or the replacement of labour by robotized machinery, issues that force us to recycle, update our digital skills and ensure job security. The very broad text of this motion contains aspects that the Government is already taking on. In addition, I would like to point out that in Spain we were able to meet the technological demands of the 21st century; in fact, a Government of the People's Party, which presided over José María Aznar, endowed the Executive with a Ministry of Science and Technology, which in 2004 was suppressed by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, and to this day. We've lost comba since then. Even today, there is still a need for the liberalisation of telecommunications, and Spain cannot adequately move towards digitisation if there are those who are trying to put obstacles. It shows that the CNMC imposed a substantial fine a year ago for a very serious infringement on the former company of the telephone monopoly for damages to consumers and companies. I was very surprised that in a motion of such content there is not a single reference to the most important challenge we have in terms of economy and employment, and that it is inescapably going through the strategy, the pillars and the road map for Spain's integration into the European Digital Single Market and competitiveness. Here are the great keys to our immediate future, which you do not mention in your text, Mrs Peña Camarero, while you turn a blind eye to the alleged evils of a labor reform that is already leading us towards the twenty million workers in the face of the labor, economic and social eirial in which the socialists became Spain in 2011, including the unnecessary reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution. Among other gaps in the socialist initiative, you have also forgotten a call to transform the concept of occupational safety and risk management, as new technologies also entail new risks and we are obliged to cultivate a culture of occupational safety that you do not even mention. In short, by lacerating the Government, a good opportunity has been wasted to make better, sensible, realistic and novel proposals on a question, that of the economy and the work derived from digitization, which is one of the main priorities of Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Peña, we thank you for the text of your motion. We know of a compromise that we are going to support, which contains substantial aspects of our amendment. We do not agree, indeed, on an issue that has to do with the regulation of part-time work, but for the sake of the progress of the motion we will vote in favour of the transaction that you have offered us. In these few three minutes I would like to highlight two considerations. Perhaps it would be good for us to be able to distinguish two of the underlying debates in your inquiry and in this motion. A first debate is the impact of new technologies, which disruptive technologies have on the regulation of the labour market and on labour markets. We are faced with one of the greatest transformations facing our economies, an accumulation of technological changes, which are multiple, which accumulate, which are of a universal nature and which not only transform the world of work but the world of business. The political effort that must be made - indeed, is being made in all the advanced countries - is in how we adapt our labour and social protection institutions to those changes that are already taking place and are going to occur more intensively in the future. It is good that in this debate we do not have a strictly defensive position, because the changes are taking place and are going to take place, and neither do we have a nostalgic position, because it is not going to be the institutions that have worked during the twentieth century in the field of labour law and in the field of social security that will give us answers to these questions. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is substantial and perhaps we are still settled on old ideas that worked properly in the 20th century but that are not the right ideas to deal with these issues. This is the challenge your motion points to little or much. The second question connects with an element that from the perspective of the Democratic Party has worried us, the specific regulation of persons connected economically and labourly to the so-called technological platforms, where moreover it is not only that we open a reflection of a global nature but that we are able to offer concrete solutions to specific problems, to companies that require legal certainty in order to be able to operate in the Spanish market and to workers who require social protection in order to be able to carry out these activities within those companies. In this regard, the text we have agreed reflects a non-legislative proposal adopted by the Employment Commission a few months ago which urges the Government to submit before the end of the current session a report with concrete proposals to give that legal certainty that technological platforms require. I hope that that mandate which the plenary will reaffirm today invites the Government to do that work and that at the end of this session we will have a road map to address the challenges in this area. In any case, you're going to count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A few weeks ago the Minister of Employment appeared in this House to put on the table, among other issues, how to meet the challenges of the future of work. At that meeting, the Socialist Group asked for an explanation of the measures that the Government had proposed to take in order to avoid - and I quote textually - the situations of labour exploitation that many of the workers of the so-called digital economy suffer. From the statements made by both the minister and the other parliamentary spokesmen, we draw a number of conclusions. The first of these is that a serious debate will finally be opened on the digital economy and work, a debate that, from our point of view, was totally necessary and urgent, taking into account the implementation and development of new business models in the form of digital platforms, the transformation of productive models, artificial intelligence, robotics, etc., and that we are therefore no longer talking about the future but about the present of the work with capitals. The second conclusion was that this debate was not to be peaceful by seeing the degree of stigmatization with which some political parties started this debate from the beginning. We do not believe that it is fair or realistic to generalize, so we celebrate this paradigm shift of the Socialist Party - the paradigm shift that comes with this motion - and that it does not start the debate by associating already from the beginning digital economy with precariousness but by talking about digitizing the economy as a source of opportunities for economic growth and employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital economy is here, it has arrived to stay and, from our point of view, an economy like the Spanish economy, which has been at very high unemployment rates for too long, the highest in our environment, cannot afford to look elsewhere. It is true that this new reality is not without risks, it is also true that we must ensure that the rules are complied with and that the rules of the game are respected, but the need to update and adapt our rules cannot be an excuse to further undermine one of the labour markets most plagued by this scourge. Accepting the supranational nature of the problem and the need for harmonisation of legislation at European level, it is necessary at national level to make the relevant adjustments so that this does not happen. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we will do this by looking forward and not by looking back, as you often do every time you bring an initiative in the field of labour or social security to this House. [[Applauds]] We agree with many of the points of this long motion; in fact, I will tell you that it has been Citizens who are trying to promote the change of the productive model, it has been Citizens who have managed to start up in the budgets of 2017 up to 2200 million to boost the innovation and the economy of the future, to modernise public employment services with new tools such as statistical profiling, to put in the hands of workers training in digital skills through the training check or to revolutionize the educational model. But you insist on repealing and repealing rather than proposing solutions and sometimes going beyond braking. I say this because by reading your motion we do not know if you say that you want to repeal the reform of the People's Party or also to repeal the reform that you did in 2010, as your employment secretary Toni Ferrer recently said, who described your 2010 reform as a strategic mistake. Mrs Peña, is your 2010 reform a strategic mistake? We do not think that the 2010 reform is a strategic mistake. You talk about going back to the past as if any past time had been better, but you know this is not true. So what is the model that you want to recover? A model that has led us to 30% temporality rates? A model that has not even been able to reduce unemployment by less than 8% at its best? If that is your model, do not count on the votes of my parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] We, Your Honor, do not want to look back, we want to look to the future, to work for a change in our country's productive model by encouraging innovative sectors with high added value jobs. We - we told the minister and we told the Commission - see the digital economy with hope, as an opportunity rather than a problem for society. However, it is true that we must act, be brave and carry out the necessary laces to adapt our rules to this new reality. We offer you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, a hand extended as shown by the amendment we have tabled to you. If you want to move forward, know that you will be able to count on our parliamentary group; if you want to look to the past, destroy the existing or compete in ideological purity with other parties, know that you will not have our support because Spain needs political parties that have a project for this country and not parties that do nothing but look at the navel thinking about what they were and perhaps never will be again. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u110	Good afternoon. The digital economy has transformed our way of communicating and consuming information, products and services, also our leisure, there is no doubt, but so far the productivity revolution that was expected has not occurred and is also not giving rise to a new generation of better paid jobs. The improvements that the digital economy and digitisation can and must bring cannot hide in this case the flagrant violations that are being generated mainly in three areas: competence, work and also the prosecutor. We have a digital economy that, despite the value it is generating, has not improved economic growth or that of workers' salaries, and in addition part of this economy is controlled by a very small group of actors. Digitization will be an opportunity as long as it is given in fair terms and it is therefore the duty of this Government to ensure the rules that make it possible. Big data, artificial intelligence, robotics or platforms of the evil so-called collaboration economy are no longer science fiction film meat but are part of our day-to-day life. Digitization reduces access, transport, storage of information and production processes, but underlies the same usual power relationships. Determining, for example, who these new information highways belong to or who and how they can access them or how labour rights relationships are conditioned is fundamental. To do nothing in this case is to bet basically on the law of the jungle, it is to act in favor of the power of the big corporations and move towards a private model in the hands of a few without labor rights. In this regard, the recent changes adopted in the United States are very worrying. They will basically allow U.S. Internet providers to block and stop data traffic at their will. What does this mean? That those who can pay more - basically, businesses and wealthy individuals - will speed up their connection speed while those who cannot pay these prices will receive a much slower service. If the public does not enter, what we are playing at is a two-speed economic development, where large companies will dominate and play basically with the growth opportunities of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are talking, therefore, about unfair competition, such as Uber's without going any further, which entered by jumping the rules, without negotiating, trying to change the rules for its interests, without guarantees, without paying taxes, etc. Recently, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union has been known, which basically says that it is a company providing transport services. Oh, what a surprise! Unfortunately, it seems that we are getting used to seeing how they disguise supposed new businesses as innovators and breakers when they are basically old practices that only seek to exploit legal loopholes. One thing is to defend innovation and another very different, ladies and gentlemen, is to pretend to be an innovator the provision of cheaper services at the cost basically of the precariousness of employment and of the none of our laws. For the democratic development of the digital economy, we must ensure equal opportunities, i.e. fair standards and compliance with them. Many countries have addressed the regulation of new situations arising from uses, such as the French disconnection law, as well as labour relations, and I wonder what Spain is waiting for to react to. Technological innovation does not in itself imply greater social inequality or more precariousness or an Orwell-style Big Brother. It is political decisions that lead us to more unequal, poorer, more opaque and more precarious societies. These are your labour reforms, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. That workers in Deliveroo, for example, run on the streets for an absolutely miserable wage, without social security, without preventing occupational risks and risking their lives to reach the end of the month is not the fault of the Internet, but of this Government, its labor reforms and its deliberate strategy of precariousness and outsourcing. The problem with the collaborative digital economy is that it is becoming a massive and normal formula for false self-government, and this strategy of precarization and outsourcing of this Government must be put to an end. Self-employed fakes, fake cooperatives, fake interns, a bunch of formulas that basically leave no cover, no rights to most workers. We have tabled amendments to this motion because we believe it is lacking in concrete terms. The development of growth requires digital communication and infrastructure to be accessible, and that can only be guaranteed by the public sphere, ladies and gentlemen. We are an export of talent and while continuing training is absolutely fundamental, it is also essential to prevent our talent, which we already have, from migrating by land, sea and air. In this case, too, the different gaps must be addressed: territorial, generational and, of course, gender. Finally, digital development cannot, of course, be an excuse to continue to externalize and precarious our lives. In conclusion, it is necessary to govern digitization in favour of the majority, basically to ensure that technological transformations contribute to the transformation of our productive model and to ensure that the fruits of productivity improvements are shared equitably and improved working conditions. Thank you very much. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u112	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the digitisation of the economy and employment, or rather trying to delineate what we mean by the digital economy and the effects that this set of technological innovations can have on the socio-occupational sphere, is not only a challenge, it is almost a puzzle. A necessary puzzle, because we only know part of the technological innovations that already serve to offer a different vision and even a different content of the activities and services of the future. To begin with, as we have seen, today we are not able to delimit whether many of them are entrepreneurial or simply instrumental in another activity. As a reverse, we are also unable to ignore whether these new activities are specific in some cases to labour law or, on the contrary, have their own substantiveity to understand them differently. What we know in some cases and understand in others is that the digitization of the economy is very intensely affecting the model of labor relationship, at least as we know it with the parameters of article 1 of the Workers' Statute. This model is characterized by the existence of an unequivocal regime of dependence of an entrepreneur to whom we attribute the organizational and managerial capacity and to whom we owe a set of obligations, but it seems that another model has been born in which these characters are hidden and their description is possibly more confusing. The issue is really very complex, but it is too important and we must be clear. There have always been, exist and there will be clear attempts to escape from the nature of the labour law of a performance activity as a result of business strategies that are undesirable and that seek to escape from labour law. That is a consequence that we must take into account and regulate as soon as possible in order to curb its effects. It is therefore not appropriate to confuse the process of digitisation of the economy, which is as incredulous and real as it is unpredictable and unstoppable, with particular fraudulent facts of the use of technology through digital platforms as a tool to circumvent the application of labour law. That cannot be just the debate that the right must face to adapt to the challenges posed by the digital economy. That is only a paradigmatic debate of what is the fraud of the law, which will deserve no other answer than its social and legal sanction. However, digital law and the economy pose a number of challenges that, with all due respect, are not being completed in a cohesive and consistent manner. Firstly, according to the sources analysed, between 60 and 85 % of the works that will exist within ten or fifteen years and that have not yet been created. Whether this statement is true or not, there is no doubt that these new jobs, which are supposed to be qualified and therefore with greater added value, can only arise in suitable economic structures; that is, in sectors capable of supporting the application of new technologies not only in the industrial sector but also in new ones. What we can see is that the production model in Spain is supported by only 16% by industry; in Euskadi around 25%, but also in this respect we have the challenge of improving. This is either a clear challenge regarding the need to change the economic structure of the State or there will be no economic platform from which to create jobs that are of quality after internalizing new technologies. Secondly, there is the qualification of training and enterprise. Either a commitment is made to training models based on technological qualification and this training process - either the basic or the university - is linked to this entrepreneurial fabric or it will be absurd to talk about quality in employment. Quality in employment will not come primarily from models of job protection, but from qualifications and added value. As long as we do not change the mentality that the price is the differential element rather than the quality of the service of the activity, we will continue to depend on precarious models of labor relationship and that is the problem. The use of the future will be of quality, because it will be provided by qualified persons in companies adapted to a competitive structure based on the quality of the product and not on its price, and such a fact requires the agents to make a greater effort, especially in qualified training and dual training. Thirdly, the motion says, there is the adaptation of the labor legal environment to our environment; avoiding fraud and identifying its characteristics. I will not extend because I do not have time, but the motion insists on it. I just want to focus on one more linked to the latter, that of collective bargaining. In such a complex, vital and continuously adaptable world, equally skilled monitoring and control mechanisms are needed, and this requires the empowerment of collective bargaining as a driving, precursor and controller of that reality. That is why, even though I have to admit that the motion has not satisfied us, we will wait for your debate to be able to support it, but we believe it is frankly better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u114	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. We will support your motion, Mrs Peña, urging the Government to present a comprehensive short-, medium- and long-term strategy on the digitisation of the economy, its opportunities, its risks and how to tackle them. It is paradoxical and worrying to ask a Government to present a comprehensive strategy on the digital economy in the twenty-first century, as we believe it is a little late for the subjects of the Kingdom of Spain. The motion is important and necessary, so we appreciate your presentation, as it puts in parliamentary debate the digitization of the economy as an opportunity, but also as a risk for the type of labour relations that can be established in the future. The motion puts the emphasis on whether or not we must adapt to the digital revolution, right, we agree, because all studies say that 90% of the jobs that exist in 2025 will need to be equipped with digital skills. I am not going to expand on educational measures as they are well listed in your motion: to avoid the digital divide between individuals, to ensure digital literacy, etc. If I am going to extend in the most urgent, because of the reality that also hides the digitized economy, in points 2 and 3 of its motion, which refer to the digital economy and the labor relations that are producing. Bearing in mind that corporate social responsibility is, in my opinion, a fable, while the thirst for benefits is a reality, while we know that capital has used existing labour legislation, regulated by the Socialist Party and the People's Party to increase the level of labour exploitation, we are very much in agreement with paragraph 2 of its motion, in which it urges the Government to repeal labour reforms in plural - I say labour reforms in plural because when it has defended the motion it has said only labour reform; therefore, I repeat, in plural - which have allowed and facilitated job insecurity. Repealing labour reforms - some parties do not understand why they should be repealed; they are the usual anti-unions - means returning and strengthening collective bargaining, as you yourselves recognize in paragraph 3 of your motion; and an act followed, not before, an ad hoc bill for the new digital economies, without which it will be impossible to fight against the new forms of exploitation that are already presented today. Without going into the detail and the debate forced because this is not the time, and without being ludists about whether the new digitalized economy is going to destroy more employment than it builds - debate that we have to have - I will set an example, the instant messaging app WhatsApp, which has a billion users, gives employment no more than thirty-two computers and, instead, was bought by Facebook for 16 billion dollars in 2014. Nor is it less to analyse the trend towards monopolies in this type of economy. Google, Facebook, Amazon, Airbnb, Uber, Twitter, Booking, Tripadvisor, are examples of companies that imposed or are imposing their technology on the whole world after eliminating competition. The other companies eventually disappear sooner or later and, instead, the winning companies use their growing monopolies to raise prices without making proportional profits to their employees. What is no longer the slightest doubt is that with the advent of digital technology there has been a radical change in the forms of organisation and management of companies. Portable computers replace fixed computers; workers can be connected to their businesses 24 hours a day, 7 days a week; receiving emails from their manager or colleagues in the middle of the night or during the weekend is already common currency. A whole new way of working and a new way of living very welcome by neoliberals, who know a lot about concepts such as autonomy, independence, freedom, flexibility... Very nice words that with a great display of media discourses seek only to increase the deregulation of work. The same motion goes around when it calls for a right of disconnection in order to ensure respect for rest and vacation times, as well as personal and family life. By the way, what society are we building so that a right to disconnect has to be legislated? What is essential, because we already suffer it, is to regulate the outsourcing in chain and the change of employees to self-employed, as they are workers who leave the economy cheaper and enter and exit the economy without more logic than that of the market. It is much more profitable for a boss to replace an employee, which involves a whole set of obligations linked to the existence of a contract, than empowering the self-employed: no paid permits, social protection, respect for the existing legality, etc. As a recent report indicates, almost half of Ryanair's pilots working exclusively for the company have been forced to set up their own registered service provider in Ireland. They're not wage earners anymore. Another issue to be regulated is the effects of digital platforms, a poorly-called collaborative economy when it is a machine to create self-employed fakes and a paradise for social security fraud; the effective regularization of telework; the regulatory clarification of methods of control and information to workers in the case of monitoring or monitoring their communications; and the hyperconnectivity of workers who must be permanently engaged in their work. In short, we will support this motion, we will follow with interest what the Government is doing with it and we thank Mrs Peña for introducing it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Candon Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has tabled a motion on decent working conditions and quality in the digital economy. Well, we have started 2018 with data that confirm the intense job creation in our country. Look where you look, no matter how many people want and strive to dye reality in another color or bother to hear it, the job has come to stay. It seems that some people no longer remember that we had an unemployment rate of almost 30% and that now, thanks to the effort made by all the Spaniards, it is 16.55 %. The latest data on registered unemployment and social security membership for January 2018 indicate that 607,856 new jobs have been created in the last 12 months. During 2017, 1,700 jobs were created daily, compared to 1,500 that were destroyed daily in 2011. Today we can say that Spain leads the creation of jobs in the euro area, the creation of young jobs, women's employment, self-employment and full-time employment. Who would have said it in 2011! In addition, the job that you so much demand is being created, quality job; today 3 out of 4 people have an indefinite contract. What's the difference with you, Socialist Party gentlemen? I'll tell you. With you were 6 out of 10 unemployed in Europe; with our employment reform Spain is responsible for one out of 4 jobs created in Europe in 2017. Its policies generate precarious and unfair employment and our policies create quality employment. That's the difference with you, ladies and gentlemen. To repeal, as you say, labour reform is to repeal job creation, it is to annul and suppress the framework of labour relations that has allowed Spain to move from generating half the unemployment in Europe to leading job creation in the euro area. We also need to highlight other measures carried out by different ministries, such as Economy, Industry and Competitiveness or Education, on the subject of quality in the digital economy; also from the Secretariat of State for Trade, with measures to promote the change of productive model and the organisation and operation of enterprises, with incentives for the modernisation of traditional sectors and the development of emerging sectors based on innovation and productive investment, the added value of products and quality in employment, as well as the continuous training of people working in digital skills, aid to SMEs and self-employed in their digitisation process for their implementation, technological renewal or incentives to encourage projects based on new technologies and the internationalization of enterprises; also from the General Secretariat for Industry and SMEs, with the Connected Industry 4.0 strategy or the Active Industry 4.0 programme, among others. The digital economy is a challenge that we must face among all of us. We must not lose any opportunity for entrepreneurship or let workers' rights be undermined by this new reality. We must continue to take steps to keep our economy growing and creating jobs. We must continue to add in order to continue to improve our labour market, enhancing, as we have done, training, especially digital training, so that no one will be left behind. And we continue to push for more action by the People's Party government. We want to ensure that the Internet reaches the entire national territory; we have approved two national plans, each with 60 million euros for 2018 for training workers in digital skills; a programme for SMEs, with 10 million euros, has been approved to support digital transformation, and thinking about youth employment will be invested 20 million euros in a programme to promote training projects in the field of ICTs with commitment to recruitment. If that's doing nothing, if that's not serious commitment, if that's not working to improve and if that's being a lazy government, let God come down and see him because we don't know what we're doing here. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Mr. President. The Ministry of Employment is working intensively within the framework of social dialogue, as well as with the autonomous communities, to respond to the rest of the change that involves globalization and digitization, which not only affects our country. We must continue to work, that is obvious, but, ladies and gentlemen, today the future is written with three e, entrepreneurs, employment and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u117	Thank you, Mr. Candon. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I ask Mrs Peña Camarero whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u118	Yes, we have prepared a transaction that we will proceed to sign.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u119	All right. We shall take this into account for the vote. Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the liquidation and termination of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and of the Quality of Services and the Failure of the Evaluation of Public Policies. [[EVAL]] [[File number 173/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u120	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the liquidation and termination of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and the Quality of Services and the lack of evaluation of public policies. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I'd beg your silence and attention.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. There is a word that is used or used a lot in the south, which is the word ugliness, ugliness. It was said that a person had a gloom because he was left alone in the face of a possible solution to a problem or an event. I come up here a little brazenly because I believe that in this debate real problems are being played out for our country and I have the impression, brazenly, that they are not going to have a good way out. There are three things that are intimately connected: public policies, the State Administration and its reform and evaluation of public policies. The three are one thing, because there is a growing demand for quality public services, for more heterogeneous services; there is a growing demand for a reform of the Administration capable of managing in new old ways and new problems, and then there is the need to assess the quality of the services provided, their efficiency and, above all, their ability to meet the basic needs of people. I think it is very important to start with the issue of public services and public services, because there is growing demand. And why is there a growing demand for public services? Because the relationship between the social question, the democratic question and the social state has been broken. This relationship has been broken, fragmented, people live it as a permanent insecurity and there is a growing demand throughout European society, in all European countries, for protection, security, order and the future. The future has become a political problem for the majority, it has become a political problem for young people. The lack of a future, the blockade of the future, has become a fundamental political element. Behind that, what's up? It's what's called Rodrick's trilemma. Rodrick's trilemma is working with all its strength today in Europe. You know him well, these are three problems, of which globalization only allows two to be solved, not the three at the same time. What does Rodrick's trilemma tell us? That hyperglobalization, nation state and democracy cannot be achieved at the same time. And what is it that you're getting? Eradicate democracy. And what's he getting? Eliminate social rights. And what's he getting? Break the link between social justice, democracy and, in this case, the European Union. In that we are, those are the problems: where we are, where we focus, and from there comes a huge demand for security in people. The extreme right grows and is strengthened precisely because of this, because no security or future is given to the social majorities, because in this economic war there are winners and losers and the losers have no one to protect them from the growing disorder of a world governed by funded capitalism. That's where we're at. The other very important thing, which is not small, is not only the need for public benefits, but the reform of the State, the management of the State. I note that the debate on State management and its reform is disappearing from us, and it is essential today, precisely today, in a country project, to go into depth in what kind of administration, what modernization of the administration and what management capacity this administration has. And when I say that and I point it out with the Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies it is as follows, because in evaluating public policies there is an opportunity to modernise the public administration itself, to make it more democratic, more egalitarian, more capable of solving people's problems, and in turn to make the State administration capable of doing so in an efficient way, which is also the best mechanism to end corruption. That is why and from that perspective we are defending this motion, which is nothing but the defence of the public, the new forms of management of the Administration and the need to give citizens constitutionalized and constitutionalized rights, a new constitutional life. I'm done. Two amendments have been tabled. The first, of the Socialist Party, we accept it without any difficulty; we will not accept, however, that of Citizens. It costs me a lot of work to say this, it costs me a lot of work, you can't imagine, but if you're a reformist you'll have to be a real reformer. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: There you have given him]] In other words, in a political agreement between the People's Party and Citizens, a state agency cannot be wound up and say that we do, but in the future there will be a better state agency. Perhaps I would have some justification for that; I am for something more than a soft reformism, but I think it is important to take note of this. If there is an agency that works and works, let's be able to discuss how it works, improve and develop it. But what remains of the State Agency for Public Policy Evaluation? A general sub-director in an ark of the Ministry of Finance. Do you believe that in this matter the People's Party will come to an agreement with you to create an independent body to assess public policies led by this Parliament? I believe that in this way, I sincerely say, it is easier for you to rule with us. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u122	Thank you, Mr. Monereo. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Ramírez Freire is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, any action, plan, programme, measure, in short, any action in the implementation of a public policy involves the use of limited resources, therefore, obtained under a tax system of the whole citizenry, which obliges us to be scrupulous in the use of them. All modern societies - and of course our most advanced European neighbours - understand the need to assess public policies from the point of view of effectiveness, efficiency and necessity, within the excellence of public governance. Aeval was originally born for this purpose in 2007, under the presidency of Rodríguez Zapatero and under the auspices of Minister Jordi Sevilla. What happens is that, like many of the proposals of that time, although it may seem to us very good at first, when it comes to materializing it was born lacking the resources necessary to be able to carry out its very important functions on the other hand. From Citizens we will continue to insist that the optimal design of public policies goes through a rigorous evaluation of previous measures. Such an assessment should be assessed in an essential way and that it demonstrates from a database rather than from intuitions or from Marian illuminations that a program or measure is working. As an example we could talk about the famous baby check - we are all clear that there is a birth problem in this country but the baby check did not solve it - or our active employment policies that throughout history have not improved the structural unemployment rate. The shortcomings in assessing the impact of our country are particularly serious. You know, that model based on experimental or quasi-experimental methods, which establishes a clear and direct cause-effect relationship between policy and problem, for example, CTRs. Of course, all this can only be addressed by an independent agency, which is why in the agreement with the PSOE we introduced strengthening the Aeval with greater human, material means and, of course, broadening its areas of competence. In short, strengthen the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policy and Quality of Services. In our agreement with the People's Party, in paragraph 17, we proposed the creation of an independent, professional and effective institute with competence to assess the effectiveness and cost of social policies and programmes, including education and health. All I have to do is ask the proposing group to accept our amendment. Mr. Monereo, we can share the diagnosis, it usually happens to us many times. You say that we cannot trust the People's Party and I will make it clear to you that our point 17 did not speak of suppressing the state agency; moreover, if it has been proved something is that the Aeval was already born addicted and without resources and could not achieve the objective that we were seeking both groups, which was to assess in depth and rigorously the impact of the needs of public policies. I can fully share with you the need for such public policies and their evaluation, but what is clear is that Aeval has not succeeded. It was an agency that was born without those resources. Let me ask the People's Party whether they will once and for all comply with what has been signed in paragraph 17, and I reiterate that they have some kind of problem to remember: To abolish the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and the Quality of Services, whose functions and budget will be assumed by a new independent institute for the analysis and evaluation of social policies, to assess the effectiveness and cost of public spending policies and programmes, including educational, health and social policies, at the national level, and independently, professionally and effectively. All that remains for me to say is that if the element they have used as a substitute for the Aeval is the Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies - which prays on its website that it is an element with a rank of undersecretary of State, dependent on the Secretary of State for Public Service and, therefore, on the Ministry of Finance and Public Service -, if this is its way of understanding independence, then we will better understand its way of proceeding and its little interest in not instrumentalizing each and every power of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. After last week's debate on the evaluation of public policies and the instrument for carrying out such an evaluation, the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes it is necessary to clarify the terms and not to fall into the confusion sought by the Government. Mr Montoro is not here, but I will still tell him that yes, it is true, they passed a law on transparency but last week and today we have been talking about the evaluation of public policies and the liquidation of the agency that was approved by a socialist government to carry out that evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, neither transparency is an evaluation nor an analysis of the regulatory impact is an evaluation. This is part of a term that is very alien to its policies, accountability. Publishing data on budget implementation is not an evaluation, asking for an analysis of the regulatory impact of a proposal is not enough. The Socialist Group is saying this because it was the Socialist Government that adopted the legislation by establishing this analysis. We need to be transparent in order to be evaluated, we need to set targets in order to be evaluated, and we need to give this competence to an autonomous body in order to be credible. Ladies and gentlemen, none of this complies with the People's Party Government, has the financial rescue been evaluated, has the rescue of toll freeways been evaluated, have the cuts of public administrations been assessed, has the supposed savings been assessed by the reduction of the rights of public employees? Mr Montoro's agenda is not asking these questions or giving this information or having an agency to carry out that assessment. The Government of the People's Party has liquidated the only agency that had competence to do so. It is a joke to say that Airef performs these functions, nor are they among its competences. I invite you to read the standard of creation, please. For the evaluation of public policies there was an agency created by law, today this function is undervalued and handed over to a branch general and called pompously institute. [[Applauds]] And note the importance that the Government attaches to this assessment that a person has not even been appointed to this position. Mr. Citizen's Spokesman, Zapatero would not provide you with resources, but the People's Party government has not even put a person responsible for the institute. [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have to go back to what is really important: let us flee from the deliberate and habitual confusion of the Government which is closest to transparency and evaluation in the repeated judicial proceedings related to its endemic corruption. Both in the public and in the private sectors, the need has arisen to transparent actions and decisions, to report to society on administrative, government and functions policies, to inform and to be transparent. Accountability is therefore urgently needed as a tool to achieve such ends. Accountability encompasses three different ways to prevent and correct abuses of power. It obliges the power to open up to public inspection, forces it to explain and justify its actions and makes it subject to the threat of sanctions. The benefits of incorporating the culture of accountability into the public administration are evident: increasing legitimacy, credibility and trust, as well as continuous learning of public organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, accountability means an increase in technical and organisational capacities leading to efficiency in the use of available resources, a genuine commitment to the evaluation of public policies and the quality of services, and also contributes to the principles that modern societies must uphold, such as citizenship, democracy and development. Accountability should no longer be a necessary exercise in administration to form the backbone of a new model of public service delivery based on transparency and effectiveness. 92% of Spaniards believe that public administrations should evaluate their actions. We need to strengthen the evaluation of results and the impact of public policies as a guarantee of effectiveness and quality and as a mechanism to ensure that public resources are always well used to serve the well-being of citizens. The proposal made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the motion submitted by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is the creation of an independent body of government that evaluates public policies. Full autonomy and competence are essential to enable it to have access to all the information necessary to carry out such an assessment. The current legislation, adopted by the People's Party Government, has laundered this possibility. Let us stand by and equip ourselves with that standard and find that body where it has the greatest independence and competence to carry out the evaluation of public policies. We urge the Government to provide this House with information on the evaluation reports made since the abolition of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and the Quality of Services. But let us work towards a standard that allows us to have an agency that truly conducts a public policy assessment to ensure that the services provided are efficient, effective and quality for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. With this motion the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea aims to restore the Aeval, a state agency that had a very important function until it was dissolved seven months ago. Its statute attributed it to the promotion and implementation of evaluations of public policies and programmes managed by the General Administration of the State. Here, this afternoon, as during last week's inquiry, a very bleak picture has been described resulting from the elimination of this agency which was born from the hand of Mr Zapatero's government. I have reviewed several of the general activity reports that Aeval normally presented and it is perceived that its operation was very conditioned and very burdened by the economic crisis because it was created in 2007 and is known what happened immediately afterwards. This limited the very specialized analytical work of an agency such as this, which could not be provided with sufficient human and economic resources, which has not prevented them from making relevant contributions also at parliamentary level, as stated in the Journal of Sessions, with regard, for example, to a law for the maintenance of employment, the protection of the unemployed and the system of bonuses. I do not, however, agree, Mr Monereo, with the perception that there are no bodies or control mechanisms that promote compliance with the governance of our administrations. In fact, the legislation has been gradually incorporating self-requirements for quality assessment, and that is already a legislative framework that has no setback, as is inter-administrative cooperation in these matters. By the way, the Autonomous Community of Asturias was the last to sign an agreement with Aeval on the implementation of the Charter of Commitments with the quality of Spanish public administrations. It did so late, at the end of 2016, seven years after the letter was promoted. I can share, however, that the more resources and agencies that are independent and well-endowed, the better for greater quality and effectiveness in the development of public policies, but the State currently has sufficient protective mechanisms, starting with the legislative ones, to combat opacity, promote transparency and assume the irrevocable decalogue to implement quality commitments at all administrative levels, bearing in mind, yes, that there are increasing demands from the citizens of the twenty-first century and that there is also a growing demand for services and information. Even so, it would be no more for the Government to provide incentives for officials to design, participate and actively intervene in policies to achieve the highest levels of quality in public services. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u128	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u129	Thank you very much, President. We have told you that we are going to vote in favour of the motion for an inquiry. It is a proposal that we share, as long as it has to be an independent body. The model of state agency is not exactly ours; we further share the model of Catalonia of an Institut Català d'Avaluació de Polítiques Públiques, where the Generalitat participates, participates the municipal world, such as the Diputación de Barcelona, the Pompeu Fabra University, the Consorci Interuniversitari and the Consell del Treball, Economique i Social de Catalunya. This is more transversal. We believe that the functions must go beyond, not only the evaluation, which is basic, but also the training, the evaluation of the evaluation itself, worth redundancy. In any case, we find much better the proposal that we have today on the table than the one that has existed since mid-2017. Before I finish, I would like to make a cordial reflection - and I am not angry - on the Members of the People's Party. This looks like the Peniminella duet. [[Laughter and applause]] Remember the song Forget me and hit the turn? That's what it looks like they're constantly telling PP. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u130	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u131	If one only sees and hears the interventions, he may think it is true, but, of course, when one reviews the votes not of the motions but of the real decrees and the laws, he sees that yes, it is a fiction, like the Doo Pimpinela. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Sweep on, good afternoon. We agree with the motion's approach that public policies need to be assessed, but we do not find it essential to have a state agency to evaluate public policies. The purpose of the evaluation of public policies is not only to determine the importance of meeting a number of objectives, but also the effectiveness and efficiency of a programme and also to measure the impact achieved on social progress and the well-being of citizens. The evaluation of public policies contributes to building trust, transparency and social participation, and must therefore also be part of democratic development. That being said, the inquiry criticized, on the one hand, the elimination of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and told us that it had to be restored, when, on the other hand, it told us that it was unknown whether it was well designed, whether it was more or less rational, whether it lacked things or something to be added to it. The truth is that this is somewhat contradictory... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u134	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u135	It is contradictory because something is to be restored when aspects relevant to its proper functioning are unknown. It would be more logical for us to discuss whether or not this body should exist as such, what the objectives are, what policies it should evaluate and what administrations. In addition, I remind you - as you said in the interpellation - that there are already autonomous communities, such as that of Euskadi, that measure the effectiveness and efficiency of their public policies and do so differently: government, parliaments and municipalities. For example, Vizcaya has signed an agreement with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to assess these public policies. What I mean by this is that this evaluation should go into the DNA of each Administration, not as much as a means of control but as an innovative means or mechanism of evaluation, which allows us to know whether the actions are efficient, the ones that work, so that the public budget can be drawn up and allocated according to the results obtained. That is why we do not share the criticism that the evaluation is being carried out by the Secretariat of State for Public Service, because we do not know whether they are suggesting that it is not independent, that they are not being evaluated or that the technical persons entrusted with this function do not do so properly. Of course, you have not given us any data to corroborate these assumptions. In addition, in the interpellation they referred to the good practices carried out in this regard by Euskadi, the Directorate of Coordination, together with the Directorate of Economy of the Basque Government, which are those working in the evaluation of public policies. Therefore, internal bodies that implement this mechanism rigorously, independently and professionally, because this depends on improving the effectiveness and efficiency of a Government's actions. For these reasons, we do not believe it is essential to set up such an agency. I also have to say that, although this agency has disappeared, this does not mean that no evaluation will be carried out at best, because Airef, which has demonstrated its independence on numerous occasions, will carry out an audit based on the principles of the spending review in terms of strategies, procedures, effectiveness and efficiency in seven areas of action. Something seems to be moving in this direction, you'll have to see it. The approach of this motion, in our view, seeks control or supervision that we do not share because it seems that it pursues an evaluation of those public policies of all administrations, autonomous and local, including. We differ here because they have the capacity to manage themselves and to decide for themselves, which also includes this assessment without any need for protection by other bodies. That is why we, in principle, are going to vote against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u136	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u137	Members, Members, President, when you take stock of this afternoon's sitting you think what positive or negative elements you may have. I can at least take a positive one and I have listened to Manuel Monereo and, therefore, I take a bag that will serve me for other parliamentary cuetas. They say the best way to destroy a good idea is to misapply it. Without a doubt, evaluation, having an agency, that public policies are evaluated is an excellent idea and we have not invented it in this Congress; it exists in many European countries, each in its own way. And it's true that, if you talk about singers, here too it's done in your own way, in my own way. And in my own way, in his own way, it is - as I would say - to do the opposite of what they intended. It is true that the first Zapatero government proposed the creation of the agency but without excessive enthusiasm; and they have changed their minds because at the time it joined the Ministry of Public Administrations, that is, judge and party, we evaluate ourselves from the administration itself, and it has been the chronicle of an announced death that has ended who least believed in the evaluation, which is the People's Party. He has finished it, but I would say that the sick person has good health; that is, there are chances of making an agency, there are chances of making an independent agency, but attention, gentlemen of the PSOE, with another government. This motion to no one escapes that if it is to be applied by the People's Party it will be put in the drawer of memories, which was also a song. We are at a time when I would say balance sheet and perspectives. We've been in two legislatures for two years. Gentlemen of the PSOE, dare. Why not? Dare and propose a project where alternatives like today's would be feasible. Of course everything has cost, it can even be a high cost, but there is no worse cost than continuing in this long legislative and governmental agony. You'll decide. This morning I was talking to Congressman Díaz Trillo and quoting Celaya. I wanted to finish my speech with Celaya but I've changed my mind, and I'll do something by paraphrasing another author at a difficult time; I'm sure my friend Monereo will like it. First they went to look for the Catalan Independenceists and I didn't do anything, then I got the tweeters and I didn't do anything, then I got the rappers and I didn't do anything, when they came for me there was nobody left. Free Valtonyc, your freedom is ours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u138	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u139	Thank you, Madam President. We in the People's Parliamentary Group firmly believe in transparency, accountability and citizen participation in public policies. We believe that we have an obligation to work to build more open governments and to enhance the mechanisms of scrutiny and evaluation, because without that scrutiny and evaluation we will not be able to measure the degree to which public policy objectives are met, but above all because it would not be possible for citizens to demand improvement in the quality of public services. Ladies and gentlemen, I have thus started my intervention because the evaluation of public policies is not an end in itself, but must accompany the whole process that goes from the design of a public policy that citizens demand from us to the subsequent accountability of the extent to which the complainants have been answered. However, today in this motion you do not go great, you do not go to what is important, which is this whole process, but you remain in the small, you remain only in the replacement of the State Evaluation Agency by the Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies, a new organizational structure that has the necessary resources and that guarantees the independence and quality of the evaluation of public policies at its different stages. Well, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry that I'm going to explain to you why this change is happening. This change has been made, first of all, because it is one of the commitments we have made in the Citizens' Investment Agreement and the People's Party is fulfilling its commitments, creating an independent evaluation institute by abolishing the Aeval; independent. Mr. Citizen Spokesman, were you not informed and asked for an opinion on this institute? Ask, Mr. Spokesman, your classmates, more than one classmate. [[Applauds]] Secondly - this is really important - because it fits within the strategy advocated by the People's Parliamentary Group and by the Government of Mariano Rajoy for improving the quality of public services within the framework of the Alliance for Open Government, a partnership of seventy-five countries that aims to make governments more transparent, accountable and improve their capacity to respond to their citizens with the aim of improving the quality of services. Since its incorporation, Spain has submitted three open-ended government action plans, which are voluntarily submitted to the evaluation of the partnership together with the scrutiny carried out by multiple public, private and civil society actors. As a result of the first plan, the Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance was adopted, which has been recognized as one of the fundamental measures to restore confidence in institutions and improve the quality of our democracy. Among the commitments of the second plan, he highlighted the development of the transparency portal, the purpose of which is to make public information of an institutional nature, of legal relevance and of an economic, budgetary and statistical nature, a portal with the recognition of different institutions, including the OECD. The Third Open Government Plan, presented last June, has five main axes: collaboration, participation, transparency, accountability and training - today we have talked about training - and pursues three major objectives. First, to strengthen mechanisms for participation and dialogue with civil society, placing it at the centre of decision-making and strengthening direct evaluation by citizens. The second objective is to ensure cooperation between the three levels of the Administration, by encouraging the Sectoral Open Government Commission. And the third objective is to lay the foundations of open government by continuing with the development of the Transparency Act and incorporating - we have spoken here today and it is already incorporated - the training of public employees, the awareness of civil society and education in open government in the school itself. In short, it is about strengthening the tools and knowledge that guarantee public administrations and a civil society prepared to move forward and that the ongoing and legitimate assessment of the performance of public authorities is in all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we in the People's Party are talking about something else. We are talking about a whole in which the evaluation of public action takes place at all stages. In the face of those who work to improve this, there are those who focus only on one administrative evaluation body. You gentlemen of Podemos, Mr Monereo, must explain whether there is any hidden reason. Is it possible that the fact that Mr Errejon's father holds a post of free designation or, rather, that he holds a post of free designation in that agency is the reason why the only thing that concerns them and the public policies is that the Evaluation Agency has been replaced by an independent evaluation institute? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u140	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Monereo Pérez whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u141	We accept that of the Socialist Party, but not that of Citizens because we have not been convinced.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-20-CD180220.u142	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and forty minutes of the night.
