ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u1	The meeting was resumed. I would remind you that, as agreed by the speakers, the vote on the matters discussed today will take place at the meeting on Thursday. We continue with the appearance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. The following requests for appearance are discussed together: Appearance of the President of the Government to the plenary of the House, requested by the mixed parliamentary groups and by Esquerra Republicana, to inform of the Government's initiatives to channel those political solutions that allow a democratic solution to the demands of Catalan society; urgent appearance of the President of the Government to the plenary of the House, requested by Ms Montserrat Montserrat and 100 other Members, to explain the guidelines that the Government has imposed on the State Advocate for the preparation of the indictment in the criminal procedure that follows against the alleged perpetrators of the crime of rebellion, sedition and embezzlement by the events of 1-O in Catalonia; urgent appearance of the President of the Government to the plenary of the House, requested by Ms Montserrat Montserrat and 103 other Members, to explain the agreements reached between the European Union and the United Kingdom at the recent extraordinary European Council of the Brexit of 25 November 2018, and attendance at the proper request of the President of the Government to the plenary session of the European Council for the 15th anniversary of December will be held in plenary session of the plenary session of the 25th December 2018. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to express not only on behalf of the Government of Spain, but also, on behalf of all its members, my conviction of solidarity and support for the French people, the victims and the families of the victims for what happened yesterday in the French city of Strasbourg. So a very strong hug to the French people on behalf of all Spanish society. [[Applauds]] I compare with you at your own request and at the request of various parliamentary groups to inform - I will try to summarise it in two axes - on the Council of Article 50, the so-called Article of the United Kingdom of the European Union, Brexit, and on the political situation in Catalonia; on matters in which, in my opinion, there is a link of union in what is the response and the requirement to strengthen our common project, to strengthen our European project, which is called into question by the departure from the United Kingdom, and to strengthen once again the European project and the Spanish project challenged by Catalan independence. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalan independence undermines the European project by challenging the collective project of Spain. The strength of the Union is based on its integration, never on its segregation, on the desire to share sovereignty in a globalised world in order to regain decision-making power for the benefit of the social majority, especially those who need politics in order to transform their lives. In recent days we have heard from some leaders of independence an unacceptable inflammatory rhetoric, thick messages combined with a demise of functions by the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which are not acceptable to the Government of Spain. And on these issues I would like to make the following three statements. The first, in relation to the Mossos d'Esquadra, is that the Government will not accept any termination of office by the person entrusted with public safety in Catalonia. In the face of recent episodes, last weekend, on some Catalan highways and the unjustifiable inaction of political positions to give orders of action to the Autonomous Police, we have addressed from the Government of Spain to the Government of Catalonia, and above all to those advisers who have competences related to public security, with a clear message and is that they comply with their obligations, and warning that, if they persist in their attitude, a sufficient number of troops from the State Security Forces and Bodies will travel to Catalonia to ensure the security and exercise of the fundamental rights of all Catalans and Catalans. [[Applauds]] Secondly, despite the threats of some radical elements of independence, the Spanish Government will hold the Council of Ministers in Barcelona on 21 December. That's how I committed myself to the President of the Generalitat, that's how I committed myself to the Catalan people, and that's how I'm going to enforce the government's word. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first Council of Ministers that we are doing outside Madrid and I am already telling you that it is not going to be the last. My will is to bring the Government closer to each and every one of the territories of Spain, recognizing with your presence our esteem for the territorial diversity of the country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u3	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u4	The Government, ladies and gentlemen, has a project of progress and shared prosperity for Spain, for each and every one of its peoples, for each and every one of its citizens, live where they live. That is why I want to make the following announcement to you. The Council of Ministers to be held next 21 December in Barcelona will approve the increase of the minimum wage to 900 euros per month starting in 2019. [[Applauds]] It is an increase of 22%, the largest since 1977, and the explanation is clear: a rich country cannot have poor workers. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, in 1999 I had the honour of working for the United Nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina when I was twenty-eight years old. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Rumors]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u6	I witnessed the consequences of the civil war in the former Yugoslavia, how the Kosovar refugees fled from the ethnic cleansing perpetrated by dictator Milosevic, as before the Bosnians suffered the same hardships for the hatred of Karadzic and Mladic. I don't need to be told, I don't touch ears, ladies, I saw it and I lived it. I remember with pride the work of the Spanish NGOs, among which there were many Catalan NGOs, I lived with pride how the solidarity of the Spanish people arrived, how Spain received and welcomed many refugees from the civil war in the former Yugoslavia, how the Spanish population turned to support the Bosnian population, with the commitment of Spanish cooperation and hundreds of municipalities, such as the City of Barcelona, ruled by a socialist, by Pasqual Maragall, who precisely rebuilt the library of Sarajevo, and I worked with elbows with them and with the Spanish Army, to which for their dedication and in remembrance of the soldiers who died there dedicated the Plaza de España in the city of Mostar, a square whose walls were crippled by the bullets of nationalist hatred. [[applause]] Years later, ladies and gentlemen, I have returned to Bosnia on more than one occasion and unfortunately, coexistence continues to be an outstanding subject; on the contrary, ethnic segregation is breathed in many of its corners. Moreover, if you have the opportunity to speak with the Bosnians, Croats or Serbs - who also suffered the inclimences and consequences of the civil war - they remember with gratitude the solidarity of Spain, so you don't need to tell me; I saw it and lived it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the claim of Catalan independence to the Kosovar or Slovene path denotes a lack of knowledge of history, unacceptable manipulation and despair of those who no longer have any argument but lies to support their political positions. [[Applauds]] As President of the Government I will say that all these statements have one answer: the way to solve our problems is the constitutional way, the way of the Spanish Constitution, the way of dialogue within the legality that we have given ourselves. Everything that is outside the Constitution and outside the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia will have the answer - and I will say it in a very calm and paused way, so that I can understand it clearly - firm but serene, proportional and forceful of the social and democratic rule of law. [[Applauds]] There's no need to say more. You don't have to gesticulate or speak louder to make me understand. My commitment and my determination are reflected in the Journal of Sessions. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for my position is based on the same conviction, and I defend plural Spain, a Spain proud of its territorial diversity. I defend the Spanish Constitution and also its title VIII. I believe in the self-government of our autonomy, defending its improvement and reinforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, centralism is a historical error typical of the right which today, as yesterday, by opportunism again fall into the same. But that is not the history of the Spanish left or the history of Spanish liberalism. Autonomous Spain has brought democracy and progress to territories condemned for centuries to ostracism. Therefore, this government will not take a step back from the re-centralizing impulses of the Spanish right, nor will we accept - and I want this to be clear - a new violation of our constitutional and statutory order. Ladies and gentlemen, self-government is coexistence and this is what we must preserve all those responsible for politics. I have said this once, twice, three times and I will not tire of repeating it: the problem in Catalonia is not independence, the problem in Catalonia is coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first appearance before you in this House as President of the Government, I defined my Government as a feminist, progressive, ecological and, above all, Europeanist government. And I did so because I am aware that it is in the European arena and in the international defence of a multilateral order that is being called into question where Spain plays its present and its future to a large extent. The interdependence of our societies obliges us to do so. It is a vision opposed to that of those who defend projects of segregation and isolation; projects not only contrary to the logic of the times, but also to common sense. Both the Brexit and the Catalan independence movement walk in parallel and with similar rhetoric. In both cases there is a report of ailments invented and magnified by manipulation. In both cases it is intended to force the population to make binary decisions: it is obliged to choose between being European or British, between being Spanish or being Catalan, when we have lived with those identities and many others over decades. In both cases, a third party is always blamed, as long as one's own responsibilities in the cuts in education and health that erode social cohesion and trust in the institutions are removed. In both cases, the discordant is demonized and the population is forced into military action in the face of conflict. In both cases, a dream is built that, in colliding with reality, generates a huge flow of frustration that no one wants to manage - today the British Prime Minister is going to make a motion of censure from six to eight in the British Parliament - and those who do so or flee ahead or flee their responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 November the European Council endorsed - as is technically said in the diplomatic jargon - the withdrawal agreement and approved the political declaration establishing the framework for future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. It was the culmination of almost a year and a half of very complex negotiations stemming from the decision of the United Kingdom in June 2016 to opt out of the European Union; a decision of a country that we respect - of course - but which must make us reflect on the irresponsibility of a ruler, of Prime Minister Cameron, who turned a party problem, of the Tory Party, into a European and global problem. A decision that must also make us reflect on the dangers faced by democracy itself when divisive and confrontational elements come into play with an end, which is the political and social fracture of the country, and always with the same pattern, the primacy of visceral emotions over reason. A scenario in which language and feelings are manipulated to create a narrative contrary to the logic of the times. We've seen it in Brexit and we're seeing it in Catalonia. I want you to bear that in mind, ladies and gentlemen, with Brexit we are facing a movement that is moving against history and also against reason. The reason, what does it dictate to us? It dictates that global challenges demand global responses, require a common project, more integration, more unity, always recognizing the identity diversity of each, but also more fraternity, understanding to unite rather than divide, not to see complexity and plurality as a problem but as a source of opportunities and wealth of societies. Today some want to reduce this enriching complexity to a simple choice between exclusionary choices, forcing the choice between evil and greater evil, narrowing the public space to a choice between alternatives defined by what they oppose and never by what is proposed. They take advantage of the open gaps in inequality and frustration of an economic crisis and the wrong response of neo-conservative policies, which socialized losses and privatized profits. Here too, there is a common pattern: the same ones who pulled the cuts and austerity with conservative policies accuse a third party as an excuse to encourage separation. Brechas, in short, ladies and gentlemen, to invent an ill-treatment, an ill-treatment magnified with a single purpose, which is to polarize, to confront parts of society. We have seen it with Brexit in the United Kingdom, ladies and gentlemen, but also here we have witnessed that debate, fuelled by a succession of fallacies, false illusions and dialectic traps at the service of the same objective: to deny space for moderation and for understanding and to sign the most radical options. The worse, the better, ladies and gentlemen, could be summed up. Brexit will in any case have very painful consequences, whatever its outcome for a country with which Spain maintains close ties. More than 300 Spanish companies operate in that country, 25% of the total number of tourists we receive in our country every year are British, in the United Kingdom they study our sons and daughters - many of them - and Spain is the country of residence of the largest British citizen community on the continent. Look, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago the Bank of England released a demolishing report on the consequences of the Brexit. It warns that the withdrawal of the European Union has already had consequences for the British economy, reducing productivity growth, depreciating the pound, increasing inflation and, consequently, lowering real wage growth for workers. This is the present, this is the now, the predictions of the future, from the multiple still open scenarios, are even more dramatic, more demolishing. Taking as a reference May 2016 - the time before the referendum - the forecasts fluctuate in a decline of the gross domestic product from 1,25 % to 8,25 %, depending on a scenario of close cooperation - i.e. with an orderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union - or with the application of the rules of the World Trade Organisation - and consequently without agreement and in a disorderly way -. The translation of these numbers - the Bank of England tells us - in terms of unemployment and inflation in fact imply talking about an even greater economic recession than the one suffered in 2008 in the case of a disorderly and unagreed exit. I believe that with these figures published by the Bank of England it becomes even clearer and more real those warnings that were also given to Catalan independenceists by public and private bodies alerting them to the economic consequences that the independence of Catalonia from Spain and the European Union could have: a fall in the gross domestic product in Catalonia from 3.52% to 17.6%, a destruction of jobs that could exceed the rate of unemployment in Catalonia to 34% and an impact on the inability to provide financial resources to public services and the bankruptcy of social security and thus of pensioners. Let's go back to the UK. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of these figures published by the Bank of England, what can be said to British companies when uncertainty prevents them from making growth plans? What do you say to workers who are going to suffer a real - uninvented, real - loss of their purchasing power by increasing prices and cost of living? What can be said to young people in a country who have grown up, ladies and gentlemen, without knowing what a border was when they now have to hear again about concepts such as customs and visas? But it doesn't matter, the UK is sick of the experts, it held the leader of the Brexit campaign, Michael Gove, as if figures and facts no longer matter, as if the repetition of a falsehood a million times were to turn it into a reality. We are talking about the impoverishment of millions and millions of people, a real impact on their real lives and not a mere statistic. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be remembered that Brexit is starting out on a grotesque campaign of unprecedented lies and misinformation. For example, you will remember lies, ladies and gentlemen, like the 350 million pounds a week that the United Kingdom was going to receive back to finance - they said - its public health system with the exit from the European Union. Today the British, two years later, know that the problem was not in Brussels, it was never in Brussels, but in the cuts imposed by the British Conservative governments for years. By the way, others also invented fiscal balances and aggravations to justify EUR 16 billion of imaginary expoliation. Lies also like those that illustrated the image - I don't know if they remember - of a Syrian refugee caravan in another country that wasn't the United Kingdom, a denigrating image used as a background of lies with the far rightist Nigel Farage in the foreground, where xenophobic messages were being launched. Lies like Turkey's alleged imminent entry into the European Union in order to mobilize Islamophobic sentiments. Lies, ladies and gentlemen, such as the supposed instant immediacy with which a trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union was to be signed, which reduced the sudden impact of automatic exit. Lies such as the idea that permanence in the single market was compatible with limiting the free movement of citizens or, as they said, with taking control of borders. Lies, in short, that we have seen reproduced almost in their literality here in Spain when we are talking about Catalonia. Independence has followed the same pattern of deception and exaltation of emotions as its British travel companions, and as a result has managed to crisscross and divide Catalan society as well as Spanish society. Lies such as the statement, for example, that the day after the suspension of the unilateral declaration of independence told us the independence leaders that initiatives of international mediation had been launched, do they remember? It was of no use that three days later the President of the European Commission made it clear that there was no possibility of talking about such a scenario. Lies like the one claimed that the path of independence - and I quote textually - would be undertaken to the law with seny - with common sense in Catalan. Difficult to square, ladies and gentlemen, that assertion with the flagrant bankruptcy of statutory legality in Catalonia in September 2017. From a false fiscal balance to a supposed ease with which they would enter Europe, through an allusion of business investment that would arrive, the discourse of the independence leaders has been to inflate the supposed advantages of that independence and to hide the suffering of Catalans; and if there were costs, they would pay others. And this is not a assumption, we have already seen how some have done so by circumventing their responsibilities, how it has happened, for example, also in the supporters of the Brexit, where one by one have resigned to avoid taking charge of managing the rupture and also the costs. Isaiah Berlin said that in politics there is nothing more perverse than supporting a few simple ideas with universal keys. [[Rumors]] That is the main lesson we can draw from Brexit, but also from each and every one of the processes that are built on lies to divide and to confront, with the complicity of unscrupulous means in spreading falsehoods, also, of course, in the Catalan independence process. Here and there we have witnessed the exaltation of a handful of topics covered with nostalgia by a past that can no longer return and always at the service of the rhetoric of us in front of them. Nothing better, by the way, than a referendum to achieve the goal of leaving society in two, a tool that some wanted to import by listening to, with cheating analogies, ignoring, for example, that the Scottish referendum, to which Catalan independence so much refers, is born from an international treaty more than three centuries ago between Scotland and the United Kingdom, or keeping alive the expectation of repetition, if the result is not satisfactory, as many times as it is necessary to repeat that referendum. It is happening in Scotland, where a second referendum is already being called for, it is also happening in the United Kingdom, where a second referendum is also being held in relation to those who lost that vote. And the consequences of that whole process are well known, we are seeing them now live and live: economic uncertainty and instability; frustration and social division; and, in the United Kingdom, an unprecedented constitutional crisis. Far from cohering the country, it has divided it for many years. The seams of the United Kingdom have jumped through Northern Ireland, where the Good Friday agreements are being jeopardized; through Scotland, without divining lasting solutions; and the division, in my opinion, greater and more serious, the division between generations, ladies and gentlemen, with hundreds of thousands of young people marching in favor of the remnant frustrated by seeing how the political irresponsibility of their rulers further increases the risks of an already uncertain future for those British young people. Ladies and gentlemen, the strength of a democracy is not born out of the position of absolute domination by a majority minority over the rest of the options. The strength of a democracy lives in the capacity to integrate solutions, to reach consensus, to explore the territory of the agreement, because in that territory, in the territory of the agreement, lies the will of the vast majority of the population to reconcile in coexistence, in the face of those who need confrontation, take advantage of it or deceive about the consequences of their political adventures. As you know, the British Parliament postponed yesterday the vote on the withdrawal agreement of the extraordinary Council on 25 November. It is a decision that will not change the Spanish position or the position of the European Union. That is what the European Commission itself, the European Council itself, made known yesterday, whose assessments, of course, are ours. This agreement was and remains the only one possible, and there is no other negotiation, there is no renegotiation. It is therefore for the United Kingdom to determine what decision it is going to take, even more so in the light of the decision of the European Court of Justice of 10 December last, which recognises the right of the United Kingdom to withdraw, to revoke the proceedings initiated with the activation of Article 50. Whatever the scenario we are facing, what I can assure you of is that the Spanish Government has taken the necessary measures to ensure that, if the withdrawal agreement is not adopted, the impact on Spain and its citizens is as little as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain some of the elements of this agreement, which I believe are important to all of you. This agreement ensures an orderly exit from the UK that minimizes the impact of Brexit on citizens and economic actors. It has achieved virtually all the objectives at the start of the negotiations. The first of these, and most important for the Spanish Government, is the safeguarding of the rights of Community citizens in the United Kingdom, where we have more than 300,000 citizens, and vice versa. This, as I said, has been one of the main priorities of the Spanish Government. In order to guarantee these rights, the agreement takes precedence over the domestic law of both parties and also has a direct effect, i.e. it will be directly applicable by the European courts and by the British courts. In short, and I believe this is the basic political message, because there are many families that have their children in the UK living or working, European citizens and British citizens will be protected by this agreement. The free movement of goods marketed after the end of the transitional period is also guaranteed in respect of markets and services. In judicial and police cooperation, the agreement provides for twelve legal instruments, such as the Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, the European Arrest and Delivery Order or the European Investigation Order, to continue to apply until the end of the transitional period. The United Kingdom will also continue to participate in existing joint research teams. Also, as you know, the agreement includes a transitional period until 31 December 2020, and this period will essentially allow the United Kingdom, but also the 27 Member States of the European Union, to adapt to the new reality, if it happens. During the same period the legislation and acquis communautaire will continue to apply to the United Kingdom although it is no longer part of the institutions. This is also an important issue of the agreement. The United Kingdom will also continue to meet its financial obligations as if it were a Member State. The manufacturing sector, the fishing sector, the exporters of fruit and vegetables, as well as the industrial sector of our country will also find in the withdrawal agreement an appropriate framework for continuing their export activity; it is also positive for our companies with greater investment activity, also for financial services, and of course for a vital sector for our economy as is the tourism sector. The United Kingdom will leave the internal market, but this agreement has the elements necessary for the intensity of our economic relationship to be maintained with rules of play, in my opinion, balanced and fair. In addition to the withdrawal agreement, the European Council on 25 November also approved the so-called political declaration, which sets out the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. This text clearly underlines the principles and red lines of the European Union, which are, firstly, respect for its autonomy to decide; secondly, the defence of integrity in our internal market; and thirdly, the defence of the four freedoms which define the European project: the movement of goods, services, capital, and above all, and above all, of people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the withdrawal agreement and we are not going to negotiate another, as I said before. What has not been done in this year and a half of very complex negotiations will not be achieved in three months. The annex to the withdrawal agreement, the political declaration, sets out as its objective the search for an intense, balanced relationship in rights and obligations for the future, and this relationship will also include an area of free trade and sectoral cooperation. I would like to dwell, because it has been the subject of debate, on the question of Gibraltar. The priority, as you know, of the Government of Spain in relation to Gibraltar has always been the same: to provide peace and security for the people of the Campo de Gibraltar. This is an absolute priority to meet the challenges faced by the people of a region that is severely affected by their economic situation. You know that the Government has adopted a special development plan for the Gibraltar Field, and our will is to reach agreement in all areas to enable the economic development of the area, in terms of employment and also in terms of welfare. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, does not affect the position that Spain has always maintained in relation to Gibraltar's sovereignty, but we cannot fall into the temptation to mortgage the present or project uncertainty on the daily lives of thousands of people living and working in the area. The claim of full sovereignty over Gibraltar is perfectly compatible with the search for agreements of all kinds, economic, social, financial, fiscal or military, within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance to prevent the suffering of the population from the consequences of a non-agreement. I would therefore like to convey, first of all, a message of confidence and certainty to the people of the area; they are the absolute priority of this Government. Our country has achieved by far the objectives that were proposed at the beginning of the negotiations. There it is collected in the British press, and this has also been recognised by European leaders. I will simply quote the words of the German Foreign Minister who said textually: 'The Gibraltar document is a legally binding document, so for the German Government this issue is settled. I do not know in the European Union - the German minister said - anyone who has another interpretation It is a binding agreement - the foreign minister continues - and everyone will respect it.' [[you see that you have not heard the opposition of this country]] Similarly, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, and yesterday the Director of the European Commission's Madrid office, and we hope that the opposition in this matter will recognise the correctness of the Spanish Government, even if for once. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have negotiated a bilateral protocol that will apply only until the end of this period, and from then on it will govern for Gibraltar what has been negotiated on the future relationship, and it, ladies and gentlemen, will depend on Spain's consent. Let it be clear: Article 184 does not include Gibraltar in the territorial sphere of the future relationship. Furthermore - and this is very important - we have obtained a political statement from the European Council and the exclusive Commission on the territorial scope of negotiations on the future relationship. Firstly, Spain's prior agreement is required for the negotiation of any European Union agreement that applies to Gibraltar. Secondly, Gibraltar is excluded from the general negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Agreements affecting Gibraltar - if any - will be the subject of separate agreements and will have to count - as has already been said - with the consent of Spain. Spain's negotiating position is therefore substantially strengthened with regard to past times. Finally, I would like to highlight a very relevant fact in my view, given the context and the current situation. In the event that the United Kingdom does not ratify the withdrawal agreement, the declaration of the European Council and also of the European Commission will remain in force, it will not lapse. Yes, the withdrawal agreement or the political declaration does, but not the agreement we have reached on Gibraltar and the support of the European Commission and the European Council. We have therefore defined the framework for the European Union's relations with Gibraltar for the coming decades, and be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that these relations pass through Spain. That is the reality, however much some want to feed with false news and exaggerations a debate that should be beyond party interests, as we did when we arrived at the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, last Monday we heard the British Parliament's decision to suspend the vote on the withdrawal agreement, and I would like to send a message of calm from this rostrum, as I did at the last appearance on the European Council. The Government has worked in all possible scenarios of Brexit regardless of the terms on which such an orderly or disorderly withdrawal takes place. We will continue to work closely with the European Commission - as we are doing -, with the European Council - as we are doing - and with the other Member States to protect our interests in the event of an unagreed exit. On the other hand, the Government has worked at the national level to identify the potential effects of an unagreed Brexit in all areas, in order to articulate contingency plans to safeguard our interests. Finally, I would like to reiterate the appeal I made to this House last October that companies operating in the United Kingdom should develop contingency and adaptation plans to reduce the impact of the UK's exit, whatever the scenario that finally takes place from 29 March next year. Ladies and gentlemen, I have detailed the essential content of an agreement that has been drawn up, as I have said before, over months of hard work; an agreement on which new questions are now being raised, in the light of the British Government's decision not to put to the vote the terms of the document, which I stress is not going to change its tenor as a result of the British Parliament's change of position with regard to the British Government, and I would like to draw your attention to an additional lesson that we must all draw from this scenario: the immense flow of time, effort and resources that we have lost along the way with Brexit; time, effort and resources that are very necessary to move forward in the design of the future for the European Union, to close the social and confidence gaps opened up by the recession, to discuss a path of regeneration and union around a project called Europe, and with which Spain is going to be today and always committed. We have an opportunity to show this commitment from tomorrow at the European Council to be held in Brussels, where we will deal with matters very relevant to the future of the European Union, firstly - and this is fundamental - because we are talking about the CAP, we are talking about cohesion policies, the multiannual financial framework, the financial perspective for the period 2021-2027. I would like to tell you that the position of the Government of Spain is that this multiannual financial framework should be approved before the European elections in May 2019. And today I would also like to reiterate before this House the commitment of the Government of Spain to adequate and sufficient funding in the next financial period. Secondly, there will also be discussions on how to complete and adapt the single market to the new digital economy, taking into account other policies such as industry, the environment and also innovation. We are also going to address issues relating to migration policy, and at this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reaffirm the commitment of the Spanish Government to stable support from the European Union for Morocco in the medium and long term. It is a real priority, as you know - I have said it many times - of first order for our country in order to be able to successfully address migration policy in our country and also in the neighbouring country. An important issue is that the European Council is also going to talk about climate change. You know that the COP24 meeting took place on 3 December in the Polish city of Katowice, and the Council should be involved in the proposal for a long-term climate strategy with a view to reaching an agreement already in the first half of next year. After the Council, the euro summit will take place: we will discuss the reform proposals for the eurozone in which Spain is going to shift a conviction, and it is that these agreed measures that we will support over the next two days go in the right direction, but they are insufficient for the Spanish Government. Greater ambition is needed, we need to strengthen our institutional architecture in the face of future crises, and above all in something fundamental to this Government, which is the social sphere. A monetary area that does not have a stabilisation instrument will always remain unfinished. This is what we have advocated in all the Councils, so we must move decisively towards a common budget that promotes convergence, competitiveness; we need, ultimately, tools to ensure that the level of investment is maintained during the economic crises, and move forward - this is one of the proposals we are leading in the European Council - in a common unemployment insurance that complements current national systems. It is ultimately a question of strengthening the European project politically, of combating public disaffection, relegitimizing the mechanisms of solidarity: to greater real solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, less space for hate speech; to greater social Europe, less space for rhetoric contrary to European values. This is the position that the Government will stand for at the European Council, which must serve, among other things, to look to the future, to devote all our energies, all the efforts to think about the Europe of the next decade, a project in which Spain will always have the leading vocation to unite and to move forward, never to divide or to retreat in a sense contrary to the logic of history. Ladies and gentlemen, I have alluded throughout my presentation to two ideas with which I want to frame the political regeneration project that this government is pushing, and it is that of transformation and that of union. I would like to keep both ideas in mind when dealing with the political situation in Catalonia at this point in my speech. I start from a previous conviction: I am fully convinced that the majority of Catalan society rejects unilateralism and longs for encounter and coexistence. This is what all the opinion studies say, which place the majority of citizens on the path of dialogue and the improvement of self-government; but even more so: not only do the opinion studies say this, it is dictated by the wisdom, the space of moderation in which the majority of Catalan society and Spanish society are located, which demand solutions from politics and not the enconation of positions, and in that space, ladies and gentlemen, they will find us, they will find us, the Government of Spain, in that of moderation and in that of sensible Spain that in Catalonia wants to regain common sense. As I have already said, the Executive defends the self-government throughout Spain that enshrines our Constitution, Title VIII, and it does so against those who point to a re-centralizing rhetoric that reproduces the mistakes of the past and leads only to failure. With the Brexit we could see to what extent - ladies and gentlemen, allow me this digression - marginal political forces could condition the discourse of an entire party like the Tory Party, today plunged into disconcertingness. At the beginning of my speech I told them that the situation in Catalonia requires the strengthening of our common project, in Spain. I believe that in order to combat independence, to combat these impulses of territorial fragmentation, what we have to do is to articulate a common project, a project of regeneration in our country, a plural Spain that is recognized in its diversity, which also defends equality between citizens, and consequently to strengthen that common project is to launch a project, first of all, of moral and political regeneration, of modernization of our economy and of strengthening social cohesion. First, the moral regeneration and the consequent demand for public exemplaryity came from the hand of a motion of censure that brought out the noble task of the political thing from the mud of corruption. [[Rumors]] Secondly, a political regeneration that continued with the lifting of the veto imposed on the House by the previous parliamentary majority of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. As a result, there are strong social projects in the field of rights, freedoms and labour dignity under parliamentary procedure, along with the implementation of the resolutions of the House, such as the exhumation of the dictator and the constitutional reforms to limit the strangulations and the new definition of article 49, which is a fair demand of the group of persons with disabilities. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, the modernization of our economy, a project that goes so far as to reverse harmful elements of labour reform, and in this regard I would like to ask those parliamentary groups that are dealing with it that Article 42 of the Workers' Statute be reformed in Congress as soon as possible; to approve a youth employment plan that will mobilise EUR 2 billion over the next three years, to reduce the youth unemployment rate by 10 points; to promote the Dignity Employment Master Plan, which has brought out thousands and thousands of self-employed fakes from labour exploitation; the transposition of directives abandoned by the previous Government; the creation of the macro-prudential authority and the institution defending the financial client; the impetus to the industry with the activation of industrial agendas in multiple sectors; the approval of the artist's status; the just energy transition with the people and with the damaged territories; a modernization, ladies and gentlemen, which also passes through the fight against and adaptation to climate change with the law that we will adopt before the end of this year. I would also say to the parliamentary groups that equal work between men and women should be dealt with more quickly by this House, by our commitment to territorial cohesion and infrastructure, by the defence in Brussels of our agricultural, livestock and fisheries sector, by the commitment to the CAP and the cohesion funds, by the commitment decided by the science and research of this government as multipliers in the productivity of our economy. Many of these measures are already under way, ladies and gentlemen; others are part of the budgetary alternative that the Government will present next January and the agenda for change, which we will also present in the coming months, with the firm commitment of the Government of Spain to consolidate our public accounts fiscally. I told them about moral and political regeneration, I told them about modernising our economy, all of which will only be possible from social cohesion. Spain can and must grow by better redistributing the fruits of that growth. That's why we're going to approve the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, that's why we've approved the extension of the social energy bonus. That is why we have regained the universality of public health and reversed educational cuts or also lost rights, such as the temporary disability allowance for public employees. That is why we have eliminated unjustifiable discrimination for groups with diabetes, HIV or celiac disease for access to public employment. That is why we have regained the right of women alone to insemination in the public health service portfolio. It is social cohesion that shields us from polarizing tensions, and it is social cohesion that also leads us to shield the upgrading of pensions to the CPI or to want to adopt a law to combat the violence suffered by minors. That is why we have also resolutely and resourcefully promoted the State Pact against Gender Violence. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I want to be very frank and very determined, especially for those political forces that are negotiating with the far right. The path of equality between men and women is irreversible, as is clear from the nostalgics of a time on which this country has moved. [[Applauds]] There are those who widen or reduce their ideological margins depending on the context and the negotiation. In our case I say this loud and clear: we are going to continue to advance women's rights, we are going to defend those who suffer some kind of exclusion and we are also going to fight against the re-centralizing threats that are being defended by the People's and Citizens' Party. [[Applauds]] The Government governs, looks to the future and faces the present with a firm step, from a project of political and moral regeneration, of modernization of our economy and of strengthening social cohesion. We are laying the foundations for the great transformation that Spain needs to win a decade in this changing era that we live in. That is the philosophy of the draft budgets that we are going to present at the beginning of 2019; a project that stands on five axes. One, education, science and culture; two, strengthening our welfare state and thus opening up a debate on taxation in our country; three, the labour market and the necessary entrepreneurial drive; four, the environment and the energy transition; and five, the regeneration of our institutions with territorial cohesion as a fundamental pillar. That is the road map of a Government that advances and appeals to wisdom to overcome challenges that, above all, require conviction, common sense and responsibility on the part of all. This is a shared task, which depends not only on the Government, mainly on the Government, but also on the parliamentary groups present here and on the autonomous communities. As far as the territorial debate is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Catalonia is concerned, I would like to tell you that the government is based on two certainties. First - I said it before -, what is at stake is coexistence and not independence. Independence as such is a project in my opinion that goes against history, that is outside the European project and that does not count - I stress, does not count - with the social majority of Catalans and Catalans. Secondly, the solution - I said it from the first minute - requires time, dialogue and loyalty; dialogue first between Catalans. The Catalan parliamentary forces must forge a new agreement within the constitutional framework, representing those three fifths of the parliamentary groups that are needed in the Catalonian Parliament to reform the Catalonian Autonomy Statute. That you do not have in the Parliament of Catalonia. So the first thing independence forces have to do is recognize the non-nationalist side of Catalonia and start forging a great deal of agreement between Catalans, no matter whether they are nationalists or non-nationalists. This is something you have to do. [[Applauds]] Therefore dialogue first between Catalans. And loyalty, ladies and gentlemen, loyalty; loyalty of the opposition with the Government of Spain. I ask no more, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, Mr Casado, than the same loyalty that I had as leader of the opposition with the Rajoy government. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u8	And loyalty between administrations, ladies and gentlemen, something that unfortunately is not built by statements that are out of logic and appeal to violence, as we have heard from some leader of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Let it therefore be recorded in the record: time, dialogue and loyalty. The Government is committed to dialogue and coexistence and not to putting coexistence at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, the shortest line between two points will always be the agreement and with that premise we have approached the establishment of bilateral commissions from the first minute between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat de Catalunya, which have been inactive since 2011. We have reduced litigation before the Constitutional Court; we have encouraged the return of Catalonia to forums such as the Technical Financing Commission to talk about a new model of autonomous financing; we have reached agreements on financing public services, pending investments, strategic infrastructures for the coming years in just six months; agreements with real impact on the real economy of Catalonia, such as the Mediterranean corridor, the La Sagrera station or the rolling plan. This is the path that the Spanish Government wants to continue to take in relation to Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen; this path has continuity in the adoption of budgets that represent a project of modernization and future for our society. A project to tackle the great transformations that our economy needs, to regain social and territorial cohesion after years of blockade, desidiy and paralysis. I do not want to quantify some of the measures that include these budgets in abstract terms; I want to do so in much closer terms, appealing to people rather than to territories, especially in this case appealing to Catalan society, because, look, the revaluation of pensions will benefit one and a half million Catalan pensioners. The increase in minimum and non-contributory pensions will benefit more than 300 000 Catalans and Catalans. Recovering the unemployment benefit for over fifty-two years of age will benefit more than 20,000 Catalans and Catalans. Paternity permits extended from five to eight weeks will benefit more than 36,000 Catalans and Catalans. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the path of dialogue, of the coexistence that the Government of Spain wants to go through. The one that allows us to find ourselves in a project to build, to transform Spain and with it also modernize Catalonia. Consequently, rejecting this project is impossible to close the social gap that still remains to be felt in much of Catalan society and Spanish society. Rejecting dialogue means relegating citizens, denying the reality of improving the quality of life in return for pursuing a chimera that will end - I guarantee - in a new frustration. Ladies and gentlemen, all I ask is for us to look outside, learn from the mistakes of other societies, draw lessons and act accordingly. Politicians are not at the service of the extremes, but of the vast majority of citizens who sit in the coordinates of moderation, security and social welfare. Brexit offers lessons that should be learned to confront those who make division their only alternative, and the most important lesson of all is the need to strengthen our democracy in the face of lies, alternative facts and the denial of reality and its real consequences, unfortunately very real, on people. It is precisely one of the most relevant aspects to be dealt with in this Council tomorrow that is related to the threat posed by the mechanisms of misinformation to our democracy, something which has been very present in the Brexit. If we humanize loss, if we are able to see the human dimension of division and fracture it is easier for us to find ourselves in the primacy of reason in the face of viscerality. In the case of Brexit, as in the case of those who advocate an internal tear in Catalonia, there is no winner, all are losers, especially the most humble, and also and especially the young. This reflection should be taken into account. The first duty of a ruler is to care for and guarantee social peace, coexistence. No democratic political project deserves to put at risk nothing or anyone, much less the lives of others. Ladies and gentlemen, in all societies there are crises and conflicts, and to solve them there is only one possible way, which is the constitutional way, which we have taken in Spain, the way of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, the way of coexistence and the recognition of plural identities built after centuries of living together. So there you will always find us, ladies and gentlemen, never on the path of hatred, confrontation and irresponsibility. We start from a common legacy that I want to appeal to once again. He warned the President of the Republic, Manuel Azaña, that it is the responsibility of politics not to condemn every generation to invent fire, to burn their hands; to maintain wisdom in the end, to avoid the temptation to believe that history begins in itself, and that everything that precedes us has been and is a mistake. The European Union is a success in its history, in a history of more than sixty years, a history that will transcend the disagreements in the management of a dramatic moment such as the economic crisis, and whose consequences, such as Brexit, we are still paying for. In the same way the collective project of a plural Spain that adds identities, from a unique diversity that enriches us, will overcome, I have no doubt, this hour with the teachings of a shared journey. A path that no one has the right to erase from Adamism to believe that history begins with us here and now. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u9	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u10	Thank you, Madam President. And the mountain gave birth to a mouse. I came here without prejudice, trying to hear what it seemed that since Moncloa was pumping throughout the week, there was going to be a response to the challenge - what was said in the corridors almost a week ago, in the commemoration of the 40th anniversary -, but at the end, as in The Birth of the Mountains, nothing, in what has become his Government, in nothing, in the hostage of those who put him in the blue bank, in that government that can only threaten him to threaten, because he owes his stay in La Moncloa to the votes of those who want to break Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, you were here on Thursday with the kings of Spain, with the emeritus kings, with the former presidents of the government and with the parents of the Constitution. There was talk of concord, of freedom, of legality, of equality and of freedom precisely of a plural, cohesive and vertebrate Spain - you were there and you were listening - and precisely all this is being put at risk right now since independence in Catalonia. You represent a State, the Kingdom of Spain, which is being completely attacked by those to whom you owe a shameful motion of censure which did not come to repair any morality but which plunged into immorality the Government of Spain, by the partners of a motion which, as I say, is leading Spain to the worst times. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, you swore or promised to defend the Constitution and you are not being able to defend it right now. You were quoting to Berlin. Berlin said that the freedom of wolves ended up assuming the death of the sheep. And what's going on is that, although it hurts to hear it, your Government is responsible for what's going on in Spain; of course it is responsible, as a government is responsible for unemployment or a government is responsible not for creating a fire, but for not knowing how to stifle it. His Government was therefore responsible for what was happening in Catalonia and what they were allowing the independenceists to do and came here to say that there was nothing more to say. What do you mean, there's nothing more to say? You come to the solemn sitting of this House to say absolutely nothing about Catalonia, to compare it with Brexit once again and, above all, to acknowledge that you cannot do anything because in the end it depends on those votes to stand. The problem is that his Government, in addition to being responsible, is becoming increasingly complicit in the situation. And you're very upset to say it, but if not, explain to me why you didn't correct the vice president when she said that Torra's threats to attack the state were just unfortunate words, or why you didn't correct your secretary general when you said that what happened on the 1-O, that kale borroka, was simply an absorptive violence, or why you didn't correct your foreign minister when you said that current Catalonia is already a nation, or your government delegate when you said that prisoners have to be pardoned, or your Minister of Territorial Administrations who says that pre-trial detention is not appropriate. Or explain to me why, then, you do not ask your Minister of Justice, absent - I thought you had already stopped it; it will not fall that short -, explanations about the termination of the person responsible for the Law of the State who was conducting the trial of the trial, so you have also come here to appear and nothing has said about that. [[Applauds]] Why has he not given any explanation since the Ministry of Justice instructed the prosecutor's office; that the Supreme Court said in a media outlet on every front that he was feeling intractable interference from the Government; that the State Attorney's Office had to withdraw the charge of rebellion, just as you had already been announcing in an interview and your entire Government had been applauding in a coral way. Therefore, of course you are responsible, and the problem we have, Mr Sánchez, is that you come here and explain absolutely nothing. What else has to happen in Catalonia for you to do something? You don't think they beat up cops who show up? Does it seem to you little that they pour manure at the door of a courthouse? Does it seem to you that they throw yellow paint at a judge's portal or that they crush you in a restaurant instead of summer? Does it seem to you that the president of the People's Party has his car wheels blown off and he has swastikas on him? Does it seem little to you that the former president of the People's Party is marked with yellow ties his house, as did the Nazis in the 1930s? What else has to happen in Catalonia, Mr. Sánchez? Does it seem to you little to come here and not announce anything that the highways cut off in the face of the inaction of the Mossos and that the Mossos unions say they have political instructions? Do you think little that Lledoners becomes the cathedral of prisoners * Not only does he think little, but he wants to do the same in the Basque Country, bringing prisoners closer and giving up penitentiary institutions. [[Rumors]] [[Butterflies]] [[Applauds]] And the top, comes here to talk about Yugoslavia and says he knows Yugoslavia, that country of squadron and cardbon artificially created in 1918 that bled out in a civil war. His partner in the motion of censure, who came here to moralize the House, is the one who has appealed to a civil war, to a bloodshed to compare the situation in Spain. His partner Torra is the one who has said since his retirement in Montserrat, while making that protein diet the imprisoned lords *, who appeals to the Slovenian solution, which claimed 63 victims and which came to follow that demarcated, as you said, Yugoslavia, which claimed 25,000 dead in Croatia, 100,000 in Bosnia and 10,000 in Kosovo. [[Butterflies]] [[laughs]] Therefore, do not come here to give history lessons. What you have to say is that that is absolutely inconceivable and incomparable with what has to happen in Spain, and you go with Mr. Torra to walk through the Machadian fountains in the Moncloa, where you fell in love with Guiomar. Well, if you read Machado, you'll know that more than seeing black reality, it's even worse to deny it, which is what you do, not to see it. Or if you read Machado, you might also know that political evil is the one that tries to blow the wind where it puts the candle and the one that succeeds is the one that puts the candle where the wind blows. And there is a hurricane wind in Catalonia and the rest of Spain that calls for you to act, that calls for the application of Article 155 once and for all, that the Constitution be put into practice to end this coup against the unpunished State, for which your Government is also responsible for inaction. [[applause]] Mr Sánchez, in the first and only interview we had in Moncloa on 2 August, he said: I ask for responsibility from the opposition. Hey, call us on the phone, if you want. I do not know whether you have already broken up relations, if you speak to me, if you do not speak to me, not about Gibraltar, not about budgets, not about constitutional reforms, not about Catalonia. Hey, what do you say to me? On 2 August I said to him: you have the support of the People's Party, of the absolute majority of the Senate of the People's Party to implement article 155, to do so for the time it takes, to do so with the appointment of the Government from the central government of Spain, of course, and to do so in the competences that are already urgent to apply: in budgetary stability, taking over the Finance; in the education issues to end indoctrination; in the public media to end that propaganda subsidized by our taxes and also, of course, in the penitentiaries, in which there is an unprecedented inequality in Spain with regard to some prison in Catalonia and, of course, also in the policy of the Interior with regard to the Mossos d'Esquadra. I told you that five months ago, I've been claiming it every week from this seat in almost every plenary session. And you come here to say that we have to take responsibility for nothing, for the fable of Aesop to stop a mouse. Mr. Sánchez, we have not asked what we could legitimately continue to do, because I remind you that we have fifty more seats than you and that we have an absolute majority in the Senate. It is very good to ask for 155, but it is better to ask it from a bench that can apply and approve it. And in the meantime, since you did not want to apply it and you are shielding yourself in the mockery of these buenist and voluntarist debates with which you dedicate us this morning, we have been doing many other things. We have proposed that the offence of illegal calling for a referendum be re-enacted, so that we stop the Ibarretxe plan and what could be done for the Torra plan. We have also proposed that the Pardons Act be amended since February to prohibit pardons for those convicted of rebellion and sedition. We have also proposed that the Act on budgetary stability be implemented and that Catalonia's finances be taken. We have also proposed the amendment of the Political Parties Financing Act so that no organization convicted of rebellion or sedition can receive public funds; that the Party Act be applied so that any organization that makes kale borroka or encourages violence, as is happening in Catalonia, can be illegalized. We have also said that the Foreign Action Act needs to be amended to close the bad so-called embassies. We have proposed a law of symbols to stop you from occupying public space with yellow ties, with which you let Torra enter the palace of the Moncloa. We have also proposed, for example, that insults to the Crown should not be decriminalized, which you voted with the same independent politicians in this House. Yesterday we proposed that the salaries be increased to judges and prosecutors - fifty have already left Catalonia in what goes on in the year -. We have also proposed that you use the National Security Act and the Citizen Security Act to put order in the Home Office. What else? 1 * Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[See the President's speech on page 65.]] Can we do it? What we say to you is that the next Council of Ministers, on 21 December, you initiate compliance with the Constitution to Mr Torra and we go to the Senate to vote once and for all on Article 155. [[Applauds]] 'Cause this doesn't make any more sense, Mr. Sanchez. It doesn't make any more sense. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, your partner Torra wanted to balkanize Spain and has been writing it in all his xenophobic, supremacist and racist writings for a long time. The only thing he's achieved has been to ulsterize Catalonia. He's got Catalonia split in half. He's got neighbors not to take the elevator when they see another neighbor. He's made sure families don't stay for Christmas Eve dinner this year. He got traders to have the store labeled. He's got kids ridiculed in recess for speaking another language. It has made it possible for constitutionalists to have to be escorted every time we visit a beloved and beloved land, such as Catalonia. You've got it all, Torra, and you come here to say that you can't do any more and to compare what I don't know with Brexit. Mr. Sanchez, land. This doesn't make any more sense. As you want to compare - and very skilfully - the subject of Catalonia with the subject of Brexit and the European Council, I ask you to inform the Community partners of what is happening in Spain. You're going to Brussels tomorrow. I will also go to a previous meeting with my members of the People's Party. By the way, if you don't mind, I'll give you my opinion without you calling me an anti-patriot. I will tell you what I think of what the Government of Spain is doing. I will not speak ill of Spain, I will speak ill of the Government of Spain, as you did, by the way, from the opposition every day and for no reason. [[Applauds]] I will also talk about what you have done with the negotiation of Brexit and Gibraltar. You, with that empty solemnity, try to commulgate us with mill wheels. You try to tell us that the negotiation you have made on Gibraltar has been a success - a round success, I think the minister said - when it has been a historic failure. You come here to say that the letter of consolation sent to you personally by the President of the Council and the Commission and an ambassador of the British Reper - of course, the next day he sent a letter to the contrary to Brussels - is a historic agreement for Spain, when it has been an unprecedented humiliation. The day after his solemn appearance, May was ovated in Westminster when he said that the Spanish Government had achieved nothing, Mr Picardo was in Gibraltar and the President of Lithuania laughed at him when he was asked how the Spanish Government had come out of that negotiation. We told him; I on October 24th, and you answered me: Here is the right one with the Gibraltar issue. He denied it. You remember, don't you? If it comes out, fine; and, if not, so too. We've been reminding him that the negotiation wasn't going well. I told him what happened in March 2018; those Council guidelines, that clause 24 with which Spain had the key and nothing could be agreed about Gibraltar without Spain's agreement. We told him to join the treaty. There's no point in the letters. The treaty is the law. If we have been talking for three hundred years about United Nations treaties and resolutions, what will a personal letter from the President of the Council or a letter from Mr Barrow, who will no longer be an ambassador to Brussels, serve in five years' time? We told him he had to be incorporated. We told you it was a historic opportunity for Spain, for Cadiz, for Andalusia and also for Gibraltar and the United Kingdom, as clause 24 said, but you capitulated because you were in Cuba grabbing a dictator while the future of Spain was being negotiated. I was in Cuba negotiating Brexit. [[Applauds]] Well, the treaty comes - which is all that matters here - and the treaty says exactly what we all know, what has been interpreted in Westminster. I do not know what the German Foreign Minister has said; I say what the treaty says. Therefore, if Mrs May does not get the favourable vote, she is relieved today and the treaty must be renegotiated, I tell her what I told her that day. It will have the support to negotiate what was already negotiated, it will have the support to maintain clause 24 in article 184 and it will have the support for a future plan for Gibraltar that includes co-oberania; dual nationality; the withdrawal of the fence; the equal rights and obligations of the workers of the Gibraltar Field who are going to work in Gibraltar without equal wages, retirement or social benefits; a special economic and fiscal regime of the Gibraltar and Ceuta Field for Spain to be a strategic commercial hub in the Strait; an investment plan, but not that of the Andalusian electoral campaign, but indeed - it does not announce a billion as in Welcome, Mr Marshall, when it then does not even have budgets to approve them - and, above all, it is a historic issue, that Spain recovers what the treaties already say, what the European Union says, says common sense and what the People's Party Government negotiated and that you have failed, out of desire and also saying that it has been a success. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, you can fool some of them all the time - some of your partners have succeeded -, you can cheat everyone for a short time too, but not everyone all the time. Don't take us for fools, Mr Sánchez, on the subject of budgets. You're talking about coming with the budgets for the third time. In addition, I heard the Minister of Finance say that now, as she does not want to wait for this parliamentary roll that the People's Party has - the legitimate ballot box; not like her, who lost the elections - it turns out that she is not going to change the spending ceiling or the deficit path. That is to say, with 1.3 you intend to introduce a budget that had 7 billion more public expenditure? Do you, with that 1.3, if you don't get the change of path, intend to fool Europe, the OECD and the IMF again? When he told me that he was a patriot of cans for telling what was going to happen, he received on the same day - on a Thursday - the three communications of international agencies. And you intend to go to Brussels tomorrow to deceive them again? He won't be able all the time. How do you come here to say that you are going to raise the interprofessional minimum wage? Did not 4% and 8% go up with the People's Party? Has it not been agreed with the employer and the trade unions to increase to 850 euros by 2020? What are you bragging about? [[Applauds]] He says they're going to raise their pensions. Thank you very much, we agreed on an average of 1.6 per cent, yes, 8 per cent widowhood and a minimum of 3 per cent. [[applause.- Rumors.-The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: No, no]] Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez, these are our budgets. But I tell you more - so that you do not try to sell it in the next plenary as your own - you are obliged to raise the salary to public employees around 2, 2, 25 or 2.5% on the basis of the institutional agreement that we have already reached. You are obliged to respect the salary matching of the State Security Forces and Bodies with 300 million euros, and you are obliged to make the deliveries to the autonomous communities of 4 billion, and you only have this month to do so. [[applause]] That's what you - because you don't have budgets - have to do, because it's the commitments that the People's Party came to, that so antisocial, that so wicked that it's the one that creates three million jobs, which are the ones that you now put at risk. Or have you not seen the employment figures in November, five times slower than last November? Or have you not seen the EUR 70 billion that the Spanish Stock Exchange has lost to its investors? Or the hundreds of millions of tariff deficits? Or a risk premium that's no longer 70 but 130? So, lessons from those, none, Mr. Sanchez. And the more I tell you, here is a problem with the Brussels issue. You went to Marrakech and also went to Rabat to negotiate a football world, you did not go to negotiate that immigration crisis by which you also insulted us by saying what was going on, by the effect called, by the massive arrival, by leaving the State Security Forces and Bodies undefended. You have gone to Morocco but not to negotiate that, the midwives continue to arrive, the cayucos continue to arrive; a football world is going to be negotiated and then returns to negotiate with the UN again a boonist appeal to multiculturalism without bringing any clear action. Mr. Sanchez, run it at once, we'll have to do something. I'm going to give you an example that I don't know if you'll know. Franklin said an empty bag couldn't stand up. Mr. Sanchez, that's what happens to you. You have the oracles of the Presidency of the Government, the liturgy of the Presidency of the Government; the problem is that you have emptied it of content, you have removed that institutionality to confront the enemies of Spain, you have stripped it of that dignity - no offense - for having as partners the Batasuns, the lords of Esquerra Republicana or the PDeCat, who ask for the Slovenian way. It has stripped it of all content and, however much they try to hold it on one side and on the other its partners, that bag is not going to stand. You must be aware that your time is over, your adventure is over, Mr. Sanchez. In Andalusia they told him loud and clear. You told me last week: the result you are going to reap in the Andalusian elections will not please you. I think, as I read in the press, that whoever didn't like it went to his desk at yesterday's group meeting. [[Applauds]] And I think that those who are not going to like what we are going to find in San Telmo when we enter the government are their socialist voters, who will know what they have done for thirty-six years at the expense of their taxes, their future and their progress, Mr Sánchez. The warning has been given to you and I think you should be aware that sometimes you have to keep your word. I was telling him about Catalonia - and I'm going to appeal to him -: Who seeks appeasement, in the end will have a confrontation and a disgrace. The appeasement will not bring you anything but it will not bring anything good to Spain its flight forward. So what you have to do, Mr Sánchez, is to keep your word, to call general elections as soon as possible and, above all, to do so before it is too late for your party and for our country. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u11	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u12	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u13	Wait a minute, Mr. Iglesias. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Anyone who doesn't want to keep quiet, get out of the Chamber. I won't repeat it again. Go ahead, Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u14	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of my Confederal Parliamentary Group, I would first like to express my solidarity with the French people and with the victims and relatives of the victims of yesterday's attack. [[Applauds]] I should like to draw attention to the fact that, for some people, the Brexit agreement is a minor issue today, at a time when Europe is experiencing a crossroads that affects us. The Brexit agreement takes place in a very special context, and I think it is very worrying, which we should certainly face with a calmer tone. The context for Brexit is the lack of alternatives to anti-social policies that have created serious problems in European political systems. Today the rise of the extreme right in Europe, today what Salvini represents, what Le Pen represents, what Brexit represents is the end of the European difference, if Europe at some point aspired to be the place where social rights and human rights existed. The context in which this agreement takes place is also that of a popular uprising against President Macron, which has caused President Macron to assume that he is going to have a deficit of 3.5%. It draws my attention to the fact that our citizens' friends said that our budget agreement could be a problem because it did not reach 2% and yet it is assumed with normality that in France it will have a budget of 3.5%. I would like my country to have the same capacity to do politics as France and this is a non-minor issue in the context of an agreement that I believe we can assume is not good. It's an agreement that puts the interests of big capitals and multinationals back in front of people's interests. It is an agreement that is part of a crisis of legitimacy of the European project. With regard to Gibraltar, we have to acknowledge that some progress has been made and we have to commend a certain firmness of the Government, although it seems to us insufficient. Defending sovereignty is defending people, defending Spain is defending the Spaniards and in this case defending the people of the Campo de Gibraltar. Historically, the patriotic sufflamas of some Governments in this country have served to make the people working in the Gibraltar Field more dependent on the Peñón and to make those 13,000 citizens a situation of poverty and insecurity that should embarrass all those we call ourselves patriots. [[Applauds]] Patriotism, although it is hard for some to understand, is not about flags, it is about defending people. We would have liked the Government to have had the same firmness as it had with the Gibraltar issue in defending the budgets we agreed on in Europe. Everyone acknowledges that, unfortunately, we have defended this agreement on budgets more in Spain than the Government itself, but we cannot defend it in Europe. Look, Mr President, as Spanish I would like my Government to be able to do the same as Mr Macron is going to do, to assume that when people point the way a president has to follow the path that people are pointing the way. With regard to Catalonia, which seems to be the most interesting issue for all parliamentary groups, I believe that we must assume with calm that talking about the territorial issue in Spain is talking about a historical issue, an issue that has been present every time a democratic period has opened up in our country; that the territorial crisis is something common in our history and, surely, we will have to assume it with something more natural and constructive spirit. Forty years ago, the Generalitat, a pre-Constitution republican institution, which the Constitution itself had to recognize, was recognized in this country. The Constitution of 78, which was a very difficult text to assemble, already spoke of regions and nationalities. What does the word nationality mean, gentlemen of the right-wing benches? It means explicitly recognizing in the text of 78 that Spain was a plurinational reality. Then came a debate that was very complex in our country. The term historical nationality was intended only for some territories, and in Andalusia the Andalusians went out on the street on 4 December, and that spirit led to a 28 February that caused a complex territorial reality to be built in our country, a territorial reality that came from the management of conflicts that are consubstantial to our way of being as a country. And the coffee came for everyone and the autonomous state came. Surely, it is a model full of defects and, surely, it is an exhausted model and a model that was not able to give us a Chamber of Territorial Representation and that continued to conceive the Senate as a chamber that was part of the cemetery of elephants that the old Francoist prosecutors needed to have a professional exit and that in these forty years we have not been able to turn into a Chamber of Territorial Representation. [[Applauds]] But you know, like me, that when we talk about these things, we talk about the political role that feelings play in politics. I think I am not lying if I say that those of us who have political responsibilities would have to be able to deal with something more responsible with what feelings represent when it comes to shaping political reality. Today we have a reality in Catalonia which is what it is. Independentist political forces, representing citizens who would like Catalonia to be an independent state, rule legitimately in Catalonia because citizens have voted for them. But it is no less true that in those elections the most voted party was Citizens, who defend little less than the end of the autonomous communities. And it is no less true that the political force I represent here won the last two general elections in Catalonia. The reality of Catalonia is an enormously plural reality, where feelings are playing a decisive role. And I think that those of us here should at least assume the obligation to be responsible. We're in a context of inflammation. We have heard President Torra say something that no independentist thinks, because no independentist wants a war in Catalonia, because no independentist wants to go to the Yugoslav context. And we have told Mr. Torra: you have said something you do not think; you have been warmed up. Because in politics no one, no one, we're free to keep our mouths warm. [[Rumors]] And it is true that there is a political style, ladies and gentlemen, which is being imposed. It is a style marked by Twitter; we have seen what has influenced the Catalan conflict. We all saw that when the Government of the Generalitat had made a decision, which seemed sensible to some of us, a tweet appeared saying: 155 silver coins. And we have all seen how the President of the Generalitat warmed his mouth to show that he is more radical than others who criticize his strategy. And I think there are a lot of people in Catalonia who, even if they have difficulty saying this publicly, understand it. At the same time, it must be said that there is an indecent exceptionality in this country. Many of you recognize me in private that it is indecent for Catalan political prisoners to remain in pre-trial detention, while some work for Commissioner Villarejo to be released from prison. [[Applauds]] I hope some of those who recognize certain issues in private have the courage to recognize it in public, and this goes for one another and goes for another. You, Lords of the Right, are in the logic of 'a for them', in the logic that is given to an irresponsible strategy of José María Aznar. And we miss a responsible right in this country, a right with state height. [[Rumors]] I heard the speech of the President of Congress on the 40th anniversary of the Constitution. I do not agree with many of the things he said, but I wish the People's Party would sound a little more like Ana Pastor and a little less like José María Aznar. [[Applauds]] And while we are talking about these things, ladies and gentlemen, the issues that really matter to the citizens in Catalonia and Spain, or that matter to many people, many people who do not arrive at the end of the month, who are listening to us here talking about flags, but who need a minimum wage, who are unemployed for more than fifty-two years who need help and a subsidy, students who need to lower their tuition, workers who are tired of working in precarious conditions, people who need a little patriotism to arrive at the end of the month, who need political sentiments to have to do with the daily difficulties that many compatriots have to reach the end of the month, and who are beginning to be sick of the fact that here we only speak out and here we only talk about the size of the flags. Therefore, today I have to ask you what I also said to Mr.Torra: Breathe, Mr.Torra, breathe before speaking, breathe before writing a tweet. And I say that to you too, Mr President of the Government. There are many sectors that are pressing you to fire Catalonia. Don't do it, it's not good for Spain, it's not good for Catalonia, it's not good for an immense majority of citizens who need patriotism, but patriotism of reaching the end of the month. [[Applauds]] I will remember something that a politician who is not from my party and with whom I have many differences told me. When I met with Mr. Urkullu in the Lehendakaritza, he told me something that has been around my head ever since: A good deal is never satisfactory to anyone. I wish such sensible expressions would begin to be part of our political culture. A good agreement will never be satisfactory for everyone, but I believe that more agreements are needed in this country. And I think the motion of censure we did here built a country horizon. That country horizon to get the corrupt out of institutions gave hope to many people. We turn that country's horizon into a possibility of state leadership, a historic commitment between which we think differently to curb the reaction sponsored by Aznar and his three parties. Let us turn that historic commitment into a recognition that Spain must be plurinational and that there must be a State that we all share. Let us turn that spirit of the motion of censure into a new style. When we speak of republicanism, we do not need to quote the great Don Manuel Azaña, whom many have handled at his will without real respect for his ideas. When we talk about Republican style, we talk about feminist style. We need fraternity, but we also need sorority, we need empathy, we need to listen. Mr President, budgets can be a starting point, and it cannot be that we defend them more than you do. 21 have a chance; let's talk, let's talk, let's talk. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u15	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u16	Thank you, President. Citizenship chooses us, among other things, to solve problems. Today, unfortunately, it has become clear once again that, as far as Catalonia is concerned, there are groups in this House, for the moment, one, who insist on remaining more part of the problem than of the solution, and that we have not yet reached the intervention of Citizens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u18	Recognize that, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and of Citizens, they are not being able to bring Catalonia anything but chasm and tension. So, that's what Mr. Rivera has to do today, that with the only matches he can deal with are PP and Vox; let's see how Mr. Valls explains it in his campaign. And is it that - and this is evidence - as much as the same arguments are repeated, screaming more or screaming less, we should already understand that doing the same cannot lead us to a different end, because, really, is someone believed that the attack on self-government that involved the application of 155 was not perceived as an intolerable aggression by many people in Catalonia? Or could anyone say that the DUI, which completely ignored what more than half of Catalan citizenship thought, has achieved any of its objectives? And where, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, has the judicialization of a political conflict led us? Are you proud that there are political prisoners and prisoners unjustly accused of crimes that exist anywhere else in Europe? And what did the chrispation do? What is the function of challenging language, incendiary gestures or empty epic? All this has served nothing more than to cause pain to a citizen who is largely exhausted and who expects much more from most of his political class. We need another tone, other forms and, above all, other policies. Mr. Sanchez, to solve the conflict, you can't go back to failed prescriptions. The right cannot impose an agenda that bets only on confrontation, judicialization and 155. Quim Torra is an discredited, isolated president. He will surely be remembered as the worst president in Catalonia's history, but considering any action that questions Catalonia's self-government or the functions of Parliament again would be a very serious mistake, a mistake that would also take us away from the opportunity to build a political alternative to the reactionary alliance of the rights of PP, Vox and Citizens. You said at the time that a referendum for self-government was needed in Catalonia. Well, although it's not the right to decide that the PSC was defending in 2012, it's a start. We agree that Catalan citizens must decide our future democratically. Our proposal has always been to hold a referendum for Catalonia to decide what relationship it wants to have with the rest of the state. Let us, then, advance along that path. Let's talk about what kind of referendum we'd like. Let us do what other countries have already done, a pact of clarity with all the Catalan political and social forces involved, and let us start at once the path that leads us to a possible solution, that of agreeing that Catalan citizens vote and decide. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT and Esquerra, we want to be very clear: they cannot keep their isolation; they cannot pretend to live in the bubble of 'no matter what happens in the state', because they want it or not what happens affects us all. We cannot continue with a Government of the Generalitat that not only does not govern, but also listens to the social demands and mobilizations that affect the main public services of Catalonia: primary care, schools, institutes, universities, firefighters, Mossos. It is inexplicable that with this scenario the Government sees no reason to sit down and negotiate the state's budgets. [[Applauds]] By the way, it is enough to say that it is Sánchez's budgets, because they know very well that these budgets would not have been presented by the PSOE alone or jokingly. [[Applauds]] It turns out that while you don't find time to negotiate budgets that Catalonia and its citizens need indisputably - you know that too - instead you do sit down and negotiate the TV3 dome with Citizens and the PSC. This can't go on like this, because it doesn't make any sense. That is why - and I finish now - we believe it is essential that all the forces that we put Rajoy to show that there is an alternative to the trident that today sponsors José María Aznar and whose political agenda is very clear: they will insist on aggressiveness and on the order and command with Catalonia to extend a climate of tension and maximum alarm to the whole State. They will try to use this context to impose authoritarian, re-centralizing, sexist, racist and homophonous discourses and policies. And in view of that we must be able to consolidate a proposal that draws a present and a future that is opposed to yours, a proposal that allows us to continue pushing what was on 15-M, on March 8, Republicanism, the struggles for sovereignty and the right to decide. That alliance is not an abstract issue; we must come to concrete agreements to improve people's lives, and that obviously goes through the adoption of budgets that all citizens need and that also needs as the air the Generalitat of Catalonia. Giving that answer is not only our obligation, but also our responsibility, because in the face of authoritarian rights we must build an alternative of diverse forces, proud to continue demanding and winning rights, without fear, calm, respectful and able to agree to push a multi-national, feminist and radically democratic proposal. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. My colleagues have previously abounded in the Catalan issue - I think it is with great success - and I would like to take this part of my speech to point out something that alarmed me about the President of the Government's intervention, and it is his vision of European affairs with a fundamentally bureaucratic bias, that is, without going into the depth of the issues. I think that's a problem because we should see brexit as a symptom. Mr. Sánchez does, but I think he's failing to dig a little deeper. The reasons that led the citizens of the United Kingdom to vote for Brexit are complex, uneven, but there is no doubt that we must be alert to this alarm signal, which ultimately means a process of decomposition of the current European Union. We need to be aware that there are economic elites, policies that would prefer to repeat the vote, perhaps even yourself. It would not be the first time; in the past some people such as the Netherlands, France and Ireland have already voted against this construction of the European Union and votes have been repeated or have been taken to ignore that decision, ignoring, therefore, the first signs of alarm that were already coming out through democratic procedures. This time it seems that this path is not going to be possible, this time it seems that we have to listen and, therefore, what we have to be aware of is that listening means listening to the whole climate, the climate leading to riots in France, the rise of the extreme right, the negative effects of the consequences of austerity, all that the European institutions, whether from the European Union or the euro area, have not wanted to hear. The European Central Bank, for example, with all the power it wields, even greater power than that of this Parliament, has been unable, however, to foresee all these kinds of circumstances. Therefore, there is a fundamental level of incompetence here that needs to be reviewed. I believe that this European Union has made it clear that it is not the European Union of the Social Pact or the European Union that would have wished even the social democratic parties since the post-war years that contributed to building that idea of the Social Pact. This European Union is the European Union of neoliberalism, the European Union for the benefit of the interests of the big capitals, especially the big capitals of the central countries, such as Germany. It is a European Union that has a flawed architecture, an architecture against the social majorities that end up showing symptoms of exhaustion with these processes and, therefore, a progressive government is expected to propose some kind of alternative to these underlying problems and we are not left with questions about how to manage the exit of the Brexit, but to explore what is failing in the European Union so that more and more parts of Europe will be clear symptoms of the exhaustion of this current European Union. That is why - I finish already - the idea is very simple: Europeanism, another vision of Europe, is built on other values and principles, and this current European Union shows signs of exhaustion that should lead to reflection by progressive governments, and you have the opportunity to do that. He has seen what is happening in Italy, he has heard what comrade Pablo Iglesias has said about Macron, that the deficit is going to go to 3.5%. Why does the Spanish Government not use it to question the neoliberal foundations of the European Union? Because they are fundamentals that go against the families and working classes of all parts of Europe. If we do not now, then we cannot cry for the dramatic, political effects that take place in the rest of Europe. We therefore advocate a different European Union, a different Europe, and there is also a need for an alternative on the part of this government. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u21	Mr Gómez-Kingdom Varela has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u22	Good morning to all and to all, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I have to be very brief today, as almost always in these appearances, almost telegraphic. In any case, since En Marea we recognize ourselves absolutely in the impressions on the Catalan question that the other speakers of the Confederal Group have put on the table. In any case, quickly, on Europe, beyond rhetoric - we have been saying it for a long time - we must take very seriously what is happening in the European Union. We have already said this in other appearances at the European Council: migration, security, the euro. We are faced with a Europe that is completely sluggish and we must take Brexit seriously once and for all - we have already said this in this House -. We play a lot and we play a lot our productive sectors, our agriculture at the time we are negotiating the CAP, but also - that we are going to talk about today - our fishing sector is playing a lot. Our fishing is also a matter of State, not simply Gibraltar. Galician fishing and Spanish fishing can be very affected by Brexit. We're talking about thousands of jobs. So we are going to ask you two questions or two specific considerations about the Brexit and about the question of the fisheries sector, our demands, on the Sea, on the Confederal Group, on the whole of the Galician fisheries sector and on the whole of the State. Firstly, high and clear, it is essential to link access to the European market for British products to our fleet's access to water in today's terms, reciprocity. If they want to sell us their products without tariffs, as they have so far, they must allow us to fish as we have so far. We want to know whether you are going to defend this position, which is our position and that of the fisheries sector. Secondly, let us put an end to the principle of relative stability, which established an unfair allocation in different quotas, specifically in that of the mackerel, the mackerel. Now we have a magnificent opportunity, let's play our ball, let's distribute the stock where Spain is the most deficient country. That is where your Minister of Agriculture, with whom we speak today when we enter this hearing, and your Minister of Foreign Affairs to consult this issue, and with this we ask you to answer us. Are they going to defend the interests of our fisheries sector or are they going to continue to remain passive? Remember, Mr Sánchez, Brexit is equal to fishing, Galicia is a fishing power and we ask you to comply with Galicia. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u23	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u24	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens who are following this debate today, President of the Government, we are experiencing a delicate moment for Europe and a delicate moment for Spain as a national project because they want to challenge our democracy, they want to break our country. I agree with one thing you have raised. The challenge we have here today is not just a Spanish challenge, it is a European challenge, and as such I am going to try to treat it and as our party has always thought so. Sixty years ago we built the best project that man has invented, which is the European Union, a project to bury weapons, a project to turn a blood continent into a continent of freedom, a project to turn a continent of war into a continent of freedom, equality, union and solidarity. That European Spain that we are talking about is the one that I want to bring here today, but I am already telling you one thing, Mr Sánchez, that Europe has been built against people like Torra, that Europe has been built despite the partners who spit out the foreign minister, that Europe has been built to fight the poison of Europe, which is nationalism, not to join it. [[Applauds]] So Brexit has to be used as a vaccine, as an element that shows that Europe is at risk. The architects of the Brexit have been the nationalists, their partners, the Farage in turn, the Torra, the Puigdemonts, the Rufiáns, who spit on the minister. And you have chosen them as partners; that is your great historical mistake, Mr Sánchez. I am not going to yell at you or say great things, but I am saying to you, Mr Sánchez, that you will pass into history, first, as the President who ruled Spain least and, second, as the President who was able to ally himself with those who want to liquidate Spain. [[Applauds]] And the Spaniards are going to correct him at the polls. As regards the first question, to the Brexit, two clear questions. One, we've missed a chance, Mr. Sanchez. You say that we are better than before, but we had a great opportunity; the opportunity to have the United Kingdom at a crossroads in a wrong decision in my opinion - legitimate but wrong - that is to leave the European Union. We had an absolutely preponderant position on the question of Gibraltar. You, in front of that, what did you do, Mr. Sanchez? Going to visit the Cuban dictatorship, spending a few days watching the dictators in Cuba while in Europe we were getting a goal for the squad at the last minute. That is what you did, Mr Sánchez, and we would have liked you to be in Brussels. [[Applauds]] I know you like pictures a lot, but I'm entering a picture with the Cuban dictatorship... By the way, you didn't meet with the dissidents. Do you remember that I told you in this rostrum? You're going to meet the dissidents? And he joked here, as if human rights were a joke. You did not meet with them; you went to see the Cuban dictatorship, you walked through Havana while in Brussels the possible cosuberanía of Gibraltar was at stake, while in Europe the rights of many European citizens were at stake with Brexit. You were with the dictatorship and didn't meet with the dissidents. That's the president I don't want for my country. I want a president who, if he visits a country, also meets with dissidents when there is a dictatorship. And I want a president that if you have to cancel a trip to fight a historic situation of three hundred years, you come to Spain - since you take many planes and helicopters - take the plane, but to go to Brussels to negotiate, not to go to a brother-in-law's wedding. [[Applauds]] So, about the brexit, first, missed opportunity. You say it's binding. Yes, for the European Union, but not for the United Kingdom, not for them; they have already said it, they have made it very clear, not for them. It is binding on the European Union, not on them, that is the problem. I do not trust those who have decided to leave the European Union, I trust the European partners, but you want to sell us that the commitment is from Europe and that is clear. The problem is that on the other side we had it at a crossroads and you have missed that opportunity. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, if we reopen the debate, if we renegotiate any end of that contract, of that great agreement, I ask you to fight, to fight, not to leave with the plane somewhere else, to be in Brussels. You're going to have our support, Mr. Sanchez. Yes, for Spain, not for you, but for Spain you will have our support. [[Applauds]] But he's going to have our support to fight that cosuberanía, to fight the labor rights of many Spaniards; to fight, in short, for something that supposedly, according to his words a month earlier, was all headed and bound. Therefore, if there is a correction, if there is a debate again, negotiate, Mr Sánchez, ask for support from this House. Surely it is better to go by the hand of the parliamentary majority, even a reinforced majority, than not to go alone or disappear from the map. So, with regard to Brexit, opportunity lost; with regard to Gibraltar, opportunity lost. You have to take that chance back if there's a chance. The rings do not fall to me, Mr Sánchez, as to you who does not call or count on anyone; although you do not call the groups of the House, even if you do not want dialogue, we for Spain are also responsible for supporting - not you - the President who currently holds the Presidency of the Government in Moncloa. Second issue, Mr Sánchez, Catalonia. As for Catalonia, the first thing I want to say is that the problem is not Catalonia, the problem we have is Spain. What is at stake in Catalonia is not just what happens in Catalonia and between Catalans - which of course -; it is a problem of what model of society we want, what Spain we want, what Spain we want to live in. Mr Sánchez, I do not want to live in a Spain in which we must ask permission to go to a people or a city in Spain, not the head of state, not the Council of Ministers, not the civil guards or a political party. That's the Spain you're allowing to happen. I want to live in a Spain where a Council of Ministers can go anywhere and the head of state can go wherever he wants and when a political party pays tribute to the Civil Guard in Alsasua I would like the President of the Government, instead of insulting us, instead of calling us dogs, as Mr Ander Gil does, to be on our side, the Civil Guard and the victims of terrorism. That's the country I want to live in. [[Applauds]] I tell you one thing, Mr Sánchez, in that Council of Ministers you will land in Catalonia and leave Catalonia, but the Catalans are there and we endure every day. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, you will talk about hearing, but the people who are there suffering, with fear, with concern we endure every day your partners, Mr. Sánchez, we endure every day a lord who calls you and me mad beasts, with a difference, you don't care and I do. I do care if you call me a mad beast a gentleman who is a xenophobic, whom you called the Le Pen of Spanish politics; you were right, I don't know if it was Pedro Sánchez or the president of the government who said it, but you were absolutely right. Mr. Sánchez, how can you rule by the hand of those who want to liquidate our nation, how can you stay there at any price and in any way. I understand that you have a desire to be president of the government, but I recommend one thing, go through the ballot boxes, don't be afraid of the ballot boxes. Seeing Andalusia, I understand you're afraid of the ballot box, but, really, it's okay. The Spaniards have to decide. You, Mr Sánchez, have not been voted by the Spaniards to form a government at the hands of Bildu, Torra, Rufián and Puigdemont; you have built it for yourself. And there you have the results in Andalusia, a first appetizer of what awaits you if you continue along that path. Mr Sánchez, I am not going to ask you to rectify, you have already gone too far; I am not going to ask you to change your policy, sanchismo has already been consolidated as that problem in Spain, but if I ask you one thing, a consensus, one, set a date for the elections and let's go to the polls. Put the ballot boxes on, Mr. Sánchez, and don't be afraid of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] With regard to Catalonia, Mr Sánchez, applying the Constitution is political. Another thing is the judges, for this is the criminal route, which some have allegedly violated the Criminal Code and that is why they have this situation. I am concerned that some groups in this House assume that Spain is a dictatorship. The Lords of Podemos have said that Spain is a dictatorship, they have said that there are political prisoners. Mr Iglesias, can you really insult this House and the Spanish people by saying that it is a dictatorship? Because saying that there are political prisoners is as much as saying that this country is a dictatorship. I tell you one thing, this democracy is imperfect, it's improveable, but don't be mistaken, dictatorships are others that you know very well, but this is a democracy. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, I ask you here - and we are voting for it next week in this House, the national assembly of a country can give mandates to the government - to make the requirement of Article 155, to ask Mr Torra to apply, guarantee and comply with the Constitution. This article is designed - indeed copied from a federal constitution - precisely so that when a ruler wants to do the opposite of what the Constitution says, the national government implements the Constitution. Mr Sánchez, if you do not apply 155, you are telling us as much as Mr Torra is the guarantor of the Constitution in Catalonia. Who today believes that Mr. Torra is the guarantor of our rights and freedoms? Who today believes that the one who encourages violence is the one who will defend our security? Who today thinks Torra is going to instruct the Mossos d'Esquadra to protect Catalan citizens? Does anyone believe you apart from you? No one believes it, Mr. Sanchez. And even if you go with it not to be supported by the separatists' budgets, if you go with it to call elections, I ask you, instead of thinking about you, you and you, to think a little bit about Spain. At the moment it is better to go to the polls and not have those partners than to subject Spain to this situation. Don't put Spain at the feet of those who want to liquidate this country anymore. Therefore, apply 155 and you will have our support. If you accept that, today, tomorrow or whenever you want we sit down the parliamentary groups and design that article, time, term, competence, seriously and rigorously because that is what a government had to do. You commit an irresponsibility... [[The Lord]] Yes, yes, you laugh, but the Catalans don't give a damn about grace. [[Applauds]] You commit a serious irresponsibility in not applying the Constitution. I'll tell you one thing, I'll give you the reason for something, it's not just something you've done, it's true it's already happened. On 17 May this year I met Mr Rajoy, then President of the People's Party and Government, and asked Mr Rajoy to extend Article 155. You know what the president of the People's Party told me? That no, that they had spoken to the Socialist Party and that article 155 had to be lifted. Honestly, Mr. Married, I think what you did was a historic mistake because you didn't have to lift it up. By the way, I didn't see you raise your hand saying you disagreed. I think your whole party, and you're on the steering committee, in the leadership of the party... [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah. Hey, I'm not blaming you, I'm saying facts. On May 17, 2018, I met with President Rajoy and asked him to extend Article 155, and Mr Rajoy and the People's Party told me no and the Socialist Party the same. I wish you'd been right! I wish Torra had been a constitutionalist! I wish it hadn't happened! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u25	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u26	Thank you, President. The reality is that that was to come and those of us who know Catalonia, those who have won the elections to nationalism in Catalonia and those who are from Catalonia know and know that Mr. Torra was going that way. Therefore, at least admit the mistakes, because to give us the hand it is important not to be wrong on the way. It's not the way to look away, it's not the way to lift 155 and it's not the way to talk about inflammation as if the inflammation caused it, I don't know... a strange thing; no, the inflammation is caused by lords who call us mad beasts and who are presiding over an autonomous community of Spain. Therefore, I ask the PP and the PSOE that after forty years, please rectify and assume that nationalism cannot govern a country, which must be won in the ballot box. Really, you can; you can win them in the ballot boxes, we know that. [[Applauds]] So, what's happened since that May 17th? That Mr Sánchez, at any price, with the support of Esquerra Republicana, PDECAT, Bildu, of everyone who went through there and Podemos, said: I am not going to win an election, but maybe this way I am president for a while. And that's what Mr. Sanchez did. He also lied - as he usually does lately - when he said he was going to call elections as soon as possible. I don't know what it means to you 'as soon as possible', Mr Sánchez, but, in general, people think it's as soon as possible and you've been settled, occupying, entangled in the Moncloa for not calling elections. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, applying the Constitution, you will have our support. But it's not worth looking somewhere else. You're gonna show up and disappear from Catalonia; you're gonna go one day and you're gonna come back, but do you know what's going on? That the day to day in Catalonia is much harder, because do you know what it is, and I say it to you firsthand, as a citizen of Catalonia and as people who are suffering this situation, in a democratic country of the European Union, asking you in the mornings whether the AP-7 is cut? Do you know what it's like to wonder if they've occupied the AVE station in Girona today? Do you know what it is to worry - officials - about whether they are going to attack the Government Delegation today? Do you know what it's like to be a judge and wonder if they're gonna paint my door today? Do you know what it's like to be a prosecutor and wonder if I'm gonna get hit by the wheels? Mr. Sánchez, get off the plane and step on Catalonia, but step on the real Catalonia, not the Catalonia bubble. That is what the Catalan constitutionalists are suffering and I want a President of the Government to protect us. The main task of a nation's president is to protect all its citizens in every corner of that country and you are not protecting Catalans because it goes hand in hand with those who want to liquidate Spain. [[Applauds]] And what have you done along the way? He had done quite the opposite of what had to be done in that regard; he had purged a State lawyer for fulfilling his role. You have said in this rostrum that there is no rebellion. Are you a judge too? You're a judge, a doctor, a president and a secretary general. That's it! [[Applauds]] I ask you, Mr. Sánchez, to take the sails out of justice. And so do you, Mr. Married. You take the boats out of justice, stop mangonizing by removing and putting judges, stop moving the Second Room and put wasaps on who controls the Second Room, please, because that does harm to democracy at a very delicate time. When we most need the strength of justice, you divide yourselves as chrome to the judges of this country, and that is bad for Spain and that is good for the separatists; so I, as I want good for Spain, do not participate in that distribution. And I ask you, Mr. Sánchez, not to press the state attorneys as you have done, not to change writings, not to do what you have done, Mr. Sánchez. You have purged a state attorney for carrying out his duties. You are not a lawyer for the PSOE, you are a lawyer for Spain, for the State, and you confuse the State with your interest. And you promised pardons. Mrs Cunillera, who is the delegate of the Government you have appointed in Catalonia, says that if there is a conviction, pardon must be given to those who have given a coup d'état. Imagine someone coming up here to the rostrum - in his day - and saying, "We should pardon Tejero." Because we're good for seats that support who. Do you know what Calvo Sotelo did? To resort to the sentence to harden it because it did not seem enough, and you are promising them pardon, charging yourself with the work of justice, charging yourself with the work of prosecutors. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, as for his plan for Catalonia, or that of Mr Iceta, which is the same - the PSC has taken over the Socialist Party, so it has gone to Andalusia; of course, today he sends more Iceta than Susana Díaz in the PSOE, that is obvious, what happens is that they are quite wrong - Mr Iceta says that we must pardon and Mrs Cunillera too. You say you have to give them the judges; not since you divide them among yourselves and they are independent, you say you have to do a justice council in Catalonia. But do you really believe that the recipe for a coup d'état is to give more powers to those who have given a coup d'état? Do you really believe that Catalonia does not have sufficient competence when it is one of the regions of Europe with the most competence? Who sold you that milonga, Mr. Sanchez? Iceta? Who? Indeed, get away from those who do not stop losing seats in Catalonia, get away from them because they are wrong, Mr Sánchez, neither must we give more competence nor must we deny what we already have and must exercise the action of the Government; it has the High Inspectorate of the State, control what happens in schools, control what happens in the public media. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Sánchez, you are going in the wrong direction and the Spanish have given you a first warning at the polls. The solution is not to give more powers to those who are disloyal to the State, the solution is to apply them, to supervise them, to demand loyalty and to agree between constitutionalists. Mr Sánchez, you are always mistaken, you consider that the constitutionalists are now the adversaries and that Torra is the ally. Well, look, I'm telling you that you're wrong, and it's also irresponsible, because the consensus between constitutionalists shouldn't have been broken and you've broken them all, you've broken all the bridges, you've burned them, you've cut them off. You needed the support of the separatists and have reneged on the constitutionalist tradition of this country. Your voters, not so much, because 95,000 Andalusians have gone to Citizens, voted constitutionalism, but you and the leadership of your party are doing that. And I don't tell him, they tell him about his bench, they tell him about his group. Listen; listen a little to people from your unsuspecting party, not Citizens; people from your party. Aren't you going in the opposite direction, Mr. Sanchez? Won't it be a treachery to rule this country with whom you want to liquidate it? I think so. And I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Sanchez, this is not solved by letters. Mrs. Calvo, Torra is shaking with the letter in which you ask her if it is true that they cut the AP-7 the other day. [[Applauds]] After that letter there will be a total and absolute application of the Constitution by Torra, the Mossos d'Esquadra will defend the Constitution and Torra will swear the flag, because these letters are demolishing. Mrs Calvo and Mr Sánchez, request of the 155, stop with letters, request of article 155 to apply the Constitution. Because I tell you one thing, if you say you're going to send cops or civilian guards because the mossos don't act, isn't that a defeat for the rule of law? Isn't that a claudication and assuming that the state doesn't exist in Catalonia? Don't you think it's amazing that someone says: like the state, which is the Generalitat, doesn't make it state, I'm sending reinforcements from the police and the Civil Guard? Of course we will agree that the police and the Civil Guard work there, and in other places where you are agreeing to leave, as in Navarre, of course, but do not be confused, Mr Sánchez, what is needed is that the Constitution is applied and that the Government of the Generalitat does. [[applause]] The Generalitat is a state and it is the Generalitat that must apply, in this case, citizen security. So don't take shortcuts to go one day to Catalonia and then turn around, Catalans have to be there every day, guarantee their integrity, guarantee their safety, that people don't have to look in the mornings at what street is cut, what highway they've cut or what trains they've blocked. The image we saw the other day, gentlemen, is typical of Spain? Some gentlemen with stellates, some trees, cutting the main artery between Spain and France. Are you, as President of the Government, really going to do nothing? A letter? Look, it's the main artery of connection to Europe and it's being cut off by some gentlemen who don't respect anything, and the Mossos d'Esquadra said they didn't have instructions to act. Is there any further evidence that the Constitution is not being complied with? Apply it, Mr. Sánchez, it's political. 155 is freedom, 155 is equality, 155 is Constitution, 155 is democracy, 155 is security. So don't be so afraid to apply the Constitution - which, on the other hand, we have already done - that nothing happens. Who fears 155, Mr. Sanchez? Those who fear democracy, those who fear the Constitution, those who fear equality, are those who fear 155. But Catalans who comply with the law, how will they fear that someone will apply the law, how will they fear that someone will protect them? So, Mr Sánchez, you do not create the milongas that Mr Iceta or his separatist partners will tell you, in Catalonia people need to feel protected and that is what I ask you beyond our discrepancies. Finally, Mr Sánchez, Spain needs more than ever to unite and not divide, and you are a specialist in division. You look at the 20th century, you like the 20th century more than the 21st century, you like to divide between reds and blues and make sides than join the Spanish. But, Mr Sánchez, unfortunately for you this no longer goes from the left or the right, this goes from democracy; this no longer goes from the left or the right, it goes from the Constitution and from applying it; this no longer goes from the left or the right, it goes from Spain, Mr Sánchez, and that is what you have to worry about. They don't know, really. If you think that the debate that is taking place in the 21st century in Spain and in Europe is whether you are a Social Democrat, Liberal or Conservative, you are not getting it. Spain needs union, Mr Sánchez, not confrontation. Spain does not need sanitary bands or cordons to constitutionalist parties such as Citizens or the People's Party. [[Several Members: Vox!]] Therefore, Mr Sánchez, the Spain that is coming is going to look little like that of sanchismo. We have to rebuild what you have loaded. If one day the Spaniards give us that confidence, I promise to rebuild what Mr Sánchez has carried out, to rebuild the bridges, the consensus, the economy, the role in Europe. All that has to be reconstructed, because this gentleman, who has arrived in La Moncloa anyway, will leave many bridges broken. But let's not be mistaken, Spain is much more than Sánchez, Spain is much more than Torra, Spain - fortunately - is much more than sanchismo. Yeah, laugh, Mr. Sanchez, we'll tell you about it in the polls. Spain is a great country that is able even to overcome a president like you, no doubt. So let's go to the polls when you want - don't be afraid -, let's vote and win the best, but I assure you that the Spaniards want equality, want union, want diversity, but want to work together. I pledge to recompose the agreements that you have broken. I am committed to building bridges with the Socialist Party - or whatever remains of the Socialist Party - because there are many socialists who do believe that we should join with the constitutionalists, as they said yesterday in their group; others believe that we should criminalize them. But I know that there are people in the Socialist Party who do not agree with what you are doing. There are voters who have already abandoned him because they do not like him, they will find their refuge in the common house of constitutionalism of the 21st century, which is Citizens. This is your house. [[Applauds]] To finish, Mr. Sanchez, elections now. Listen to the citizens. Elections now. This has no way out. There are no budgets, no majorities and no legislature, but above all there is no government that can deal with this situation. Call the elections, put the ballot box and let a strong government come out, a government with all moral authority and be able to shake hands again among Spaniards; a government that applies the Constitution, that looks into the eyes of those who want to liquidate Spain and tells them clearly that they will never get it. We will defend our democracy; yes, our democracy. You confuse Spain with a dictatorship, but Spain is a great democracy and will defend itself democratically from people like you. If you want to liquidate our country, you will find millions of Spaniards who will not bend their heads and will defend this democracy. So, Mr. Sanchez, put the ballot boxes on. See you there and win the best, but above all win Spain at once. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u27	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in the face of your rhetoric in black and white, barren by threatening, superficial by gross according to the arguments and void for lack of proposals, accusing us of demagogues, populists and liars - which leads me to think that perhaps today you have already started the electoral campaign -, Esquerra will not lose your nerves. I will convey to you our responsible and inclusive position and there you with your responsibilities in the very short term or in the medium term. Ladies and gentlemen, a week ago the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution was commemorated in this Chamber and in Madrid a trial will begin against the Government of the Generalitat, which will represent the failure of the Constitution with regard to Catalonia, because it will be judged by a Bureau of the Parliament that was democratically elected and because the prosecutors will accuse of violent rebellion of social leaders and advisers appointed by President Puigdemont that the German justice considered that they had not committed the crimes against these people, making clear the German justice that they only exercised their freedom of expression and only starred in acts of parliamentary democracy. And to show the button of Mr. Pascual Sala, former President of the Supreme Court, former President of the Constitutional Court, who made it clear and diaphanous, that there had been no rebellion or sedition, the only violence was that of October 1st and was of a police nature, and in our view there was, moreover, an unconstitutional use of article 155. But the pride of the Spanish judges could not accept it, even though they did have to withdraw the European order of capture in order not to make the ridiculous anymore. Nevertheless, the prosecution - with your consent, Mr Sánchez - has maintained the charge of rebellion. You know why? In our opinion, to achieve two objectives. First, to keep the elected Catalan representatives in prison and exile and to prevent them from exercising the positions for which they were elected. And, secondly, with the aim of scaring Catalonia, it will not be - I was told once by a deputy of the People's Party, important, in the elevator - that the Catalans will someday get away with ours. Then, by extension, the whole of Catalan citizenship will be judged; that is, once again the monarchical democratic regime will judge the republican Catalonia. Mr Sánchez, this trial will pass into history as the judgment of shame, and you have no doubt that you will permanently separate Spain from a good part of the Catalan people. By the way, Catalan people, not supposed Catalan people, that you advertise - I think more out of ignorance than out of bad faith -. You should know that Catalonia has a thousand years of history, but more important than this is that the Catalan people are recognized as a source of the powers of the Generalitat in Article 2 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Then this trial will be a real disaster. In fact, if I may say so, it will be a new national disaster, saving the magnitudes, as was the Cuban disaster, as was the Annual Disaster, as there have been so many national disasters in the history of Spain. And of course it is not understood that this judgment is given in an advanced democratic society in the heart of Europe, unless we take account of corruption, Catalanophobia and the survival of Francoism. I say the survival of Francoism, but I could say fascism, which has lived latently, crouched, when not bleached and legitimized by the right, and which now appears re-emerged through Vox. Indeed, if it had been broken with Francoism, judges of the Constitutional Court would never have dared to change a statute that had previously been plebiscite by the people. In fact, if it had broken with Francoism, in the Kingdom of Spain there would be a real separation of powers and not a division of powers, and I refer to Mr Cosidó's wasaps or to the shame of the President of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Lesmes, acting in the service of the financial powers. Similarly, Mr Sánchez, the judgment of shame responds to the omnipresence of corruption, whose current paradigm is the 60 billion freed from financial institutions that will not be returned while hundreds of thousands of people see how they are evicted and at the same time contemplate how thousands and thousands of homes owned by the Sareb - from the bad bank - are sold to the vulture funds. All national disasters are framed in corruption. Allow me a little digression. It happened in Cuba. Read Ramón and Cajal's memoirs when he denounces the inoperation and corruption of the Spanish Army. And I also refer to the message - which I think is worth it - of a satrap king, Alfonso XIII, who sent a telegram to General Silvestre, before the Rif's military campaign, and said to him, "I smelled your balls! This same king sponsored a coup d'état in 1923, after a short time of this message, you know for what? To prevent this Parliament from approving the conclusions of Expedient Picasso, who demonstrated the corruption of the Spanish Army in Africa and the turbulent businesses of Alfonso XIII. What do I mean by that? I mean that corruption is at the basis of everything and is the DNA of the Bourbon Restoration of 1978 because it was born under the sign of impunity; corruption is present in the Head of State, in political parties fraudulently financed by mafia entrepreneurs, in the judiciary and in the central and autonomous administrations. In conclusion - and I finish this section of corruption, which must be borne in mind - all Spanish national disasters had and have the same motive: corruption and the need to hide it. And, of course, the judgment of shame is also explained as a product of Catalanophobia. Catalans became the inner enemy and Catalanophobia became the greatest sign of identity of Spanish patriotism, as demonstrated in the campaign of Andalusia, as we saw in those police and civil guards singing joyfully: to them, to them, to them, as demonstrated in the speech of Philip VI, as reflected even in much of the Spanish press. And this catalanophobia is also incardinated in the judiciary. Look, let's see what you think. The European Court of Human Rights has just condemned Turkey for violating the right to exercise the office of Kurdish deputy Demirtas, arrested in 2016 falsely accused of terrorist propaganda. Same as Judge Llarena, who imprisoned Jordi Turull the day after the first investiture session, that is, a few hours before he was elected as 131,000 years of history, Mr Sánchez - president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Then, Mr President, you should ask yourself why in 1978 more than 90% of Catalans voted yes to the Constitution and instead now, in November, according to official data, 64% of Catalans under 50 would vote no. Have you wondered why? I think there is an irrefutable explanation and, if you think it is not right, come up here and in the reply I will attend you perfectly. Look, in 1978 the Spanish Constitution was perceived by the Catalans as a starting point, as a beginning and the road to reconciliation between Catalonia and Spain, but then came the coup d'état of 1981 and, finally, with its contributions, has triumphed the reading done by Manuel Fraga of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. The evidence is in Mr. Aznar. Mr Aznar, who did not vote for the Constitution, is allowed the luxury of pontificating on who he is and who is not constitutionalist. In fact, you, with your message today, have shown me that you have bought the Fraguian reading of the Constitution, which has three feet. First foot, Spain is a nation of five hundred years. Second foot, Catalonia and all Catalan-speaking territories were voluntarily integrated into Spain. And, third foot, democracy must be subordinated to the unity of Spain. And all this will culminate in the judgment of shame. I would like to remind you, Mr Sánchez, that although you are part of the 155 triumvirate, despite the pain you inflict on us - it is true, we are suffering, I recognize it; seven hundred judicialized municipal offices and our Government, our representatives, in exile and in prison with what it means to them, to us and to their families; it is true, I recognize it, we are suffering as we would never have thought it could have happened - despite everything, you are president thanks to our support, and we did it for Republican consistency, because we had to throw the party with more judicial cases opened for corruption throughout Europe. [[Rumors]] And you also know that we have supported them in all social measures; certainly not many or very revolutionary. Do you know why we did it? I told you that on the day of the motion of censure debate. We did so with a clear objective: to create a scenario of dialogue and negotiation. And what have you done so far? They did not just agree to urge the prosecution to withdraw false charges that violated basic rights. Moreover, they tried to confuse citizens with false arguments, such as, for example, that this was not possible from the point of view of legality. I mean, active in repression and passive in solution. In short, accomplices of a state-led checkpoint that aims to increase Catalanophobia through the attribution to Catalonia of the crime of coup d'état, of coup d'état to democracy, of abducting institutions. They will never forgive the Mossos d'Esquadra on 1 October for not beating the citizens of Catalonia. This is not going to be forgiven. And, of course, what they want is to turn a civil and peaceful process into a public order problem. You know perfectly well that the Catalan way to independence, assuming that some day Catalans would like independence, the only way we have defended is the civic and peaceful way. By the way, I must say that when Mr Rajoy commanded the mossos during 155 he acted equally in front of the mobilizations of the CoR. But, look, the mobilizations there have been are not even a tenth of what the legitimate mobilizations of taxi drivers meant. And, of course, they want to drown the Generalitat of Catalonia economically, because there is a wet dream, a popular revolt under the Spanish monarchy flag against the institutions of self-government. This is the jaque of the Spanish right. Still, I must say that if fascism could not with Catalonia we will not succumb now. A society like Catalan does not succumb because it is as diverse and plural as it is rooted in democratic values. We're a country that doesn't care where you come from but what you're willing to build. We are a democratic and socially just society. No one can deny that Catalonia has always been involved in the conquest of social and democratic rights. In fact, the history of Catalonia shows that we have paid a high price to achieve these objectives. We didn't get any arguments out of the joke. I told Mr. Rajoy in 2016. If they reject the dialogue, if they opt for judicialization, there will again be political prisoners in the Spanish State. And we told him that our representatives would bear all the consequences, moral, physical and criminal. Today in prison, today in exile, today some of them on hunger strike; tomorrow we will fight for amnesty. And that is why I asked you what it makes sense, Mr Sánchez, to criticise a problem among Democrats. You know perfectly well that there is only democratic legitimacy if there is the consent of the citizenry; that the difference between the despotic and the democratic lies in the fact that the democratic does not impose by force; that violence, that repression, that the violation of rights never ends the desire for freedom; on the contrary, it strengthens them. We should therefore agree, Mr Sánchez, that no one has the right to separate Catalonia from Spain without the will of the Catalans, just as no one has the right to retain Catalonia in Spain without the will of the Catalans. How dare you demand dialogue from us? Where are the results of the dialogue with the PP? Where are your results with Citizens? Where are your results with your own party? And you claim to us, the Catalans, that we dialogue when you are not able to dialogue? Dialogue. Offer a proposal, but a proposal other than 155, sticks, repression and jail. You, in particular, present a proposal so that Catalan citizens can assess it; in the same way, we will present ours. And a little intellectual demeanor. The Catalans have always dialogued, we have always agreed, always; another thing is that we wonder what has served us. We agreed on a statute of autonomy; here it was laminated and the Constitutional Court dynamized it. We agreed in 2014, two thirds of the Parliament, to come here and ask for permission to make a referendum and they didn't even admit it to procedure. And with its lock, unfortunately, unfortunately and unfortunately - I would say three, four or five times - they will start us again at disobedience. Our proposal already knows it. Our proposal is as legitimate as yours. Moreover, in order to be clear, your proposal, Mr Sánchez, is as legitimate as ours, there must only be a condition that does not exclude anyone, that does not exclude Catalans from independence and that does not exclude Catalans who are not independence, because 50% of Catalans who are independence cannot be excluded and 50% of Catalans who are not independence cannot be excluded. Here's the consensus! Churchill said democracy was the worst form of government except for all the others. It seems to me that this would also be worth the referendum. A referendum doesn't break, it empowers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u29	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u30	Mr Sánchez, let's talk, let's negotiate how, when, its characteristics, but let's assume. Mr. Sanchez, do you know where I think the mental change that would be required is? In that we assume that the referendum is inevitable, that the referendum is inevitable. Then, let's talk about how, when and its characteristics. Don't forget that we live in democracy. Then what is the point of saying that Catalonia will never be independent? For Catalonia will be independent if the Catalans want it; by the way, it will not be independent if they do not want it. What is the point of Mr Rubalcaba - whom I respect - saying that Catalonia will never be independent? What do you mean, that there's a wild here, that if one day there's a majority of Catalans we won't be independent? Do you have a wild?, what wild is it?, is the wild of state violence? Mr. Rubalcaba can't think of this! Then why do you claim that Catalonia will never be independent? [[putting your hand in the inner pocket of the jacket]] Well it will be if the Catalans want it and - I repeat - it won't be if the Catalans don't want it. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I say this from responsibility - I try to be responsible - and with an inclusive will: the non-negotiation between Catalonia and Spain on the basis of the democratic principle, on the basis of respect for the Catalans who are independent and respect for the Catalans who are not, will cause thousands of citizens to suffer and will sharpen the contradictions of the monarchic regime, it will not be that one day the Third Republic will fall on their heads! And, Mr Sánchez, I believe - I say this with respect - that the non-negotiation will be your political grave. Its dilemma today is not the General Budgets of the State - by the way, I begin to suspect that it does not have much interest in approving them - its dilemma is what to do in Catalonia. There are only two options, and I conclude, Madam President, by dialogue and negotiation on the basis I have set out to you. A difficult dialogue? A lot. Leave? Also. Complex? Much more. This, difficult, complex and long, will always end up with an agreement that satisfies both sides. What's the other option? To follow the path of authoritarianism, to deteriorate Spanish and Catalan democracy, to engage us in disobedience, in peaceful resistance, and you to open the door to fascism. We have reached out to you and we hold our hand out despite what you have told us here today, but you have to choose, you have to choose between being a statesman, making decisions in order to make possible a dialogue and a frank negotiation in the terms expressed, or let yourself be dragged by the right, i.e., starring in history or being an extravagant in history. Mr. Sánchez, this is the last sentence, and since it is the last sentence I would like to tell you looking into your eyes: We are still in time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, President, ladies and gentlemen, no one can deny that this year has been moved, like a roller coaster: now up, straight down and back to the beginning. And like such a roller coaster, there are no lack of emotions and curves, especially many curves, with surprises to each elbow. Few will deny that the roller coaster is the biggest attraction you can find in a theme park. Whether you like it or not, you always run the risk of ending up there. For many it has a fatal attraction: riding on a soft roller coaster, provides adrenaline, emotions and, even if you imagine it, you never know what the fall behind the slope is like or whether the speed in the spinner curves will make you lose your hat and win a few reeds. There are many types of people who end up lining up on the roller coaster. There are those that go brave and put themselves in the first row of the first wagon, on many occasions to be able to face the rest that they are more leaders than anyone else, that the park is safe, that the roller coaster is theirs and that all those who do not point to the first row are loose, because, what gives more how fast you go, the wagons supposedly will never derail. And indeed, there is always the companion who ends up sitting in the front row and shouting 'we all want more' so that the rest do not doubt him. Of course, there are also those - and more and more - who climb to it even in the front row, but actually what they would like to ride in the crash cars. That's cool, they think. All day long, they were twirling around aimlessly; they were going to find out all the others, disjointed with the truncheons that were going to pull them from their vehicles. Then there are those who rode more or less at ease, but are aware that the amusement park is already quite old and has been little or nothing removed, to which no grace is made by the chirridos who have been listening on the roller coaster more and more often and who threaten structural ruin. And we're also those who didn't want to go to the amusement park and they pushed us into the roller coaster, because, hey!, the gang must stay together whether you like it or not, and if you don't like the roller coaster, then garlic and water, which makes us bigger and bigger than you. Inside, bitch! Don't you realize this is a lot of fun and we've decided it in a gang? If you don't have a good time, it's because you're a freak. That you're getting dizzy? Well, you can take it, because the legal pills with Biodramina jurisprudential is only for the use and benefit of those in the first row. What do you want to go down and do the same thing until you change teams? Well, you can't, insidiary, that you're a insidiary. It is now time to celebrate the fortieth anniversary of the Spanish Constitution, the first Constitution that unites the Spaniards, said Felipe VI last day 6. By insistence and repeated that it is something does not become truth. The head of State may hide his head, but the facts are clumsy and show that there is a Constitution that is questioned and not accepted from vast sectors of Basque and Catalan societies. The strong assertion of the king meant that he does not consider or worry about the non-integration into that consensus of those Basques and Catalans; also some other speech I have heard today in this House. There are five political parties whose representatives and representatives do not care at all; they appear to represent citizens whose wills are indispensible, no less than 6.5% of the population of the State, and not to mention all Spanish citizens from all parts of the State who reject the monarchy and show their absolute disaffection to the Constitution and the political system as conceived. Of course, continuing to insist on a single common national reality, as Philip VI did, will not bring a solution of constitutional stability. It would be better if they listened to a father of the Constitution who defended, and recently, to explore ways of co-decision and bilaterality based on mutual institutional loyalty and a pact that abandoned unilaterality and could well, if there was a will, find constitutional anchor. Others, like the Citizens Party, pretend, by changing the Electoral Law, that we are not even in Congress - why to see us?, with ignoring us the problems are over -, blaming us to the Basque or Catalan parties to mangonate, as if we did not represent anyone and we were borrowing, obviating that the so-called constitutionalist parties, forming an overwhelming majority in the House, are unable to agree on any subject. Worrying times these in which important political groups in this House are said to share ideas about the ones set out in Vox's programme; times when corruption has scandalized public opinion and in which, according to all indications, State resources are even used to remove evidence of office by hiding them from the courts; times of scandal in the judiciary, which operates with scandalous corporatism at dawn, service and design of power; times when the form of state, the monarchy, is being questioned as it had never happened before; times when relevant political leaders have come to call for an end to the Schengen Agreement; times when young political leaders in this House today deny appeasement and literally advocate for palo and repression. Although, as you know, I do not make my own the Spanish Constitution, I am going to tell you something in your favour: it is ambiguous enough to, starting from imaginative interpretations agreed, find solutions, but unfortunately, any potential that the Spanish Constitution may have has been despised, using an increasingly rigorous interpretation in favour of a centripetal, centralist opposition, in the name of a diffuse reason of state, never abandoned by the powers of the State and the functional cohort that constitutes them and that has become more blatant as the years have passed. Spain has an unknown situation in Western Europe: there are politicians in temporary detention more than a year ago and on hunger strike; popular representatives who have neither committed a crime nor stolen, have only tried to put ballot boxes, imprisoned only for their political action; political prisoners. They're doomed in advance, and I'm afraid nothing's going to change. There is a saying in Basque: the proud judge twists the law as he pleases. [[pronounces words in Basque, whose text, which is delivered to the Journal of Sessions, reads as follows: Barnea harro duen alkateak aztaparretan ditu legeak]] I hope the pride of being challenged in their beliefs and conceptions of the State does not impose itself on the objective observance of the events judged. I wish it would surprise me, because it would mean that there is still hope in a new opening time, but I don't believe it. The People's Party is no longer calling attention to the Government's alleged pressure on the State's Advocate, the same people who passed a message to each other no less than their Senate spokesman, in which they boasted of controlling the Second Chamber from behind and presiding over the 61st Chamber after a - literally - great play, in which they played - literally also - the future renewals of two thirds of the TC and hundreds of appointments to the judiciary vital to the People's Party. I do not know whether the Government has pressured the State Advocate, but what I do know is that the State Advocate must be at what is indicated to it by the Government, respecting, like any public official, the legal system. Or did the PP government not give any indication to that same State Advocate about the process? What a face you have to have. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I said it before and I support it again: I do not agree either with the previous qualification of rebellion or with the current qualification of sedition. The solution must come by trying to convince through reflection, moderation and generosity, never by force and coercion, the latter instruments that do not contribute at all to solving problems but to conquer them. We must eliminate words that I have heard in this House today, such as fighting or confronting enemies. In this sense, a call must be made to all, to all, to no one except. It is not reasonable for those from a minority to try to control the street and prevent any agreement from being imposed on democratically elected institutions. The democratic representation expressed in the institutions is the only legitimate one to speak on behalf of the people. In Euskadi we have known attempts to take the street by force by some, trying to stand up in a single voice and discredit the institutions, generating all possible chaos and 'the worse, the better'. I do not want that to happen to our Catalan friends, it would be a big mistake, nor is it reasonable to ignore that a very important part of the population wants more self-government, national recognition and decision-making power over their future, whatever it may be. Neither side can continue to deny and conceal the reality from the population: that this is a complex problem, without majorities, that can only be settled through political negotiation, with generosity, vision of the future and rejection of dogmatism. But who should take the first steps and show the way must be you, Mr. President, right? [[the president of the government makes negative gestures]] We're barely going then. Listen to me. Everyone has to take steps, but you, Mr President, have a special position and responsibility. What have you done to find a solution? He has made gestures, but in our opinion it is necessary to make concrete proposals, beyond an empty rhetoric and to demonstrate that good disposition, which I recognize him. Many times it has been answered with contempt, I also acknowledge it, giving no way that it could have been deepened, but it is necessary to make concrete proposals. It will then be when those intransigent positions of all or nothing on the other end can be questioned. Another Basque proverb : Better an egg in peace than a calf having quarreled. [[pronounces words in Basque, whose text, which is delivered to the Journal of Sessions, reads as follows: Hobe da pakearekin arraultzia, ez ez aharrarekin bilarrauzia]] Neither can sit and wait for things to happen. In your case, if you wish to adopt this last attitude, Mr President, you have recent examples to look at, but that will only contribute to the deterioration of politics and, ultimately, of human relations and the well-being of citizens. He's still in time. For all this it will need a broader parliamentary basis than it has, and that goes through consultation and dialogue. Consult with you before putting forward the measures you intend to take in this Parliament. We're witnessing a scenario that politically moves to weekly decree-law. It is not the best formula, because its abuse is eventually distorting the parliamentary system itself, but I must admit that others have already done so before you, and I also understand that there is not much room for it either, but what cannot be done is that, with the honourable exception, we will learn of intentions and contents at least a couple of days before their adoption in the Council of Ministers. He's committed to it, do it. On the other hand, if you allow me a well-intentioned, absolutely well-intentioned opinion, Mr President, you have to focus on proposing things that are feasible and simple in your process. To be honest, it is risky to propose a semantic reform of an article of the Constitution, which has no problem in being approved, by the way, but which is going to give rise to various amendments of a very different nature, on which no previous work has been done to seek consensus and which are going to generate a new confrontation. The same is true of the omnibus proposals that you may intend to make. The simpler something is, the easier it will be to process it, without previous probe balloons, but taunting it discreetly with the forces that can support it. Compliance with agreements is always an asset, as is the development of the law and a good political climate. That is why some transfers to Euskadi have taken place is a positive asset, but you must continue. It could not have been so costly to carry out a rail transfer ordered by a ruling of the Constitutional Court. Nor can it be that the administrative mechanisms hinder and slow down more than is understandablely necessary the agreements that you have undertaken to carry out from this very rostrum. Mr President, I will then ask the Minister for Finance, for example, why we have not yet been able to transfer the land from the former central office in Lemoniz to the Basque institutions. There are projects that are waiting to be developed. Why are some items and projects relating to Euskadi not being implemented that are already included in the budgets, notably in the area of Development? When are we finally going to have a transfer schedule? On the other hand, Mr President, it would be good if some ministers did not warm up the environment by boasting that powers which are clearly part of an organic law, such as the statute of autonomy, are not in any case to be transferred. You have stated that you want to present the budgets. All right, it is your duty and your right, it will not be we who will put obstacles that cannot be met to prevent them from coming forward, but in order to reach a concrete agreement it is necessary that you have previously obtained the same disposition from other groups in order to add a sufficient majority. It makes no sense for my group to enter into a budgetary agreement if there is not a minimum chance that it can move forward. If these circumstances occur, we will try to reach an agreement, with our greatest will, with the Basque agenda always ahead of us. For our part, we call on the groups of the House to reflect, far from dogmatisms, on the current situation and the future scenario of whether or not the budgets are approved for everyone. A short look at the future can have consequences. I said on one occasion that the adrenaline of the epic is usually ephemeral, and today I reaffirm myself. In short, if the legislature has a future, it must never be formed seeking to form a front but a positive bloc, with proposals, big or small agreements, coexistence or budgets, that allow everyone to live and advance away from confrontation and temptations of imposition. Only this path can bring us a panorama with more light and optimism in the future rather than the clouds of confrontation that others would like. As for the other big issue we are dealing with today, the Brexit, we can say that we are still waiting. The British dilemma is not small and we do not know - now a little more - whether or not it will end up in a political crisis, which seems to be so. If Mrs May has decided to delay the vote in the Commons, it was because she was negotiating a renegotiation on the part of the agreements. He does not seem to have an opposition in favour of it. Consider, I imagine, that as Mr Juncker or Mr Tusk have said, there is no turning back or time for another partial negotiation. The fact is that the ball is already more on the British side than on the European side: to accept the terms knowing that the provisional terms are most likely to petrify over time, to back off taking advantage of the recent ruling of the European Court of Justice or to push forward and to condemn the senselessness of a wild Brexit in which all our economies and societies are going to suffer, but first and foremost the British. And the worrying thing is that this decision is to be made in a climate of high tension and, therefore, not conducive to the calm reflection in which the political leadership itself is at stake in the United Kingdom for the coming years. We can spend hours discussing the issue, but for Europe today, no matter how much goodwill it has to try to help reach a settlement, there is little less to wait for. From what is happening we can draw a series of conclusions. There's good news and bad news for everyone, for everyone. This one I want to leave and I cannot leave the United Kingdom shows that today no one can remain outside Europe. The time of sovereign States has come to an end for the time being and to survive outside Europe is very difficult. It is also striking that the issue of the Norwegian border is one of the most important obstacles to the acceptance of the agreements. They would have wanted to turn that border into something closed, but the political-social reality makes it impossible. Europe is contributing to the reunification of peoples above the insurmountable borders of States that have done so much to divide them culturally. The idea of Europe is reinforced in this sense, but Europe, if it wants to serve its citizens, also has to face within it the existence of national realities within and above the borders of the States; nations committed to this European project - Scotland, Flanders, Catalonia and Euskadi - are knocking at the door. It is a reality that will have to be accommodated and voiced in new frameworks that had not been foreseen so far. Two words with regard to Gibraltar. You made a pompous statement stating that you had managed to make it explicit in the texts on the Brexit that Spain has to give its assent to the agreements that Europe adopts in the future concerning Gibraltar. He did so by taking out so much chest that he forced the Prime Minister to answer to him in the Commons, thanking the Minister President Picardo for his great work in the negotiation, which he was very satisfied with, and affirming that nothing will be done without the consent of the United Kingdom and Gibraltar. All right, Mr President, you have changed the text, but does anyone think that Europe was going to take a decision on Gibraltar that was not supported by Spain? Has something like this ever happened? Of course not; it goes of its own knowing how Europe works. In any case, Mr President, if the official Spanish position continues to be that Gibraltar is still a colony today, it is high time that they were consistent in the sense that, as far as Gibraltar is concerned, according to the United Nations, there must be a permanent dialogue with the inhabitants of the territory and their will must be heard. It is time for them to accept that Gibraltarians have a voice of their own and that no agreement can be imposed on them, via London or Brussels. It's already happened to Spain in Western Sahara. I was talking to him at the beginning of my speech on the roller coaster into which Spanish politics has become and, seeing the avatars of Brexit, I think that a different one can be said about European politics. Speaking of Russians, Mr. President, let me ask you a question to clarify. In these times when both the European Union and the allies, the United States and Canada, are accusing Russia of instigating fake news and leading a real computer war, how can Spain unilaterally sign a cybersecurity agreement with Russia? What's the head of this thing? Do we disagree with our allies in the middle of diplomacy? Whose idea was this? Mr. Borrell - the one to kill the four Indians - from Moncloa, Defense? What exactly is the unilateral agreement with the Russians on cybersecurity? You can explain that to us now. These are not easy times and are not times for pusylanims or for those who are willing to bend their necks in the face of pressure exerted by half-truths, false news and demagoguery. People deserve political representatives who do not lie, who are willing to make agreements rather than devote themselves to the easy cry, who govern and make decisions, who defend the value of institutions and, above all, who defend liberal democracy as it has been built throughout the twentieth century in Western Europe against totalitarianism and injustices: respect for popular decision, the search for a pact, equality of human beings and the defence of minorities and the most vulnerable. On these premises the future must be sustained; without them, unfortunately, very dark times await us. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u33	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Campuzano i Canades.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u34	Madam President. Mr President, Mr Sánchez, your speech could have been the speech of Susana Díaz, it could have been the speech of Rodriguez Ibarra, of Joaquín Leguina, of the oldest and most conservative part of the Socialist Party. [[applause]] If you want to compete with the right in Spanish nationalism, in confrontation with the democratic cause of Catalonia, you will be wrong. They will simply get the political hegemony in Spain consolidated in the field of the right. Moreover, with his speech today he has given the first triumph to Vox, he has managed to turn his political orientation towards the conflict in Catalonia. What a huge mistake this morning, Mr. Sanchez. And you're gonna pay it, you're gonna pay it. Mr Sánchez, the motion of censure was possible because in his speech he recognized the fundamental reasons behind the conflict in Catalonia, which were of recognition and justice. On the other hand, in his speech today he has taken the idea that those more than two million citizens who defend independence, that those almost three million Catalans who defend the referendum are deceived, are fools, are manipulated. Mr President of the Government, the first democratic requirement to face a conflict is to recognize the legitimacy of the reason of your political adversary, not to deny that legitimacy. You know - and your colleagues in the Socialist Party of Catalonia know this - that in the roots of the political conflict in Catalonia, fiscal issues, state investments, ill-treatment of Catalan society clearly justify why an immense majority of Catalan society has come to the conclusion that we must decide our political future through a referendum and why a very considerable part, about 50%, understands that there is no solution in Spain and that the answer in terms of justice and recognition goes through independence. That is the fundamental question to which you must answer and not deny your legitimacy or your existence. Moreover, Mr President of the Government, the experience of Mr Rajoy's Executive is very clear: Spain cannot be ruled by ignoring Catalonia's demands, nor can Spain be ruled against Catalonia. Whoever rules Spain in that way is bound to lose. Moreover, Mr President of the Government, there will be no political, economic and social stability in Spain without addressing the fundamental question of Catalonia. Have courage, have courage, have the political intelligence to channel the demands of Catalan society through the legal and democratic channels. 155 and the 155 threat are the expression of Spain's failure in political terms. From this rostrum some of us have stated a few years ago that the Catalan question was always the question of democracy in Spain and indeed that is what has happened. The cost that Spain has paid to defend its unity is the cost of the degradation of the rule of law, the degradation of the democratic system, the degradation of fundamental freedoms and rights, the unjust prisons, the invention of crimes that do not exist and that have led to one of the elements that should cause amazement in this House today, and is that there have been political prisoners on hunger strike in front of a Constitutional Court that takes more than a year to resolve resources that affect fundamental rights and that prevent the defence of those deputies elected by the citizens from being able to exercise their responsibilities before the Catalan Chamber. That should cause amazement in this House and not cause it. We are not going to normalize what are manifestly unfair situations and we are going to remind you that the price you are paying to defend the unity of Spain is to degrade the democratic system. Mr President, the Catalan sovereignist movement, and it is archimegically demonstrated, is peaceful, civic, democratic and Europeanist. It has been, and you know it, because if you don't know it, you don't know Catalonia at all. [[Applauds]] The millions of citizens who have expressed themselves in this country have done so, the civic attitude of the vast majority of the people of the sovereignist movement, convinced, moreover, Mr Sánchez, that Europe is our homeland of destination. We are concerned about Brexit because Europe is our homeland of destination. We aspire to be in that federal Europe we want to build. It doesn't demonize us. Mr Married and Mr Rivera, do not treat us as enemies, we are your political opponents, but we are not your political enemies. They must aspire to defeat us in the polls, not destroy us. [[Applauds]] Its position is authoritarian and links with the worst of the sociological Francoism of this country. Part of the difficulty in the political solution is that the right-wings in Spain are authoritarian right-wings still marked by Francoism and their fight for hegemony in the right-wing field is what has led Vox to be in institutions and that the cancer that has flooded Europe has arrived in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Catalonia governs and will continue to govern and perform its functions in Catalonia without any complexes, also in the area of citizen security. The social and economic situation in Catalonia, fortunately, is not that disaster that some of you paint. The coexistence works, Mr Sánchez - it is not a problem of coexistence, it is a problem of democracy - and it will continue to work that coexistence because, above and beyond the noise generated by each other, Catalan society has the will to build a shared project and the majority of Catalan society aspires to build that shared project through an agreed referendum, which is the great consensus that exists in Catalonia. We are a nation; we feel a nation; we want to decide our political future without limits; we are against judicial repression; we demand the freedom of political prisoners; we do not feel represented by this monarchy. These are the great consensuses that are built in Catalonia. How do you intend to respond to the Catalan question in political and democratic terms without taking into account those consensuses? Mr Sánchez, if I may have advice, return to the spirit of the motion of censure; in that spirit alone you will be able to rule. If he doesn't, he's going to hand over Spain's political hegemony to the right for many decades. It's your responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u35	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to start with a petition. Mr Sánchez, I would like you to defend, with the same spirit that you defended Gibraltar, Valencian agriculture, Mediterranean agriculture, oranges, which are going through a dramatic situation: prices on the ground, fruit hanging from the trees or already irresistibly on the ground, and European and Spanish markets saturated with South African orange in the midst of our campaign. Let's talk about Brexit. We should ask ourselves what caused more than half of British citizens to vote in favour of leaving the European Union, beyond the demagogic, irresponsible and incendiary speeches of some of their politicians. Obviously, this indicates a lack of confidence of these citizens with Europe. Could that happen here? If you ask the Valencian or Mediterranean farmers, the answer would be sharp: they have stopped trusting Europe and they have stopped trusting their governments. Europe turns its back on them with the approval of the Spanish Governments. We see it in the sharing of CAP funds and now with the South African trade treaty, which allows for the massive entry of oranges. That was done with the vote in favour of some patriotic Members of the People's Party and with some Socialist Party abstentions. That is why, Mr Sánchez, we urge you urgently to do so. [[Shows a poster where you read: Safeguard clause South Africa agreement now!]] We urge you, as our adviser asked yesterday, to ask the European Commission to apply the safeguard clause of Article 34 of the trade agreement with South Africa, for the serious injury to the domestic industry, one sector, the citrus fruit sector, and our agricultural market. I insist, defend Gibraltar, yes; defend the Valencian, Andalusian, Murcian and Tarragona oranges, too, so that the disaffection does not increase and that the simplistic demagogues do not find a gap. I also want to talk about Catalonia and I want to start by showing an eloquent graph, produced by the CIS when the director didn't put it on by the PSOE, when the director put it on by the PP. [[Show a chart]] This graph shows the citizens who feel independent in Catalonia. The curve begins to rise in 2011 and peaks in 2015, the People's Party government. How many citizens wanted independence in Catalonia in 2011 and how many wanted independence in 2015? I insist, the curve is ascending with the People's Party government. The People's Party was a real independence machine. Today Mr Casado has arrived with his two favorite batons: motion of unworthy censure and application of Article 155. Mr. Married, do you think it's a little bit of a departure from a party condemned for corruption and for handling justice and the police to cover up their own crimes? With regard to article 155, on 27 October 155 was applied, on 21 December there were elections and independence revalidated its absolute majority. Paraphrasing Monterroso, 'when 155 rose, the dinosaur was still there.' In Catalonia and Spain, monologues must end and dialogue must begin. There's no other way. The pyromaniacs need to shut up so the firemen can start talking. I'm done. Mr President, the world does not end in Catalonia. Catalonia is a very big problem, but there are others. The Valencians have many and depend on their Government, on the General Budgets of the State and on the reform of the financing system. We need to talk about our illegitimate debt, the infrastructure, our agriculture and our industry. Let's stop talking about elections. We did not make a motion of censure to talk about elections, as Mr Rivera and Mr Married want. We made it to make decisions that benefit people and improve their well-being. Present the budgets, negotiate with those with whom we want to negotiate to change the bad legacy of the PP and that everyone assumes their responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u37	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on. Mr Sánchez, you are mistaken if you believe that the solution to the desire for freedom of Basques or Catalans is solved with small nuances or with a change of mind, if in the background what comes to defend is the same: the unity of Spain above all. We do not fight on the right - whether the traditional, the liberal or the ultra - which clearly bet on democratic involution with the same defense of the 78's regime, denying the right that assists the nation without state to make our own decisions. In the face of the law that defends the interests of the economic elites to the detriment of the working class, the only formula is more democracy. While those from the left who claim to want an alternative continue to base this only on the defense of the two locks imposed by Francoism, the unity of Spain and capitalism, I understand that it will not be possible to articulate a left that puts a brake on the most reactionary right that wants to deepen in the retreat. Addressing the dangers arising from the deep crisis that the State is going through, which is what supports the reactionary right and not the Catalan process, requires a road map for democratization and this must take the recognition of the right to decide, the only way to open the locks of the regime of 78. That is the way and not the police burdens against the referendum on 1 October, the application of article 155 or the use of justice to try to drown the process, seeking with the persecution of the independence leaders a scare so that no one has the temptation to give the floor again to the citizenry. To break with the regime of the 78-successor of Francoism is therefore essential to give political space to the territorial issue and not calls for empty dialogues of real proposals. We regret to say that we do not see an alternative to the right as a democratic key in the state, one that bets on a profound change in the hand of nations without state. Rather, we see a weak government that follows the right in the closed defense of the unity of Spain, against democracy with capitals and that with a mere change in tone aims to make us believe that it is better a government of the PSOE than the arrival of the right. Make no mistake, Mr Sánchez, if in 1978 we do not accept a transition that was more of the same, we will not do so in 2018, when in Euskal Herria and Catalonia there is a clear social and political majority that defends their right to decide. We're not gonna do it out of fear of what's coming. Precisely, it is the risk of involution that makes it more necessary if we can take a step forward, because standing still in the defense of the present means in practice going back. Therefore, we will continue our efforts to achieve full sovereignty and, in the face of the challenge presented to the different nations without a State, we will seek strategies shared with Catalans and Galicians, as we aspire to build a free, sovereign, just and dignified Basque republic. Finally, I want to make a little mention of the Brexit. I think he has forgotten the most important thing and it is that it is the result of a democratic exercise of sovereignty in the United Kingdom. And with Gibraltar he has the same problem as with Basques and Catalans, who do not accept his decision. There was a referendum in 2002, with a clear 88% turnout, 98% said they did not want to be Spanish. Or is that also a majority minority? They have to accept it, that is democracy and not the imposition, through the Constitution, of the unity of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u39	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Executive, members of the central government, Members of Parliament, very good morning. With what Sánchez we remain, Mr President, with the Sánchez who has made clear gestures these six months as President of the Executive to the parties that want an euskalexit or a catalunaexit? Or with the President who spoke today that the only way forward is through the Spanish Constitution and that he has given a real zasca today to Basque and Catalan nationalism? Or with the Sanchez of empty and inert words? Or the one you spoke to in internal code today to your party to those barons who are dissatisfied with you? What I can assure you is that the Navarro People's Union - it has never and never will, and much less today - is not going to make any delusional or histrionic speech like the one that is causing a polarization of civil society. We'll never do it, because we're a pact party. And I would like to remind you, Mr President, that - for 23 years practically uninterrupted in the Foral Government of Navarre - thanks to the agreements, the dialogue and logically solving the problems that may have existed between the Socialist Party of Navarre and the Union of the Navarro People, the truth is that we have achieved high levels of social welfare in our community. That is why I appeal to you to come here and do the same. With all due respect, Mr Sánchez, several speakers here have used the word hostage. You're hostage to three areas. First of all - I insist, with all due respect - he is hostage to his own personal ambition. I appeal to your political dignity - which you certainly have - to ethics, to principles, to the common good and to the values shared by the Spaniards to make the decisions that you must make within the framework that we have given ourselves in the Spanish Constitution. You too, Mr President, are hostage to marketing, to placing medals. You cannot come here to say that it is a great success of the negotiation of Spanish diplomacy in relation to Gibraltar with the UK Brexit, when really - Mr Borrel, here I am addressing you - what is clear from the Brexit is that the Brussels Declaration, which was what the United Kingdom demanded prior to Spain's entry into the common market, which today is the European Union, is being repealed. Therefore, if that had really been the legal and diplomatic start in the negotiation, it would have been very different from the agreement we had reached. Nor can he - with all due respect, Mr President - come here and put on the medal of the reform of the Spanish Constitution in relation to article 49, when this humble Member of Parliament has already requested in this House this reform of the Constitution so that persons with disabilities are well reflected in the Spanish Constitution and are not declared as physically or mentally diminished persons. That's what the vice president knows, and that's where I'm holding her hand. You're also hostage to the partners who put you in that blue chair. Therefore, once again on behalf of the Navarro People's Union, I extend my hand to you, Mr President, so that you can reach agreements with the political forces that we have devised a model of a democratic and social state, as set out in the Spanish Constitution. I hold his hand again and, if he wants, Union of the Navarro People can be his mediator. Now, Mr Sánchez, what I will ask you to do is to invest up to the last cent of the 2018 State General Budgets in the Navarra Foral Community, and if you are not prepared to reach that agreement, to that consensus with the constitutionalist forces, you, Mr President, will have to call immediately early general elections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u41	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the same group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Sanchez. During the debate on the motion of censure in which you were appointed President of the Government, I warned you on behalf of the Forum about the consequences of receiving and accepting in a complacent manner the votes of the representatives of the parties that promote secessionism, intend to break the unity of Spain, defy the public authorities and break our fully democratic legal and regulatory framework. Today, half a year later, in view of the succession of harmful events and punctuous declarations whose crazy drift was now more than predictable, you have been credited as an assistant to the obstinate zarandeo to which your close investiture subjects to the powers of the State and drags the image and prestige of our country around the world. At the same time they condition and burden political and economic activity, which is not an obstacle for their Government to openly and without caps to support the next General Budgets Act of the State, and let us understand, of the State they are trying to crush. You have violated your own commitment here, in this rostrum, to implement public accounts, and to compromise with those who disqualify the Spaniards and insult their institutions also violate the constitutional mandate of solidarity and territorial balance. He has already announced to us that he does not intend to address a new system of autonomous financing that replaces the one in force in 2009, then drawn up by another socialist government as the Catalan tripartite and whose results have only succeeded in encouraging insatiable independence. Mr Sánchez, with regard to the Brexit, your Government is not paying attention to some of the important consequences that Spain will have on the European horizon and that will be exacerbated by an exit from the United Kingdom that will inevitably lead to a decline in national GDP, which will further deepen the decline of Asturias, since we are by contrast the autonomous community whose GDP has grown less in these four decades of the Constitution. In addition to such post-brexit effects, Spain's move from a recipient country to a net contributor country will entail a cut in European donations, to be added to the impacts of the next multiannual financial framework, which will reduce significant resources for cohesion funds and the common agricultural policy. For some communities, the case of Asturias, our already accused national divergence will worsen because European aid will be cut which is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u43	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, in this Congress there are many Members who nostalgically recall the Republic, and there are also independent Republicans. Let me remind the nostalgics of something. Today eighty-four years and forty-five days ago Alejandro Lerroux addressed all the Spaniards on behalf of the Government of the Republic with these words: 'In Catalonia the President of the Generalitat, forgetting all the duties imposed on him by his office, his honour and his responsibility, has been allowed to proclaim the Catalan State. In view of this situation, the Government of the Republic has agreed to declare the state of war throughout the country.' This was, ladies and gentlemen, the reaction of a democratic government to the sovereignist challenge, martial law. That was, ladies and gentlemen, the response of a Republican government to the attempt to secession from Catalonia. Do not tell me that the Spanish State is defending itself today disproportionately and unjustly because it applied an article of the Constitution that all Spaniards approved and that the Catalan Members voted here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a nationalist of the 21st century. I believe in the great Europe of peoples, I believe in the abolition of borders as much as I believe in self-government. I defend maximum freedom for the citizens and maximum competences for the people of Spain, but all this can be done within the Constitution and within the European Union. No more States are needed, but less, ladies and gentlemen, more Government and less States. And if we want to reform the Constitution, we can do it here - here - but instead of bringing printers and T-shirts, we should start bringing neurons and common sense. Let's end the circus and start politics, Spain is a waste of money. The People's Party shouted in the sky because you, Mr Sánchez, came to the Presidency of the Government thanks to the votes of Bildu and the Catalan independenceists and now you accuse them of coming to the Presidency of the Board with the votes of Vox. Either they're both right and they're both entrepreneurial or none of them are right and they're all demagogues. That night, after millions of Andalusians had protested in the polls, the leader of the radical left of this country, Pablo Iglesias, called for anti-fascist mobilization. Against the decision of the polls, street protests. Against the vows, screams. Against the far right, the far left. Spain - you can say that old phrase -, among all killed her and she alone died. I'm done. I speak to you, to the great parties, to those who have the most responsibility. It's time to stop and meditate. It's, maybe, the last moment to put your foot in the brake. The work of the Transition is being loaded. They're liquidated Spanish democracy. They're leading us to chaos and discredit. His personal ambitions and partisan confrontations are weakening this country and its peoples. People don't deserve this. He really doesn't deserve it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u45	For the same group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, telegraphically, because, with such an appearance, it is difficult in two minutes. With regard to the Catalan question, I would like to say that I am pleased to hear that the essential thing is the problems of coexistence that can arise in that society. Of course, the first thing that will have to exist is the will to build and dialogue - it is not what is heard, of course, in some speeches - and the establishment of some basic responsibilities on the part of everyone. It is also true that there is a fundamental problem that is not going to be resolved under the current constitutional framework. Title VIII is clearly insufficient and a reform of the territorial model is what the Spanish Constitution requires. With that tool we would probably be in another situation. With regard to the European Union, there is no way that there is any worse news. The last is Mr Macron's ridicule for insisting on the wrong policies, the austerid policies. Looks like someone thought there was gonna be no reaction against them. Of course we need a regeneration of the European Union, a pact for a new European construction, because the problems of disaffection, of deep malaise of the citizens, in Europe and also of Spain, are at the root of the wrecking of the policies that have generated more injustice, loss of rights and serious deterioration of the living conditions of the population; and then we are surprised that certain kinds of phenomena arise here and there! That is why, Mr President, I want to say one thing to you: to work on a new foundation for a regeneration of the European Union, count on the support of New Canarias modestly. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u47	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the Brexit agreement, whose approval by the British Parliament is still in the air, which is part of a process that we all knew would be long, very difficult and very complex. [[The Lord]] Nevertheless, the Spanish Government made its position clear from the first minute, and it was that the agreement should guarantee the rights and freedoms of Spanish people in the United Kingdom and, above all, that it should be respectful of the interests of our country. The Government's objective is to ensure that Brexit has the least possible impact on Spanish citizens and businesses. As far as Gibraltar is concerned, the joint statement by the Council and the European Commission is a historic text that reinforces Spain's position in future negotiations and, above all, a binding text that constitutes a first-degree diplomatic victory for Spain, as all European bodies, except the Spanish right, and yesterday the European Commission itself have endorsed. This government has once again shown that the defence of the general interests of the country is perfectly compatible with the unequivocal Europeanism that has always led a progressive and internationalist party such as ours. This is evidence that these so-called patriots are facing hanging a very large flag on the balcony, and then going to tell Juncker that Spain is a disaster. These so-called patriots who call themselves Europeanists, yes, but who stand on the side of May and not the government, and who criticize the president's international agenda to return our country to where it deserves to be and where it disappeared in the seven years of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are committed to a Europe of more and more free citizens with more and more equal opportunities; to this Europe where we are all who form it today, united in our diversity, we have been working so far. This Monday we heard news that the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that the United Kingdom could unilaterally suspend the exit process at any time prior to 29 March 2019. From here we want to appeal to the responsibility of all political leaders and to constructive dialogue. As Minister Borrell recalls, our economic, social and human ties with the United Kingdom are very strong, and we want the most satisfactory result possible for all parties. I also announce to you that, whether the United Kingdom backs down or finally ends its voluntary exit from this area of rights and freedoms which is Europe, the Socialists will continue to work towards building a more democratic, more social and more supportive European Union. We will continue to work for more Europe, but above all for a better Europe; and the rest of the countries are waiting for us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are also celebrating this plenary session to talk about Catalonia and the territorial crisis that our State has been going through for almost a decade. The Socialist Party has devoted all its efforts to trying to rebuild what was broken. In the debate on the motion of censure - it was already recalled in this rostrum - our president acquired the political commitment to open a new stage in the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, where there was no lack of willingness to dialogue; seven years of institutional blockade in which the relations between the central and Catalan governments reached their maximum level of deterioration, due to the inaction of some and the intransigence of others, have been more than enough. Since our arrival in the government, we Socialists have made clear what two main tools would be on the table to channel and resolve this conflict: law and dialogue. And that's how we've moved from Rajoy's immobility to Sanchez's dialogue. And the dialogue is bearing fruit; the State-General's Bilateral Commission has met for the first time, after seven years, under the government of Pedro Sánchez, and we have re-dialogued with the Generalitat in other bilateral and multilateral forums. Important agreements have been reached in this area, Mr Campuzano, on fiscal and investment policy, as well as in the withdrawal of unconstitutionality resources from legislation presented in Parliament. Is this ignoring Catalonia's demands, Mr. Campuzano? Because you referred in your speech to precisely this; and in this there was agreement; we had progressed, we had reached consensus and agreements on fiscal and investment policy; and what we find this weekend is that the answer is the Slovenian road and the CoR taking the Catalan motorways. That's what we found. [[Applauds]] Further progress requires a desire for dialogue. We will not tire of putting dialogue into value. We will continue to defend the path of dialogue, because it is neither the shortest nor the easiest nor the most direct, but it is the only one that allows us to reach a solution. We will continue to defend the path of dialogue against those who demonize it, and also against those who do not understand that dialogue does not consist - as our colleague Miquel Iceta says - in giving reason everywhere to the other side, but in discussing different approaches and seeking common spaces where we can reach agreements; looking for what unites us, not what differentiates us. This is dialogue, and not an assignment or a failure as some believe; and this is dialogue and not a confrontation or provocation as others believe. The Socialists have always reached out to the Government of the Generalitat, and we do so again in this plenary. Here you will find us to dialogue, always within the Constitution, especially of what is good for the Catalans as a whole. In this sense, what we reiterate again today is that the Government of the Generalitat must work for and for all Catalans, independenceists and non-independenceists. And working for and for all Catalan citizens means working to solve their problems, which unfortunately do not differ so much from those of other Spanish citizens. We want to think that they are doing so, although unfortunately it is not what we saw this weekend in the President's speech or what we have seen in the social mobilizations of Catalonia over the last few weeks. The lewdness of the Government and the long-standing relevance of identity issues to the detriment of welfare and social rights materializes in the streets. There are thousands of health professionals demanding improvements in public hospitals, teachers demanding improvements in schools and institutes, firefighters demanding improvements in their working conditions. Listen to that Catalonia too, and not just those who want independence; listen to that Catalonia too. [[Applauds]] The dramatic thing is that there is no answer for that part of Catalonia that is mobilizing in the street asking for social improvements. Today we tell them the same thing we told the People's Party and the right for years: there are not enough flags to cover their social cuts; there are not. We have always been clear and consistent. We are a leftist party, constitutionalist, progressive, committed to social justice and solidarity, and because these are our values we know that the independence cause is not and will never be our cause. Radical independence has been fuelling a territorial and social conflict that, in our view, also hides important inequalities. The economic and origin gap that divides Catalan society is not arbitrary. According to data from the Generalitat Centre for Opinion Studies, in 2017 only 30% of Catalans with a monthly income of less than 1200 euros were in favour of independence, compared to 60% who rejected it. And the percentages are reversed if we look at the highest incomes: among Catalans who earn more than 4000 euros, the independenceists are 54% and the non-independenceists are less than 40%. This data does not make independence demands less legitimate, but it forces us to remind them that they have a responsibility to protect all Catalans, especially the most vulnerable. Socialists have been the creators of a welfare state based on interterritorial solidarity and promoters of a constitution that consolidates a strong social state and shields social rights. In order to defend the most vulnerable, we want to carry out budgets - as has already been said in this rostrum - that promote indefinite recruitment and penalise labour fraud, that provide rental aid so that many people can access decent housing, that they invest in research and development so that our young people do not have to leave and find the opportunities they deserve in this country, in their country. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it, listen to the social demands of the Catalans who owe their seats. You are blocking your own budgets in Catalonia and you are blocking social budgets in the whole of Spain that are also good for Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Do you know what's going on? Do you know what we're running into? When the forces that we consider ourselves progressive cannot respond to the citizens, when we do not meet their needs and defend their social rights with conviction, other forces emerge in the democratic margins offering mirages as solutions that return us to the darkest time in our history, so we must insist. We socialists are the greatest guarantors of social equality, and that is how we could define our patriotism, as a social patriotism, a patriotism that defends equality and social justice, and that competes not to hang the largest flag on the balcony, but to better defend the social rights of citizens. Against the far right - remember it - social patriotism is the only one that makes us stronger. [[Applauds]] This is something that should not be forgotten by Mr Rivera and Mr Casado, the Gemeliers of the Spanish right, who are not only copying the speech and the programme of the extreme right, but are even already wearing the same campaign clothes. Mr. Rivera copies the territorial agenda of the far right and is going to campaign for Andalusia talking about Catalonia, and charters a bus - of which he was criticizing Pablo Iglesias - to travel Madrid talking about Catalonia, and visits all the television sets in this country talking about Catalonia. I am sorry to say, Mr Rivera, that your party's electoral interests are not above the coexistence between Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I'm going to ask you three simple questions, Mr. Rivera. Do you feel closer to Macron or Le Pen? Because, look, you were trying to teach us a lesson about building Europe. Do you know who Europe was also built against? Against the fascists, against the authoritarianism with which you want to agree in Andalusia; against those. [[Applauds]] Do you really believe that someone who is dedicated to promoting territorial and therefore social confrontation can even aspire to lead a country whose plurality and diversity are enshrined in its Constitution? And third, can you tell me how the delegitimization of the motion of censure is compatible - by the way, it must be that there are articles of the Constitution that you do not like - and of the losers' pacts in the offices with which yesterday you and your candidate in Andalusia locked themselves in an office with the People's Party to ask that they govern the third force and not who won the elections, that I remind you that it was the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] By the way, your hypocrisy, Mr Rivera, is such that you keep talking about supposed hidden pacts with independenceists.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u49	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u50	The only one who has agreed with Catalan independence, to distribute the booty of TV3, to distribute Catalan television, was you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] By the way, what he's doing now with the People's Party in Andalusia, sharing the South Channel, I'm just saying. [[Applauds]] I remind you of something, Mr. Rivera, because you're very keen to remember here and manipulate the words of our spokesman in the Senate: Do you know who is the only person who has called you dogs? Mr Moreno Bonilla to Mr Marín, whom you now wish to make President of the Government in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Have a little pride. Then there is Mr Casado, who copies the social agenda of the extreme right and is going to campaign to Andalusia with a false and alarmist speech - I have told you many times, Mr Casado - on migration. [[Rumors]] After saying that there are fifty million Africans about to storm the fences and reach our country, I will also ask you a question: Do you feel closer to Merkel or Salvini? Because you look like Salvini more than Merkel. [[Applauds]] But, Mr Casado, when you say that those who come to Spain must respect our customs, we do not know what customs you refer to, because in this country what counts is the rule of law, not that of custom. Yes, we already know that the law says one thing and the customs of the People's Party say another: you just have to see how the Spanish prisons of members of the People's Party are, but what matters to us... [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u51	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u52	What matters to us is article 14 of the Constitution, which, insofar as it has not been read, establishes that the Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. However, if you want to talk about values and customs, I will also ask you if you respect our values and customs your friends of the far right, whom you are asking for support to govern in Andalusia, when they say that marriage is the union between a man and a woman thirteen years after the adoption of equal marriage in this Parliament, and after having been endorsed by the Constitution, and certainly also by 90% of the Spanish population. Mr Casado, I ask you, and I have asked you repeatedly, to leave the follow-up that you are doing to the extreme right, because our society is plural, it is open, it is tolerant and it does not deserve you to stir up sexist, aporophobia, xenophobic and exclusionary discourses, because we all belong here. Be responsible and live up to an inclusive country to which you claim to defend, because, as a great socialist colleague, Pedro Zerolo, said, to those who were against equality: in his model of society I do not fit, but in mine it is up to you. That's the difference between the right and the left. [[Applauds]] The right-wings come here to give lessons about Catalonia. This was done by the president of a party, the People's Party, whose government had to face two illegal referendums and road traffic cuts by the CDRs in full force of article 155, and by former Minister Zoido as chief of police. And you know what the Socialist Party did? Be on the side of the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] That's state loyalty, Mr. Married, that's loyalty. And it is done by the president of another party, of Citizens, who has gone from not wanting to apply the 155 in September 2017 to request a permanent 155 and regardless of whether or not the conditions constitutionally provided for to apply it are given. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, are the agglutinating factor of independence in this country, you give the reason for its existence. [[Applauds]] We know that Spain is a diverse, open country, where coexistence and territorial cohesion are possible. That is why we again extend our hand to you, too, so that you can work alongside this Government and we can achieve the great agreements that this country needs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to make a responsible and state opposition with the same loyalty as the Socialist Party showed when it was in the opposition. Don't try to monopolize Spain's defense in the name of patriotism either, because as Azaña said: 'Patriotism is not a code of doctrine, patriotism is a disposition of the spirit that drives us, as those who fulfill a duty, to sacrifice ourselves for the sake of the common good; but no political problem has written its solution in the code of patriotism. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that nobody has the right to monopolize patriotism, and that nobody has the right, in a controversy, to say which solution is the best because it is the most patriotic; it is necessary that, in addition to patriotic, it is correct.' Only the course of time, ladies and gentlemen, will show whether it is a uniforming patriotism or a social patriotism where we all have the right solution. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Brexit and the process are the result of the flight forward of irresponsible political leaders at the expense of people's well-being and coexistence. They have fed on the same kind of arguments to sow uncertainty about the future of two prosperous societies, and are producing the same effects: uncertainty, poverty and social fragmentation. Brexit is a very difficult path, but the process is a dead end. For many laps they give, for many chimeras they count, in the end they will find nothing but legality, the statute and the Constitution. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party has a hundred and forty years of history, and all this time we have been the vertebrating political force of this country. Socialists know that politics is nothing more than ensuring coexistence and social peace, from democratic and constitutional values. We know that politics does not consist in generating conflicts, but is an instrument for ensuring progress, and that great consensus is achieved only by dialogue and contrasting ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you all to talk again about the real needs of people. I ask you, in short, that we all return to politics, where the socialists have always been and where they will continue to find us. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. I now give the floor to the President of the Government. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u54	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the speeches you have had during the morning. Mr. Married, there are already several times that we have been able to talk at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, and I have to tell you that it is not the first or the second, but I hope it is the last time. At least go to this plenary, go to this government and me not with the phantom style you have, which you use... [[Protests]] Yes, where you are finally turning parliamentarianism, Mr. Married, into a sort of summary of slogans without any meaning or meaning, and where in the end pride is breathed into many of the things you commented on. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u55	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u56	What I ask of you, Mr. Married, is a little humility. You said: what else has to happen in Catalonia to apply Article 155? You say it, I imagine it's not a rhetorical question. Good. What do you think of two referendums, on 9 December and 1 October; the adoption of the bankruptcy of laws unilaterally by secessionism in the Catalan Parliament or a unilateral declaration of independence? Mr Casado, a little humility; a little humility, because today we are no worse than at that time, we are much better in Catalonia and Spain thanks also to the policy that this government is doing. [[protests]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] I'd ask you one thing, and I know this is preaching in the desert, I know. When the right hand is in the Government: please, sense of state all, all behind the Government, all of you, please grab your shoulder, supporting the Government of Spain without having to criticize. Even when on October 1 we had to see that the then government put the National Police on ships in the port of Barcelona. Even if we have to withdraw the reprobation of the then Vice-President of the Government for State responsibility. Even listening to Mr Rajoy recriminate his parliamentary partner, Mr Rivera, who was using the crisis in Catalonia unfairly, and that instead the Socialist Party, the leader of the opposition and the Socialist parliamentary group were doing an exercise of responsibility to the state. I do not ask you to do more, but at least do the same as the Socialist Parliamentary Group did: support the Government of Spain, have a sense of state, understand that opposing is, of course, legitimately trying to wear down the action of the Government of Spain. [[applause]] If I understand that - by the way, it doesn't do well, Mr. Married, I tell you - but in any case I understand. [[Protests]] But what you can't do is weaken...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u58	... to the state, Mr. Married, as you are doing. Deep down when you constantly appeal to a perpetual 155, do you know what you're doing? You are recognizing your failure, because you do not have a political project for Catalonia or Spain; since you do not have a political project for Spain, you do not have it for Catalonia, Mr Casado. That is what is happening to you, the failure of your territorial discourse, the shipwreck of your speech and your national project. [[Applauds]] That is the point, Mr. Married. So, a little humility, Mr. Married. The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lastra, said earlier that Mr Casado, Mr Rivera and Mr Abascal actually have a ventriloquist, which is Mr Aznar. Yes, you say the same, with different shades, but you say the same. You with Aznar and Rajoy as leaders of the opposition used terrorism, used Catalonia to try to wear down the governments of that time. That is the big difference between you and us when we oppose and when we are in government. In the face of its attempt to manipulate violence, this Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party pushed forward the major anti-terrorism agreements. This parliamentary group and a government also chaired by the Socialist Party ended terrorism in the Basque Country, and this government, Mr Casado, of course what it is not going to do... [[a Member: No!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u60	... is to use the territorial aggravation and throw gasoline into the fire of the crisis of coexistence that exists in Catalonia. What we're going to do is pour water. You gasoline and we water, because what we want is to preserve coexistence in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole. [[Applauds]] You in the opposition: small tables against the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, appeal to the Constitutional Court. I've said it many other times. I have even heard leaders of the People's Party in Andalusia say: be careful, because with this status of autonomy in Andalusia, Andalusian boys and girls will be forced to learn Catalan in schools. Yes, yes, listen to the radio wedges of your party when you were just in opposition. Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, when we were in the opposition and you had the absolute majority, I was already growing and the Socialist Party was alerting, first with Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba and then with me as leader of the opposition, and we offered our support, with you the absolute majority in Congress and in the Senate, to make a constitutional reform that would pave the way for dialogue, understanding and agreement to resolve a territorial crisis such as that which is being lived in Catalonia. Even, ladies and gentlemen, we support some of the issues raised in the previous parliamentary term and we have always done so, Mr Casado - let me tell you what I say - from a fundamental principle that seems to me to be important. Logically, you can have the legitimacy that gives you to be in the Congress of Deputies, to have an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies or to have a majority in the Senate, but one thing is parliamentary legitimacy and another is social legitimacy, when those decisions are implemented. [[Rumors]] Why am I saying this? Because the most important thing when decisions are made about the stalemate that you and Mr Rivera point out - which in fact has no project of any kind for Spain or Catalonia - what you can never forget is proportionality, which is what legitimises any kind of action that the social and democratic rule of law can take. You, Mr. Married, in that honestly what you do is forget it. In any case I have told you on many other occasions, you persist in error, you are digging in the same hole that will not take you anywhere. Look, when you talk about Catalonia in the terms in which you do it, when you talk about migration in the terms in which you do it, I tell you, Mr Married - and I tell you with the respect that the People's Party and the People's Parliamentary Group you chair - that what you are doing is giving Mr Rivera votes and giving him votes Mr Abascal. The first test you had in Andalusia. [[Laughs.-Protests]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course, it is rather incoherent, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Casado lost some primaries, but he won the general secretariat or rather the presidency of the People's Party, but in order to try to avoid what he did not win the primaries, he presented a modification of the law of bases of local administrations so that he could govern the most voted list. [[Rumors.-Protests]] He calls me illegitimate president because I haven't won the election; well, did he call me? 2 and also illegitimate president. [[Coupler]] It doesn't matter, in fact this is the new way of doing politics and parliamentaryism of Mr Casado and the People's Party. [[Denials]] Yes, yes, yes; disqualification, insult, defamation, all so as to conceal their emptiness and lack of proposals to solve the great problems of this country. In any case, I continue, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen, you call me illegitimate president, president * - of course, you do not ask for any kind of apology - you say that I am not legitimate because I have not won the elections, but instead it is legitimate, Mr Casado, to be able to rule on the Andalusian Junta with the support of the ultra-right. [[Coupler]] [[Protests]] That's legitimate, Mr. Married. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Of course, that is legitimate; it is the consistency of the People's Party. When you are in opposition: let Spain sink that we are already coming to rescue you - Montoro dixit -; when you are in opposition: let it govern the most voted list; now, when there are options to govern, in this case in the Autonomous Government of Andalusia, with the support of the ultra-right, then it is worth anything, Mr Casado. That's the incoherence. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u61	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u62	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, one thing is a motion of censure and another thing is an investiture session. They're completely different things. From this rostrum I told the then President of the Government of Spain: if you resign, the motion of censure is over. He did not resign, you did not assume political responsibility, but this House did, because he was sick of not assuming the political responsibility of opening a period of political and moral regeneration that was needed in Spanish politics, of removing from the territory of corruption to politics, to which they had plunged there. [[applause]] Of course, that's the motion of censure. The motion of censure had only one appeal to the responsibility of each and every parliamentary group in this House. There were two parliamentary groups that missed that responsibility, yours - which I understand, because they were in the government - and the other one is the inexplicable one, Mr Rivera, who has always just been a crutch of the People's Parliamentary Group, as is going to happen also in Andalusia. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You, Mr. Rivera and Mr. Married, will have to tell us what you are negotiating in Andalusia. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Echaros]] Yeah, now I'm gonna talk about it, now I'm gonna talk about actually kicking us out. Mr. Rivera, you've hit the nail. Look, the other day Mr. Moreno Bonilla - that the truth is that he is quite transparent in his intentions - said that the only red line that the People's Party has, do you know what it is? It is not the Constitution, it is not the defence of equality between men and women, no, it is the presidency of the Andalusian Council. [[Rumors]] That was the only red line proposed by the People's Party. So, Mr. Married, my question is very simple, do you or do you not agree, as this ultra-right group says, that abortion has to come out of public health coverage? Do you or do you not agree that the Law on Gender Violence, according to this ultra-rightist group, is a law that unprotects men for the benefit of women, which on many occasions does it deceive about the ill-treatment they suffer? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u63	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u64	Do you or do you not agree that Franco or Francoism did not represent a dictatorship, as that ultra-rightist group says? For you to see, Mr. Married, I fight independence with arguments, I have always done so. [[Rumors]] What you have done is not to combat ultra-rightism with arguments, but to embrace the same arguments of ultra-rightism. [[Applauds]] I will also tell you, Mr. Casado, that you are talking about recentralisation, what a great hypocrisy Mr. Aznar's! Many of the competencies need to be re-centralised. But if he was the one who decentralized the 2 * Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[See the President's speech on page 65.]] public health to the autonomous communities! That is so, precisely without any economic resources for the autonomous communities to be able to manage them. In any case, Mr Casado, you who are pushing and leading the re-centralisation not only in the field of your party, but also in the field of the three right-wing, I would like to ask you: Have you agreed that with the autonomous presidents of your political party? Have you agreed with your autonomous presidents to re-centralize education and re-centralize health? Because, anyway, I don't know, but I'm talking to them too, and I don't think they're going along the line you're pointing out, Mr. Married. Therefore, we do, a project of moral, political regeneration, modernization of the economy and social cohesion. By the way, Mr. Married, don't lie. Besides being broke, don't lie. [[Rumors]] Don't lie. You say that your commitment was to revalue pensions for retirees, but the commitment of the then People's Party government for 2019 is 0.25 % for pensioners. [[Applauds]] That is the commitment of his Government. The commitment of this government is to revalue the pensions under the CPI next year in the General State Budgets and to compensate for the deviation of inflation as a result of the commitment you made to retirees of 1.6% in 2018. Mr. Iglesias, I appreciate the tone of your speech. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u65	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u66	I will tell you one thing because you are talking about the General Budgets of the State of 2019 and you are also talking about that we have to have the same position as the Macron government, but you are forgetting a rather important thing, and it is that here we have a parliamentary majority that is blocking the amendment of the Budget Stability Act to remove the veto, which is paradigmatic of what the use and instrumentalization of institutions such as the Senate by the People's Parliamentary Group means precisely to remove the voice, vote and decision-making power of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] The Stability Act has therefore not been amended. Unfortunately, the path of stability that we are going to bring to the Congress of Deputies will not count on the majority, because, logically, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group are not going to support it and, consequently, we will also have to adapt to the deficit target that is previously marked. Now, I'm going to be a little naive, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rivera, who says that he wants to help this government, and Mr Casado, who also says that he wants to help this government - sometimes I don't believe it because they say that we are going to reach an agreement, but we come to an agreement with the General Council of the Judiciary and I find out from the press that Mr Casado breaks it unilaterally; well, no matter what, I don't seem to trust a bit - if you want to help this government, let us give the autonomous communities EUR 6 billion more so that we can rebuild the welfare state. Do it. [[Applauds]] When you say you want to help the government, I believe it rather little, Mr Rivera and Mr Married. In any case, as Mr Rivera says, I too am holding hands with you to support the amendment of the Budget Stability Act and a new path of stability and spending for our country. Mrs Martín González said that the position of the Communes in Barcelona and Catalonia was the vote and, consequently, also the holding of a referendum. I do not want to answer you specifically, because then I will go into more detail on this issue with Mr Tardà. After what has been seen in the UK, I have to tell you that one of the claims, of the slogans using Farage and pro brexit in the UK was: take control again. They said: let's take control again. In some ways, independence also uses this same argument, but in another way in Catalonia. They tell us: we cannot pay the officials, the health care workers, all the public employees who are protesting in Catalonia, because they have not been returned the extraordinary pay - it is from the last autonomous communities that are not doing so - and the waiting lists in Catalan public health are over 100 days. What they come to say, what Mr Torra said the other day - Mr Tardà, I imagine you will agree with what Mr Torra said, because I certainly do not - is: the problem is that Spain comes to steal, again, those famous EUR 16 billion. [[Mrs. Martín González, Mrs. Lucia, makes negative gestures]] No, I'm not saying you say it, I'm saying they say it, they use that argument. They use the argument that I said before, in my first speech, always in Brexit and also in Catalonia, to hold a third party responsible. What did the Brexiteers say in the celebration of the referendum? Thanks to our departure from the European Union we will recover 350 million euros a week in order to be able to pay and build all the public hospitals that we have not been able to do as a result of our membership in the European Union. What does Catalonia's independence say? Kind of the same thing. What do I mean by that? For the Brexit and what is happening right now in the United Kingdom - which is the implosion of the British political system, the inability on the part of anyone to manage a dead end, in which he has been involved in British politics and, in particular, a conservative government that had David Cameron as Prime Minister - is not to regain control of the issues; on the contrary, what is happening in the United Kingdom is absolute miscontrol, disorientation and a massive mobilization of people who are on one side or another of what has to be the solution in the Brexit. With this I want to tell you that the referendum in Catalonia - then I will enter into this question in more detail -... I will tell you otherwise, although I have already told you on other occasions when I have intervened here. How many times has Catalan society voted since 2014? How many times? At least five. And when you do the X-ray, it's obvious, we already know what the result is. If in the end the only position that exists in the referendum that you are defending is to recognize the right to self-determination and, consequently, to recognize the ability of a part of our territory to disengage from the whole of Spain, what you are doing in the end is to pose a dichotomy, a binary question that is impossible to answer, especially for progressive people like you or me. Neither you nor I have to make us decide whether we are Spanish, Catalan or European. Why can't we be everything? Why not, instead of always having to vote on the same thing, i.e. independence or not independence, start voting on something that adds and transcends the blocks of independence, nationalism or independence? [[Applauds]] That's kind of the point, I think. As far as the Member of Parliament for the Sea is concerned, I have to say that the agreement on the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union will require the prior conclusion of the agreement on the fisheries sector. And with regard to the mackerel, to which you referred earlier, I was told by the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food that, once the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, we will follow very closely the allocation of quotas for this fishery in defence, logically, of the interests of the Spanish fisheries sector. Mr Garzón makes a reflection on me criticising that I have a more bureaucratic view than a political one of the European Union. I disagree, I regret to say that this is not the case, and I also believe, as far as my intervention is concerned, but also as far as my action in the European Councils - also in relation to what is to be celebrated in the next few days - that the Brexit or other symptoms that we are seeing, such as the territorial fragmentation or the emergence of ultra-nationalist forces contrary to European values, have to lead us to the 27 Member States to think that we have to make changes. It is clear that the United Kingdom has always had a very complex relationship with the European Union. Let us say that it is not the same thing that you want to leave the United Kingdom because of its historical conditions or that you want to leave Italy, Spain or Portugal, for putting three completely different examples to what the United Kingdom represents. We have always had a much more committed approach to European construction and the United Kingdom has always remained in a sort of complexity and equidistance that has somehow led to a time of crisis such as the one we have experienced over the past ten years to decide whether to leave. What do I mean by that? That we of course are telling European colleagues that Brexit is also an opportunity to integrate more and to solve many of the problems that the European Union has. I said in my speech that one of the fundamental aspects that we need for the next five years is a financial perspective that needs to be approved before the European elections. Imagine European elections in which the countries of the north tell us that they do not want to contribute any more to the Community budget and the countries of the south say that we want to respect the amount of contributions and investments through structural funds or cohesion policies or the CAP. That means that we have a political and not a resigned view of European construction. When we talk, for example, about the European unemployment fund, which is being defended by the Minister for Economic Affairs at Ecofin or which I am being defended within the European Council, is it or is it not a political vision of what European construction has to be? In my opinion, yes. When we talk about a common perspective on migration - precisely on Monday the Spanish Government was in Marrakech defending a global perspective and multilateralism in order to solve the tragedy of migration - is it or is it not an unconformist vision of European integration, when many of the Member States of the European Union are doing precisely to disassociate themselves from the Marrakech Agreement and from the multilateral migration policy being defended by the Spanish Government? Mr Garzón, I think we can agree that the Spanish Government has an unconformist and transformative view of what European construction represents. Mr. Rivera made a quite a proposal yesterday... well, as he is. 155 in exchange for elections. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs]] Yeah, yeah, you said it yesterday. If there is a 155, Mr Rivera, if you propose such an intervention, it would be logical to support the Government of Spain and not to call elections. In any case, you say that we are hostages and partners of not knowing how many parliamentary groups. And you when you agree with independence on TV3's advice, what are you doing? Defending constitutionalism? And we don't? [[Applauds]] I don't criticize that, he's the one who criticizes me. Therefore, you give me reason and not him. It's obvious. When you agree with independence is that you are defending constitutionalism and if we take matters forward with independence, it means that we are prisoners and hostages to independence. Man, Mr. Rivera, you're sinning the same thing Mr. Married's sinning. A little coherence and humility. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u68	He asks me: Do you know what it means to have to go with escorts? The Socialist Party of Catalonia has many mayors, councillors and councillors. We lived that whole stage and I was talking to all of them and I defended them. You don't have a single mayor in Catalonia. We do have them and we know perfectly well what the pressure to which independence has subjected them is. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera says that we must defend the non-nationalist part of Catalonia from the Spanish Government and I say that of course and that we do. But you, who are the first political force in Catalonia, what have you done? You've done absolutely nothing. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Winning]] The vote for Citizens is an absolutely useless and frustrating vote in Catalonia, Mr Rivera. They don't do anything. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera has already told us clearly before - you will not have listened to him, but I have listened to him, because from here we have the capacity - that his political project is to throw us out, that is to throw the Socialist Party out. It's not about throwing independence out. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, you have said that, Mr Rivera, I have listened to you from here; you want to throw out the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: In Andalusia]] Mr Rivera, if it is normal because you who want to cast out are not the Socialist Party but what we represent: a diverse Spain, proud of its territorial diversity, lover of equality, builder of the welfare state, defender of rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] What you want is to throw away what the Socialist Party represents when it is ruling, whether in Andalusia or in Spain. What I'm telling you, Mr. Rivera, is that the People's Party with Married is clear that it has been cast into the arms of a split of the People's Party, which is Vox. The great historical mistake that you are going to make is to throw yourself in the arms of that split of the People's Party and the far right. I'm telling you, besides, as an even advice... listen less... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u69	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u70	Yeah, look what I'm gonna tell you. In Sweden, the far right will have achieved around 18 or 19 % in the elections. The Socialist Party in Sweden obtained around 28 or 29%, was the first most voted force and there have been conservative European forces in Sweden. Now you are seeing who is the Prime Minister - who will logically be a prime minister of the Socialist Party - but the great lesson you have to learn in relation to Andalusia and also to apply it in the future - because we already see where you are going - is that the European right in Sweden and in many other places has put a firewall of non-understanding with the ultra-right. Do as the European right in Sweden, support the Socialist Party in Andalusia, support the first political force in Andalusia, do not cast yourselves into the arms of the far right. [[applause]] Therefore, there goes the humble advice I put to you, Mr Rivera: Listen less to your ambition and more to the European right, which is proud not to agree with the European right. [[Applauds]] The other day I asked him a little bit to know, to see if it is true what Mr Rivera says, that we only draw the royal decrees-laws in the plenary of Congress with the support of forces that you - moreover unjustly and irresponsibly - qualify as qualified. In these six months that we have been in government - I say this more than anything to let you know - the Spanish Government will have validated around fifteen royal decrees-laws. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Seventeen]] Seventeen? Perfect. Thank you, Mr Hernando, for the point. Do you know how many people have supported the Citizens' Parliamentary Group? According to Mr. Rivera's logic, none. Ten of seventeen. Three abstentions. To see if it will turn out, Mr Rivera, that in the end you will be supporting this government even if you do not realize it. [[Applauds]] I'll also tell you one thing, because you repeat a lot about elections, elections, elections... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u71	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u72	Mr Rivera, I do not know very well why you have so many reasons to be happy, but I will tell you one thing: when those elections arrive - which will come - the Spanish Socialist Workers Party will appeal to the mobilization of a sensible, moderate Spain that defends rights, freedoms and the European project. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral and Mr. Rivera Díaz, pointing to the benches behind them: With those, with those!]] After your shameful pact with the right in Andalusia, you will only be able to mobilize Spain to lapse, Spain to rancia, Spain that does not want the rights and freedoms of these forty years of democracy. [[Applauds]] Mr Tardà, democracy is not just about voting every four years, democracy is about building coexistence every day of every year. I cannot agree with you when you make such a dark reading of the work of judges and prosecutors in our country. I'm going to make a few points because I recognize one thing, Mr. Tardà, perhaps I didn't explain myself well. When I appealed to that supposed Catalan people and made some statements at the Ibero-American summit, I was referring to something else. For example, Mr. Torra did it the other day when he was talking about the Slovenian road. He said: the Catalan people want to choose the Slovenian way. Well, the Catalan people are not the people who embrace the independence theses in Catalonia; that's what I'm talking about. The Catalan people are not a single people, as the Spanish people are not a single people. The Catalan people, more than a people, are peoples with multiple identities. In that sense, I wanted to make that point, that nuance. You've done a whole hoax about the trial, likening it to corruption. Corruption for you, Mr Tardà, is bad, it is Spanish because there is no corruption in Catalonia. In Spain there is corruption, but in Catalonia there is no corruption. Look, in the European Union this is not the first or last time there will be tensions of territorial fragmentation. If one goes to France, one finds Corsica; if one goes to Italy, one finds the Veneto; if one goes to Germany, one finds Bavaria. In Bavaria, for example, there is a party that defends Bavaria's independence from Germany. In Italy there was a very important mobilization unprecedented, much greater than that which existed in Catalonia, where almost 60% of the society of Veneto, of that region of Italy, raised secession, independence. What happened? When the Constitutional Court and the High Court were appealed, these secessionist movements in Bavaria and Veneto complied with the High Court's ruling. What is the paradigmatic fact and what makes the independence movement in Catalonia, of course, very different from what is happening in other parts of Europe? That you did not comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, you did not heed the reports of the lawyers of the Parliament of Catalonia saying that you were not complying with the rulings and that you were violating the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. You violated the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, you violated the Spanish Constitution on September 6 and 7, 2017. Didn't you make any mistakes? Did you guys do everything right? Some self-criticism, Mr Tardà, would have to arise. By the way, I will tell you one thing, so that it is recorded: ladies and gentlemen, I defend the independence and good work of the judges and prosecutors in our country. We live in a social and democratic state of law. For an idea to be made, that judicial power to which you criticize, Mr Tardà, is the one who sentenced this party, which ruled until three days ago in Spain, to have been financed irregularly for decades as a result of the corruption that your party has. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mr Tardà, it is that you do not have a social majority, it is that there is no social majority in Catalonia, there is no social majority, if the Catalans are voting. How many times have you called the Catalans to the polls? If Catalans have voted by active and passive, by action or omission on many occasions. On 21 December, almost 80% of the census in Catalonia was voted on. You didn't get the social majority; yes, the parliamentary majority from the Electoral Law, but you didn't get the social majority. Therefore, you have to recognize that you are a majority minority within Catalan society. You said so yourself, Mr. Tardà. We do not have the social majority in Catalonia - you say - to defend independence. The difference you have about the PDECAT, or what is left of the PDECAT, is precisely that you are more pragmatic in that than what PDECAT can be right now, because you are recognizing that there is no social majority and that, therefore, issues such as unilaterality, issues such as the bankruptcy of statutory and constitutional legality, is not that they are already illegal, it is not that they are counterproductive from the point of view of the legal and criminal consequences that logically derive from it, but that they are not something that adds to the independence cause. The other day I listened to Mr Torra link the Slovenian track with the mandate of 1 October, with that 90% of Catalans who voted in favour of independence. I imagine that if in the Nou Camp all Barcelona partners are consulted on which team they want the league to win, I understand that 99% would say that Barcelona Club Football, right? What I want to say to you with this, Mr Tardà, is that on 1 October you voted 30% of the Catalan census; the rest did not vote. Every time there have been legal calls within the framework of the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia they have turned their backs, they have turned their backs on independence in Catalonia. Therefore, all I am saying to you is that we should put aside a referendum that speaks only of independence yes or no independence and talk about a formula that allows us to add 75 or 80% of Catalan society. That is self-government, that is the status of autonomy and that is the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] I would like to ask both Mr Campuzano and Mr Tardà something very simple: Are you willing or unwilling to give up the unilateral path? Tell us here whether or not you want to renounce the unilateral path. Because the unilateralism defended by Mr Torra, who defend many of the independence leaders, Mr Campuzano, is quite contrary to the will for dialogue. You come up here and tell me later, in the turn of reply whether or not you are willing to give up unilaterality, and then I will truly believe that Catalan independence that you can represent really wants to solve the problems in Catalonia and not conquer them. Mr Tardà tells me to open a dialogue. Mr. Campuzano tells me that too. And you are not going to open any dialogue with the other part of Catalan society? They're not opening it, Mr. Tardà. You made a table, to which you invited all political parties. It is true that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group was not and that the People's Parliamentary Group in Catalonia is marginal, and worse than it will be. But, in any case, you came to that table and Mr. Torra what he said was that he did not rule out unilaterality to resolve the crisis in Catalonia; and you did not come to any kind of agreement with the other political formations that we were there, the PSC and also the Commons. Therefore, Mr Tardà, what I say to you is that we, of course, are prepared to engage in dialogue, but you must represent those three fifths of Catalan society, which are precisely the three fifths that the Catalan Parliament needs to be able to reform its autonomous status. What you cannot put forward is that 51% of the majority in the Catalonian Parliament impose on the other 49% a thesis, which, moreover, from a social point of view, is not being endorsed every time Catalans have the opportunity to go to the polls. Therefore, if you and the PDECAT come to me with an offer, with a political proposal of 75% of Catalan society, I assure you that the Government of Spain will drive and help resolve the Catalan issue. But first do your duties, agree and recognize the other part of Catalan society. Otherwise, what you will do, Mr Tardà, will simply address the increasingly extreme part of Catalan society. We are reaching out to all the parliamentary forces to adopt budgets that I believe will be good for the whole of Catalan society. That is why we are proposing to hold a Council of Ministers on 21 December next with the adoption of an important measure for workers in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole, as is the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage. If you want to talk about how to recover the unemployment benefit for those over fifty-two years old, how to recover social security contributions from the non-professional caregivers of the Dependency System, how to reverse cuts in education, how to improve the financing of the National Dependency System - in Catalonia there are also many - the Government of Spain will be willing to talk to all of you, to each and every one of the parliamentary groups. Now, don't ask me to mix one thing with another. You criticize me by saying that justice is politicized, but you are asking me to approve budgets what I have to do is to politicize justice even more. Well, no. Justice by its path and we make politics. [[Applauds]] In fact, Mr Tardà, Mr Campuzano, I do not question the legitimacy of your parliamentary groups in defending independence. There are other parliamentary groups here that also defend independence, and I do not question that legitimacy. I have never called into question that you defend what you want, but always within the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. I believe it is also time, Mr Tardà, Mr Campuzano, for you to tell the truth; tell the truth to Catalan society and tell them that your movement is against history, that you do not have a social majority to support you, that is the isolation and poverty of Catalan society; and, of course, that what will entail will also be a social fracture, that is what we are living in Scotland and also in the United Kingdom as a result of the Brexit. You said to me: Be a statesman and support a referendum of self-determination in Catalonia. And I say to him: Look, there has been a single political leader in Europe who has supported independence, in this case from the United Kingdom through the European Union referendum, David Cameron, and I can assure you, Mr Tardà, Mr Campuzano, that as President of the Government I will never follow either the example or the path of Mr Cameron. [[Applauds]] And not because it is conservative, but because we are seeing the consequences of an irresponsible conduct and decision such as that made in this case by the former British Prime Minister, Mr Cameron. Mr Esteban, spokesman for the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, you speak of dialogue, of negotiation; I tell you that, of course, you can serve as an inspiration for many of the things that are happening in Catalonia; there, the Socialist Party is ruling with the Basque Nationalist Party. You are offering an alternative that transcends identity blocks. You are ruling with a part of Basque society that does not feel nationalist, and I think that is a symptom of prosperity, progress and what needs to be done in Catalonia as well. In Catalonia, if we continue with the dynamics of blocks, unfortunately, what is going to happen is that logically we will not find a solution. With regard to parliamentary dynamics, Mr. Esteban, as the Vice-President of the Government said, twenty-one laws have been passed; rather, eleven are in progress or approved, which will enter into force before the end of the year, and the other ten are already adopted. You tell me that there has to be prior information about the actual decree-laws; of course it does, because we obviously need the parliamentary support of the best groups in order to be able to carry them out. In that regard, I would like you to know that that is the intention of this Government, and if it has not been possible in some matters, I think it has more to do with inertia or dynamics than with the will we logically have to adopt those royal decrees. The timetable for transfers in the last bilateral Commission has begun to be drawn. You reproach me that in six months we have transferred some skills that have not been transferred for six years. Well, perhaps he would have liked it to be in less time, but, in the end, it is six months and not six years, and it is clear what the position of the Government of Spain is. With regard to your attitude and position with regard to the General Budgets of the State, I too thank you. Regardless of whether we can then enter into parliamentary negotiation, I believe that the important thing is that the entry of budgets into the House is not blocked, and that is what I am asking of all parliamentary forces in this Congress. And, of course, also on your last reflection on the need for no fronts and for us to have a positive attitude, that parliamentary majority that wants to bring forward issues essential for the day-to-day life of the citizenry, I want you to know that I also have my support and logically my complicity. Mr Campuzano, I have previously told Mr Tardà that I do not question the legitimacy of Catalan nationalism, I have never questioned it; I have never questioned the legitimacy of being able to defend independence within our constitutional system. He also referred to the Veneto; he also referred to Mr Tardà previously in relation to Bavaria, and I insist, the peculiarity of the Catalan fact is that you did not comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, when other independence movements in other parts of Europe are doing what you are doing to comply with those rulings. Therefore, what I am asking you to do is simply to respect legality; that if you want to change it, try to change it here too, but what you cannot do is to impose, through the accomplished facts, a unilateral vision and a vision, I insist, partial of Catalan society. I was reminded by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Borrell, when you spoke of the fact that there were no lies and that there was indeed some sort of fiscal expoliation on the part of the evil Spanish State with regard to the poor Catalan society - let me say sarcasm - that the former Economics Councillor, Mas-Colell himself, was saying at a conference in London Scholl of Economics that the financing system now means that 15% of the population representing Catalan society in the overall Spanish society receives 15% of the total public expenditure and investment. It contributes 18% of taxes and contributions and receives 18% in terms of GDP. You say that you believe in federal Europe, and I do not doubt your Europeanist spirit. I also believe that these are old debates which must be underlined and recovered in order to know where we are, Mr Campuzano. Mr Juncker - and so many other members and leaders of the European Union - said the following textually about the eventual independence of a particular territory of a Member State: If a territory of a Member State ceases to be a part of that State, because that territory becomes an independent State, the treaties cannot continue to apply to that part of the territory. - Point. And the new independent region becomes a third country as a result of its independence. In other words, do you know what you have said that Catalonia's independence would mean the immediate integration of Catalonia into the European Union when you see what is happening in the United Kingdom? Just as the Brexiteers said that, regardless of what happened, immediately after the United Kingdom left the European Union it was going to be integrated into a sort of economic relationship that little less than it was not going to impact on the day-to-day and on the real economy of the British. Therefore, I do not lie, Mr Campuzano, what I say and what I put black on white are the harmful consequences for Catalan society, and I insist that this Catalan society does not support in a majority way independence. It is not doing so in any of the regional elections. Even the first political force, as Mr Rivera recalled earlier, is a force that he proposes is to refocus many of the powers and question self-government in Catalonia. Therefore, you also have to make self-criticism and a serious and serene reflection on where you want to take your movement, to your society and in particular to the whole of Catalan society. Mr Baldoví talks to me first of all about the fruit sector. The Minister for Agriculture tells me that we are closely following the market situation with the European Union. Mr Baldoví has also proposed the use of aid for the processing of oranges into juice and for the organization of supply. And with regard to the agreement between the European Union and South Africa, I am reminded by the Minister for Agriculture - and I would like to inform you - that we are now net exporters, so I believe that there is an important way forward in this regard. I agree with you that in Catalonia monologues have to end; it is clear, and I believe that this problem can only be solved in Spain when monologues in Catalonia are overcome. In Catalonia, the nationalist side has to talk to the non-nationalist side, because unfortunately, what do we have now? We have a Mr Torra who wants everything but talking to the non-nationalist side and, unfortunately, we have an opposition leader who is no longer in office and who does not aspire to be complicit or to speak to the other part of Catalonia, which is now a nationalist. Therefore, I believe that this is the great drama that we are now living, in a party key, in an electoral key, with strong translations into the general electoral dynamics, more than the resolution of the crisis and the problem of coexistence that is logically lived in Catalonia. I therefore agree with you that what we have to do is open a dialogue and not monologues. I am very grateful that you are in favour of not blocking the entry of budgets into the Congress of Deputies, I think that is important. And with regard to the Brexit, I agree with you that we need to make a self-critical reading within the European Union on what are the reasons in its fair terms that have led an important part of the European Union, which in this case has British nationality, to want to leave this common project. I insist, I think, that it is also very important - because you have also spoken about the CAP indirectly and the territorial cohesion funds - that the multiannual financial framework be approved before the European elections, and that is what this government is defending. We know that time is running out, that it is going to be very difficult, but after what will happen today with the motion of censure to be made to the British Prime Minister, after having postponed the vote on the withdrawal agreement in the British Parliament because it was known that it was going to be lost, the reflection we have to make on the 27 Member States is not just to say - we have to say - that the withdrawal agreement is not going to be renegotiated, that the future political declaration between the United Kingdom and the European Union is not going to be revised, but logically we will have to make a self-critical review of our postulates and try to move forward on issues that are now being abandoned, such as, for example, the construction of a multiannual financial framework which will be important for many investments in very significant territories of our country. As for Bildu's spokesman, we disagree radically, and I say to a great extent what I said before. I believe that the problem in Catalonia, in the Basque Country, if you live it as such, Madam spokesman, has nothing to do with the lack of democracy but with a problem of coexistence. I refer here to Catalonia and not, logically, to the Basque Country. Mr Alli tells me about Gibraltar, article 49. You have proposed your constitutional reform and I do not intend to praise anything, but I also ask you to acknowledge that this government with eighty-four Members has tabled two constitutional reforms that have been debated at least in a long time - at least not in content - by all the parliamentary groups; in fact, Mr Rajoy's investiture agreement almost three years ago between the People's Parliamentary Group and Mr Rivera was, among other things, the amendment of the Constitution to limit or, if not, suspend or end the outbursts of Members. Things that give life, Mr.Alli: What's the problem? The problem is that Mr Rivera and Mr Casado are passing over to the opposition and they are already forgetting to end the outbursts and will vote against the constitutional reform proposed by this Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but I will still tell you that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government of Spain will present these two constitutional reforms which I believe are opening up a path of institutional regeneration from a formal and substantive point of view. As for Gibraltar, what do you want me to say? Here we are already in the debate of post-truth, which in the background are the usual bubbles. I say - I do not say this, as the German Foreign Minister says - that the resolutions annexed to the withdrawal agreement and to the future political declaration have legal validity and the opposition says no. What are we going to do to him! It is not that I get off the donkey and you get off the donkey, simply, ladies and gentlemen, that is what it is: you have that position, which I think is unfortunate, because on a question like that of Gibraltar we should all go hand in hand and not use this again, as Catalonia is used, to try to fuel the socialist government. Mrs Oramas talks about integration, sharing sovereignty and not fragmenting territorially. I completely agree with you; in other judgments I do not agree, but in this I absolutely agree. The spokesman for Foro Asturias tells me again that I am hostage, that I am the prisoner of what evils and independent parliamentary groups. Finally, what we are going to do to you; it is your appreciation, logically subjective, because it has nothing to do with reality, at least as I interpret it, but it is what it has to be a leader of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or, rather, of the Government of Spain and Secretary General of the Socialist Party, and you are a leader of a formation that, in the end, is nothing more than a fragmentation of the People's Party because, let us not be mistaken, Mr Cascos comes from where he comes from: he comes from the People's Alliance and the People's Party. With regard to Mr Quevedo, I agree that we must live together, dialogue and build, in which we must raise a shared responsibility. Mr Quevedo, in my speech I have made it clear: we have acted responsibly, with loyalty, with an unequivocal vocation to dialogue, in this case, with the Generalitat de Catalunya. We have activated the bilateral commissions that have been included in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia since its adoption, which did not meet since 2011, I think I recall, and I think it has precisely generated a dynamic of cooperation that I would logically like to be alien to the turbulence and the statements of the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia. That is the conviction, that is the will of the Government of Spain, and let us hope that it can continue in time, and that is the responsibility that we logically share as an institution and as a Government. Finally, I would like to thank, and very much, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group for her work, and on her behalf also all the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr Rivera has said this before, his aim is to throw us out, and therefore what we all have to do is calmly moderate, with conviction and determination, to be aware that we represent a Spain completely different from that of black and white which Mr Casado and Mr Rivera are putting forward. We raise a Spain of rights, of freedoms, proud of its territorial diversity and who loves equality between Spaniards above any other issue. That will be the battle we have to wage when the elections are called, and I am convinced, spokesman, that we will win it again. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u73	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u74	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, I will not tolerate you saying that this parliamentary group is taking advantage of terrorism. [[Protests]] How's the indecency to say it in front of Marimar Blanco? [[Applauds]] That comment is indecent, indecent. This parliamentary group has buried almost thirty of its own; its own, too. What I am telling you is that it is intolerable for you to say that the People's Party has taken advantage of terrorism. On the contrary, he has defeated him, and he has defeated him with the Party Law, with international funding, with full compliance with the sentences, he will defeat him with the permanent prison reviewable that we have approved in frank and proud solitude. We didn't meet with Otegi, like Mr Zapatero, and we didn't come here to say, as Otegi said about me last week, that less talk about Catalonia and more focus on Pablo Casado. [[the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality, Calvo Poyato: Aznar, yes]] He focused on our councillors and then killed them. That is what we have suffered in the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you come here to talk about dignity with a government with two resigned ministers, with four ministers with problems in their assets and with two other secretaries of state also with problems to which you give no answer. It speaks here of coherence when it has rectified immigration, budgetary policy, European policy, even with Gibraltar. You've already been given the morale from Cuba by: Gibraltar, Spanish. At good times, green sleeves. You are also talking here about what must be responsibility and moderation. But have you looked in the mirror? But do you realize who has supported you? What are you talking about moderation and extremism? You have been supported by the parties that want to charge themselves to Spain, the parties that appeal to a civil war, the parties that spit out their foreign minister without you defending him. [[applause]] Is there any greater indignity than putting up with spitting and insulting your minister and you say nothing? And he comes here to ask for moderation from the People's Party, which is simply saying that our agreements will be given within the Constitution. Everything falls within the Constitution. You were also saying in the Granada Declaration that a confederal model had to be adopted, but you have not implemented it. They therefore remain in the Constitution. [[The Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality, Calvo Poyato, delivers words that are not perceived]] The asymmetrical federal, Madam Vice President. [[Rumors]] It's not in the Constitution. Citizens were also said to have to suppress parliaments and the Senate, but it has not put it into practice, are still in the Constitution. There are also parties that now say that autonomy must be abolished. We've already said that, no way. But they haven't applied it. Those who have applied the challenge to the Constitution are those who keep him in the blue bank, those who pay him the rent of the Moncloa. [[applause]] At least recognize it. Have you heard what Mr. Tardà has said to you? Lord Tardà has come here and cried out: the king goes naked. He has escaped: You are there thanks to the motion of censure and our votes. And he said more: And you haven't even withdrawn what we asked you about the prosecution. Mr Campuzano has also said this, after Tardà asked for amnesty, he has already made clear the next step. No, if you lie, don't lie, at least. Mr. Campuzano has already told you: he will pay for it. That intervention - I do not know what intervention, Mr Campuzano - could not be more melifluous and more dissatisfied for those who defend the Constitution. So what lessons do you give of moderation if you depend on those who want to break Spain, on those who break the Constitution, on those who want to end public freedoms, on those who want to end citizen security, on those who want to end the equality of the Spaniards? But what lessons do you give? Have dignity, call elections; leave now, because you can't stand it anymore. You depend on Republican Left, the PDECAT; you depend on Podemos. Look, we can do it by asking the republic in Spain; that's out of the Constitution. It also asks the Catalan nation - some of its ministers too -; that is outside the Constitution. Therefore, moderation on the part of the Socialist Party; of you, none. You're still lying. By the way, you haven't talked about the State Attorney's Office, that was our request to appear. He hasn't said anything about why he stopped the head of the State Attorney's Office in the trial. But he comes to say about pensions and lies. The pension pact was in 2018 and 2019 and included this year's increase in widowhood, minimums and averages. And you know it. And if you don't know, we have a problem, because you preside over the government. [[Applauds]] You lie too when you're talking about recentralization. But what recentralization? That the People's Party say that its educational counter-reform is going to mean once again, as in the thirty years in which there was an educational law of the Socialist Party in Spain, failure and drop out of school? Is that refocusing? Is education not a state competition? Have you read Title VIII? It's a state-owned competition. The administration of this competence is transferred to self-governments such as health care, such as social policy, such as the administration of the Administration of Justice. Therefore, of course we want a national policy in the competences transferred in its administration; of course we propose a quality education, evaluated, with freedom, with bilingualism, with truncated subjects in Spain, with educational inspection. Of course. And we ask for a single health card, a single basic service portfolio, a national health system, a single social card and a single immigration policy. But how is it that you and Mrs. Lastra say here the other day that I do demagoguery with immigration when in the end your minister has had to comply with everything I said? Neither do you take off concertinas nor do you take off the hot returns - do you do it in warm?-. What figures do you say, Mrs. Lastra? Mr Tajani's figures: 50 million people in Africa. The figures from Mr Tajani, to whom Mr Sánchez has quoted now; the figures from the European Commission; the figures I also gave about the arrival of immigrants on the Andalusian coast are also from the European Union. But, as I say, Mr Sánchez said: you are a demagogue because you say that here they are not worth papers for everyone, but then you give your hand to immigrants in the port of Algeciras. Yeah, and then I didn't clean it up, like you did in a viral video when you reached out to an immigrant asking on the street. [[Applauds.-Protests]] What hypocrisy! Of course, an effective immigration policy and, at the same time, a solidarity policy and a Marshall plan in Africa are compatible, as we have been calling for. So, Mr Sánchez, less lessons of humility - you will be adorned with other virtues, but certainly not humility - and more responsibility. The most serious thing I have seen today is that it has extended its hand to the PDeCAT and the Republican Left calling for 75% of the support of the Catalan people and then they will negotiate bilaterally. That, in any serious country, would already be subject to immediate resignation. You are appealing to assembly; you are appealing that if the majority, manipulated by public television, by education, get more votes by appealing to the street, to the kale borroka, to the baptism of Catalonia you will tend a bilateral way. Mr Sánchez - I finish now - neither the unilateral nor the bilateral route, the constitutional route. He exercises his responsibility, puts order in Catalonia and, if not, summons elections, that we will put order. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u75	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea has the floor Mr Iglesias Turrión. Quiet, please. I beg your silence. Go ahead, Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casado, your speech has a certain parliamentary quality, you come up here without papers, it's a stimulating speech. On matters of content you will already imagine that I do not agree very much with your Aznarian style. But every time you intervene, I wonder what Mr Rivera is going to say because you don't leave him much room. You have done a very riverist intervention before, you have quoted Franklin, you have quoted Azaña, you have quoted Machado - we do not know very well whether Antonio or Manuel - and, of course, I, Mr Rivera, after what Mr Casado says, will go to the center, but no. He has gone straight to the Valley of the Fallen and tells us that he said to Rajoy: Lord Rajoy, his 155 is very loose, I want a 155 harder and longer. Excellent, Mr. Rivera, excellent. [[Applauds]] You two tell us you're constitutionalists and you tell us about the Spanish Constitution. Article 41 of the Spanish Constitution: 'The public authorities shall maintain a public social security system for all citizens, ensuring adequate social assistance and benefits in the face of situations of need, especially in the event of unemployment'. Tell them about the Spanish Constitution and its constitutionalism to the long-term unemployed who do not receive any benefits. [[Applauds]] Article 42 of the Spanish Constitution: 'The State shall ensure in particular the protection of the economic and social rights of Spanish workers abroad and shall direct its policy towards their return'. Tell them that you are constitutionalists to the young Spanish exiles who have had to leave here for their economic policies. [[Applauds]] Article 50 of the Spanish Constitution: 'The public authorities shall ensure, by means of adequate and regularly updated pensions, the economic sufficiency of citizens during their senior years'. Tell them that they are constitutionalists to pensioners who had to go out on the street to receive their pension. [[Applauds]] Article 128: 'All the wealth of the country in its various forms and whatever its ownership is subordinated to the general interest'. You hate this article of the Constitution because you don't believe in the Constitution, you make it a brick to throw it to those who don't think like you. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, you said imagine someone had asked for Tejero's pardon from the 23-F coupts. 23 December 1988, the Council of Ministers agreed to pardon General Armada, the king's expreceptor and responsible for the coup d'état. [[Applauds]] 14 September 1993, the Supreme Court, Mr. Rivera, was in favour of Tejero's pardon. Was the Supreme Court a coup, Mr. Rivera? You represent many Spanish citizens, out of respect for those people to whom you represent you ever open a history book. [[Applauds]] Mr Tardà, I thank you for your parliamentary tone. You're a great parliamentarian. He spoke of history with a little more precision; that is, let me say, when he remembered the role of Alfonso XIII in 1923 he could have mentioned the role of Francesc Cambó. When you spoke of corruption as a problem in Spain, you might have remembered that the greatest humiliation to Catalan institutions is called Jordi Pujol, for telling the whole story. [[Applauds]] I know that for you it was not easy to say what you said today and I thank you, it was not easy for you to say: we are still in time. Let us continue to work together, Mr Tardà, despite the difficulties we all have. Mr Esteban, I wish we had in Spain a Christian democracy like the one you represent. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u77	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u78	You have been brave, you have criticized the monarchy and I know that you have merit in dealing with the PNV and you have also been brave in criticizing some friends of yours who bet irresponsibly for the worst, the better. You guys can help a lot. Let us continue to collaborate, let us continue to work together, we need responsibility for those who turn the law and the Constitution into a brick that throws away those who do not think like them. Mr. Campuzano, you said that the president of the government sounds just like Susana Díaz. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u79	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u80	Man, no; this is like I say you sound just like President Torra. They sound different. It is true that Mrs Díaz and Mr Sánchez are from the same party and that Mr Torra and you are from the same party and have to say similar things, but they sound different and I like you better. You said something today that was hard to say to you. He said: let us work to regain the spirit of the motion of censure. Let's do it, Mr. Campuzano, let's work and talk. Mr Baldoví, you have spoken about the end of monologues and the need for dialogue. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u81	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u82	You have a Valencian style that has allowed for a progressive agreement. We need that Valencian style too to agree in the state. Mrs. Beitialarrangeitia, I respect your position. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio: The president is there]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Wait a minute, Mr. Iglesias. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, I respect your position, but I do not think you risked it today. You said the usual. I know that in private you have another kind of reflection and I think it would be good for you to make it public. And finally, Mr President of the Government, we are all wrong sometimes and it is wise to be able to rectify. [[strong rumors]] You and I know perfectly well what to do. We have done our part; do yours. People in Spain need patriotism of coming to the end of the month, patriotism of things to eat; people in Spain need budgets. Let us all do what we have to do to ensure that those who use institutions and laws as stones to throw away do not bring corruption and lies back to the Government of the State. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u86	Thank you, President. I was going to take the turn of reply to Mr Sánchez, but as I see that Mr Iglesias has usurped his functions and answered all the groups in the House... [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Be careful, Mr. Sanchez, that tomorrow I'll take the helicopter. Watch him because... [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u87	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u88	Mr. Sánchez, I'm going to give you and the rest of the Spaniards a break. Look at me, Mr. Sánchez, you are not going to rule in Andalusia. Thirty-seven years of socialism in Andalusia are enough. [[Applauds]] Thirty-seven years! Not even a citizen government would be good thirty-seven years. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, you are going to go to the opposition and it is the prelude to what is going to happen at national level. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: The Prelude!]] You too will go to the opposition, but when you call elections. So what we are going to do while, Mr Sánchez, is try to make this work what is left of the legislature. I told you in Andalusia and I tell you at national level, Mr Sánchez, Catalonia is not a joke. You say that there is a problem of coexistence; no, what there is a problem with some gentlemen who have given a coup d'état and the rest who suffer it. You make equidistance between the two? 3 and the Democrats again to get the support. [[Butterflies]] You have come up to this rostrum today, we have been debating here for hours and you have not committed to implementing the Constitution. I recognize that defrauding when someone doesn't expect anything from someone is complicated, but it is that you disappoint even when we don't expect anything from you. You have failed again, Mr. Sanchez. It has not undertaken to implement the Constitution. In Catalonia and the rest of Spain today many citizens will say: Well, what does Mr Sánchez expect him to have died, as Mr Torra says? What do you think the Slovenian way is? A game? It is a war, Mr Sánchez, which Mr Torra proposes. When it says the Slovenian way it is a war with more than sixty people dead and hundreds wounded. Mr Sánchez, if there is a dead man in Catalonia, as Mr Torra says - I do not say this, I hope it does not happen - if something happens in Catalonia, you will be responsible for it. The government of the nation is not just about taking planes, it is not just about carrying the business card; the power, Mr. Sánchez, is not displayed, it is exercised. 3 * Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[See the President's speech on page 65.]] And to exercise power is to defend your citizens, and you, if you don't act in Catalonia - and I won't say it more times, I say it here again - will be co-responsible for what happens in my land, of course, because if I were a decent president, I would act. [[Applauds]] So let's hope Torra's puppies, those he tells them to squeeze, those he protects - he says he has his whole family there; in fact, he would want to be there and I don't know if he's sometimes incognito -, don't act. But Mr. Torra wants these gentlemen to act. He says to them: Press, press! Do you know what they do when they squeeze? They go to Parliament and surround you, Mr Sánchez, and they pull fences, and they assault cops, and the deputies have to leave the Chamber under escort. That's what their partners do. Mr. Sanchez, that's enough. It's not worth everything in life or politics, it's not worth everything, and you're worth everything, so you'll have power a little bit more. Mr Sánchez, I repeat to you again, it is a disappointment that the President of the nation comes to this House for a monographic debate on Catalonia and we leave this debate with more uncertainty, without applying the Constitution, without reaching out to the constitutionalists. We're getting out of here and you're trying to criminalize those we've always been together defending the Constitution. [[Rumors]] You're wrong again, Mr. Sanchez. And I tell you one thing, you were kicked out of your party for wanting to compromise with the separatists. Do you remember? Do you remember when his party set up a federal committee and he was kicked out, kicked in the street for trying to make a deal with the separatists? You denied it, you said: no, I didn't want to. I didn't want to? That's what he's done. And now, what do you get? You're going to charge yourself to your party, Mr. Sanchez. It doesn't matter to you, it doesn't matter to the Socialist Party, Spain, Andalusia, everything, the important thing is that you have the power, that you have the power. And that's not what we want. We with the Socialist Party have alliances of state: against terrorism, to defend the Constitution, to apply the Constitution in Catalonia, in international affairs and, despite Sánchez, surely there are many socialists who think that it is better to be at the hands of Citizens or the People's Party than at the extremes. By the way, speaking of extremes, if you are so concerned about extremes, you have it very easy, abstain in Andalusia and let Citizens and the People's Party rule. [[Applauds]] In fact, they also kicked him out because he had to abstain from Rajoy's investiture. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, you know what I'm talking about. But there are people in his party who at one point defended that we had to abstain in order not to block the institutions. I ask you: Mr Sánchez, are you going to block the Andalusian Junta or are you going to let Citizens and the People's Party, two constitutionalist parties, rule? Ah, you prefer it to be Vox! [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: Vox, Vox]] Then we know what this is about. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Of course, of course, I understand now. Now we know what Mr Sánchez wants, he wants the extremes to have the key and not the constitutionalists to rule. But, Mr. Sanchez, do you know what's going on? You have a problem, that those extremes also end up biting you and those extremes will end up taking away your votes. You know why? Because in Europe, as you have seen, that extends, the extremes are touched, Mélenchon and Le Pen are touched, and here too. You keep going, you're on the right track, you'll see how the extremes eat it. So, Mr Sánchez, I propose here that you return to constitutionalism, that you at least listen to people from your party who don't think like you; Mrs Susana Díaz certainly doesn't agree with you in many things. I know that there are socialists who say: that there should be a blockade in Andalusia, that there should be a government. I ask you here, in this rostrum, that if you think of the good of the Andalusians let there be government in Andalusia and do not, with your decision, throw the governments into the hands of the Podemos, of the extremes, of the Voxes. If you really believe that the constitutionalists have to agree, you have it easy: you abstain, you go to the opposition and you play an institutional role, as a government in Andalusia deserves. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Despite their laughter - I don't say they laugh at the Andalusians, but it might seem so -, I hope you don't block. It's over, Mr. Sanchez. You have lost the opportunity; a monographic debate about Catalonia without good news for Catalans: you are not going to be protected, you are not going to apply the Constitution, you are not going to make a requirement, you say you are already worth what you have answered Torra, that with Mrs Calvo's letters it is all over. No, Mr Sánchez, we have a problem and it is not a problem of coexistence, there is no one facing another; there are some gentlemen who have given a coup d'état and Democrats who are suffering it. And I'm certainly not going to be wrong side by side in history, I'm going to be with the Democrats, aren't I? 4. [[Butterflies]] I'll never accept to rule with those?*............................................................. [[Butterflies]] By the way, Mr. Iglesias, Mr. Tejero - you said to open the history books - did not ask the 4 * Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[See the President's speech on page 65.]] pardon and spent more than fifteen years in prison. Do you agree or are you going to keep asking for the pardon for them? 5 if there is a conviction? [[Butterflies]] [[Applauds]] So, beyond the La Tuerka style exercise that you have come to do here - I guess you're getting ready to see the results in Catalonia and Andalusia - you should also know, because in this country there were people with courage who when there was a coup d'état said no and they didn't support them; nobody supports them. Mr Sánchez, you clean up the image of those who have given a coup d'état, that is what you are doing and we - and I am addressing other parties in this House - believe that we cannot make the same mistake; we will never be able to legitimize anyone trying to liquidate our democracy. You will pass to history - your short story - because you are the president of Spain who tried to clear the image of those who gave a coup d'état and we, I hope soon, will pass to history by recomposing the bridges between constitutionalists and democrats. I'll wait for you at the polls, Mr. Sanchez. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u89	I give the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to exercise again... yes, we are going to exercise an act of democratic self-defence. [[Rumors]] Are you, Mr. Rivera, one?*............................................................. [[fascist]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] We said we'd never offend. Moreover, throughout this morning the debate, certainly hard, has - I think - passed within limits, but in the end Mr Rivera had to say it and accused us of?*............................................................. [[Butterflies]] Well, we, democratic self-defense: are you a?*, and I'm very sorry to have to say it. [[fascist]] [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr.Cantó García del Moral: Yes, you can see]] I'm deeply sorry, and if anyone doesn't believe it, it's their problem. I repeat, I deeply regret having to address these words to Mr Rivera. [[Rumors]] Secondly, comrade Pablo Iglesias, I think you've been wrong about a history book and I think it's a stabbing trapper what you said. [[Mr. Turrion Churches Makes Negative Signs]] You can't talk to a Republican telling him... By the way, I in the debate have denounced the corruption of the central and autonomous governments, from the Catalonia of Pujol to the Madrid of Esperanza Aguirre, from the Andalusia of Chaves to the Galicia of Feijóo. [[Applauds]] And you can't talk to us like Cambó was ever a Republican; he was always accidental. I sincerely believe, Paul, that we do not deserve it, and precisely because of the esteem that we have the two political forces we have to make it clear from the rostrum. Thirdly, Mr Sánchez, you cannot allow Mr Casado to denigrate a Member of the Republican Left. It can't be. If Mr Borrell had the dignity of standing up and saying that the Member of the Republican Left did not spit on him, then Mr Casado could not say what he said. It turns out our partner spit on him! [[Protests.-Several Members: He spit on him!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u91	Quiet. [[Rumors and Protests]] Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Otherwise, I'll suspend the session. Go on, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u92	How sad, my God, how sad! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u93	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u94	Mr Sánchez, the only unilaterality is not to accept that there is a vast majority of Catalan citizens who would agree to a referendum, provided that everyone felt integrated into the solution. That is, what would we do with 50% Catalans who are not independent if dialectics were independence yes or independence too? They would be excluded. But if the dialectic is: this autonomy that you have or a better one, what do we do with the 50% of independenceists that we exist? Do we have to go into exile? I mean, how can something new be built if we leave half the population out? It is true that there is no majority for independence, there is a majority for the referendum. Now, I must say one thing, if you believe that the solution is repression, imprisonment, that we will have to fight in the coming years for amnesty and 5 * Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Amnesty candidatures - as there have been in other times in the history of Catalonia - do not worry, we will have them by majority. [[See the President's speech on page 65.]] [[Applauds]] Does anyone believe that citizenship can be seduced in the 21st century with sentences of fifteen, twenty or twenty-five years in prison and that we must mobilize all democrats - all, the independentists and the non-independentists - to fight for amnesty? Do you think that when we fight for amnesty, we will fight for amnesty alone? You know that we will fight for amnesty and self-determination and will have even more difficulty in preventing this majority from being built. What do we say today? - I'm done. We say freedom, absolution and self-determination. What are we gonna say in a few months? We will say: freedom, amnesty and self-determination. We'll be in the same place. [[Rumors.-Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio utters words that are not perceived]] We must build a dialogue, make possible a negotiation so that all Catalans, all, I repeat, can see their legitimate aspirations and aspirations integrated. Why do my neighbors or family members - who are not independentists - have to feel recognized in their rights for you and instead I do not? In the same way that I cannot deny the rights of those Catalans who want to remain in Spain through autonomy, via federalism, also Catalans who are not independenceists have to recognize that we who are it have the right to vote for it. The referendum will be inevitable. Why do we have to make societies suffer? Why do we have to suffer, you and I, all of us, if in the end we can't put ourselves to democracy? In popular terms, you can't put doors to the countryside. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, very few days ago in a session like this I reminded you that there is freedom of expression, and there is no freedom of insult. And I also reminded you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Presidency can withdraw statements made by your ladies and gentlemen. That withdrawal of an expression already knows that, in parliamentary terms, it means that an asterisk is placed next to the offense and below: The Presidency withdraws the expression. As I reminded you then, and I remind you now, the words? Six there?* addressed by you to any of the members of this House will be withdrawn by the Presidency. [[fascist]] [[Coupler]] That is, I should like to inform you that the word which appears to be referring to your ladies and gentlemen, which is an insult, will be withdrawn by the Presidency. And I remind you of something else. I think we are all adults, we know what it is to do politics, to do good politics, to defend our ideas, but of course we cannot afford to go the same way. I therefore ask you to abide by the Rules of Procedure of the House and remember that politics is not insulting, politics is building and is building with the word. Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u96	Thank you, Madam President. There have been things in the debate that I cannot let go and to which I have to refer. For starters, there's been an unfortunate simile of Mr. Married. He said: the freedom of wolves means the death of sheep. And of course, he's the sheep. Now, you are the sheep, a person who says that the status of autonomy must not be fulfilled, nor that of Gernika, which is an organic law that has been endorsed. Yeah, you said that prison transfer, nothing. Hey, it's very clear in the statute. At least he could shut up, say nothing, but he says it in this rostrum and he presumes it, against a law of his own. Remember when the former President of the Government said that the law must be enforced. You don't seem to follow in that. Well, he used to do his naps, too, so he wouldn't do it exactly sometimes. The only thing you propose is: illegalization of referendums, amendment of the Criminal Code, prohibition of pardons, use of the National Security Act for something that was not prepared and that the same reports say so. Someone who has said that the one who seeks appeasement - has told this to the president - will have in confrontation and dishonor. What a future you offer as a political leader and a statesman! A whole statesman, but not from the center, who has never been, and today - I don't know in the future - neither from the right, in any case today from the right. [[Rumors]] And also requests 155 Mr. Rivera. Well, I think that here, for starters, they forget what the Constitution itself says, which requires action by the Government of Catalonia. And what has been said earlier by some speakers is also very important: proportionality in adopting it. Of course, what I am convinced is that the application of 155 in Catalonia is not going to bring, as the 6 * Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr. Rivera, freedom, security or democracy, because it's applying 155, exactly for what? To suppress autonomy in any degree, to control it? Applying 155 is to eliminate for decades, for the second time, the search for solutions, it seems to me that it is something that we should all have in mind if what we want is to get out of the mess in which not only Catalan policy but also Spanish policy is currently found. You, Mr. Rivera, Mr. Married, say you are looking for unity; you have said it several times. They do not really seek it, they seek it only theoretically, among their own, among the so-called constitutionalists, among those who feel Spanish; the others, those who have another feeling of national belonging, do not consider them. They do not respect us, they do not want to agree, they simply propose measures to repress. Do you have no representation of people who can differ absolutely from what you think? Of course, Mr. Rivera was once ironically told by Mr. President: what do you think, that Mr. Torra is going to swear the flag and adhere to the Constitution? It's just that Mr. Torra or anyone else don't have to swear a flag or adhere to the Constitution. Moreover, the Spanish Constitution itself in 1978 - in 2018 I no longer have it so clear - allowed and we all understood that perfectly in freedom it entered not to adhere to the Spanish Constitution from above and to have a different national feeling, of course it did; now it seems not to. Moreover, for that you only propose repression, only propose suppression. So don't talk to us about unity and trying to agree. And stop manoeuvring and trivializing the vocabulary, stop calling a blow to what was not; don't banalize the vocabulary, which then misinterprets things and so happens to them what happens to them in European courts. I'm finishing up. We are on the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution and next year will be the anniversary of the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika, forty years without being fulfilled in its entirety. I think that requires reflection. The President has said one thing before; he has come to say that if 75% of the Catalan population agrees with a proposal, we will drive it, etc. I greet him, I think it's great, what happens is that the Catalans have a bad memory of what happened with the statue; that's what Mr. Zapatero promised at a rally that I still remember, and I remember that Mr. Tardà and I commented on it at the time and gave me a card and a picture of how Mr. Zapatero had promised to go ahead and what happened at the end. But I salute you, I think it's excellent. If 75%, broad, of a society agrees, let's try to move it forward. In no way will we face a new challenge in Euskadi, the possible proposal for a new statute. I believe that the Constitution has potential, that the additional provision has it. There is an open stage in the Basque Country right now and you are very important. I hope we can do all this in a transversal way. Let us hope that the Socialist Party of Euskadi is up to its standards at the moment. We're gonna try. I assure you, we are willing and will try sincerely. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u97	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, is it a good democracy in which 75% of citizens opt for independence and that demand can never be put to the vote by means of a referendum? If you invite us to build stronger majorities in favour of independence, that is where we are; but if you deny us, in principle, that the option of independence is legitimate and put it to the vote before the citizenry, that expresses a concept of low democratic quality. And that is the question raised by Catalan society. They tell us we're going against history. Look, Mr President, on our merits, but above all on the demerits of the majority of this House, there is more reason every day to understand that the project for independence offers more justice and more recognition than the absence of projects that you offer us. The day you offer a political project in Catalonia that is a winner, the independenceists will accept it. But today there is no winning political project in Catalonia that defends another model of Spain. It doesn't exist. On 21 December, 48% opted for independence, around 25% opted for federal reforms and another 25% opted for the status quo or the setback. Is there anyone who has a political proposal that exceeds 48 % of independence? There's no one. Budgets, Mr. Sanchez. We have not had the feeling in the Democratic Party, and I share this idea with some other speaker - I do not remember who he was - that you want to approve the budgets; we have not had it at any time. It seemed to us that they have managed, but they have not really had an interest in addressing the budget debate. I'm done, Madam President. Mr Casado and Mr Rivera will pass, as Mr Rajoy, Mr Aznar, Mr Franco and Mr Primo de Rivera have passed. They will. But Catalonia's will to be a nation will persist and triumph. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u99	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Casado, the truth is that listening to you is to come back twenty years ago and have José María Aznar here talking about ETA and 'go, Mr. González'. The truth is, you've mingled very well. He began his intervention by talking about terrorism. Our parties, the two of us, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, have suffered a lot from terrorism, and there are things I don't want to say, but I see myself in that obligation. [[Rumors]] The People's Party did not meet with Otegi, it met with the Basque National Liberation Movement when ETA was killing; when ETA was killing. [[Applauds]] And look, they say: We have never used the victims of terrorism. Dive a little for the Gürtel, dive a little for the corruption of the People's Party and see if some foundations of victims of your party's terrorism did not illegally fund your party. Plant it, because you probably find yourself with some surprise and have to apologize even to some people on your bench, and you've named them, I don't. Look, for continuing the question you were asking me in your speech, I did not know that Mr Tajani was a president of an NGO. Do you know what your statements were? There are NGOs who say that there are fifty million Africans who are lurking in the fences willing to storm Spain. Those were your statements, Mr. Casado. Do not tell me that you have not generated alarmism, that you are not intoxicating the country with that xenophobic speech to which the Spanish right has already accustomed us. [[Applauds]] And, by the way, you have the little shame of going out here and talking about pensions, and I'm going to remind you of something: you are the ones who emptied the bed of pensions and those of the shame of 0.25, and we are the ones who fill them and say IPC. That's the difference between you and us. [[Applauds]] The truth is that the recipe of the right to solve the conflict we have already seen this morning which is: in the face of the conflict, more conflict; in the face of the independence radicality, right-wing radicalism; in the face of anachronistic independence, the equal renationalization of anachronism, with the hand, by the way, of the Francoist partners of Andalusia; in the face of the manifest disloyalty of the independenceists, the irresponsible disloyalty of the right, not with Pedro Sánchez, not with the Government, but with Spain and with the Spaniards, because, Mr. Casado and Mr. Rivera, with those who are being irresponsible. You come here to talk about democracy, that democracy is really important; you, who are going to rely on a party that thinks that women are inferior to men, that wants there to be first and second citizens in this country depending on whether they are homosexual or heterosexual. You are going to agree or you are agreeing with the authoritarianism and the most rampant fascism in this country, with those who want - as I told you - to have first-class and second-class citizens. He comes here, giving us lessons of legality, constitutionalism, the party that created a political police within the Ministry of the Interior to spy on himself, the party that put the whole State at his service to avoid the action of justice. By the way, one of these people is headed by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate. [[Applauds]] How does it defend Spain and how does it not defend our homeland, Spain and the Spaniards? It is quite simple, although in this complex world, where politics is also complex, it seems that some try to entangle us. Do you know how to defend Spain and the Spanish? Adopting twenty-one laws in four months, which is what this Government and this parliamentary group have done, twenty-one laws in four months; lowering commissions to the Spanish mortgaged, precisely for that, to lower what they have to pay; offering palliative care to the Spanish who need it; improving student ratios per classroom and reversing educational cuts. [[applause]] This is making a homeland, a social homeland, a homeland for people. That's how Spain defends itself. And you know how he doesn't defend himself? Pacing with the extreme right, enemy of the rights and freedoms that the Spaniards have conquered with a great deal of sacrifice. You don't care about Spain, you don't care about the Spaniards - you're proving it in Andalusia - you only care about sharing the spoil, as you always did. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u101	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u102	Mr. Married, you come back with your faulty tone, which is already being brand of the house: coup, illegitimate. Today he has added two more: demagogue and indecent. Of course I reaffirm the extreme that the People's Party, when it is in opposition, uses terrorism to try to erode the socialist government. Look, you criticized the transfer of prisoners to Basque prisons or near the Basque Country. The president of the Covite Foundation said: They meet the legal requirements; we do not object. Therefore, what they did was to respond to their irresponsible position in relation to a State policy, such as the approach of prisoners to the Basque Country and its prisons. You, Mr Casado, have used the name Mari Mar Blanco, with which I had the opportunity to be at the Palace of La Moncloa a few days ago when we convened the patronage of the Foundation of Victims of Terrorism, in which you know that not only are the associations of victims of terrorism but also the Government of Spain and the Basque Country, as well as, among others, the Mayor's Office of Vitoria. Do you know what we did at that employers' meeting, Mr. Married? We approve, among others, the annual accounts of the foundation for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. That is, that foundation and its patronage did not meet since 2016. We, in six months, have summoned him and committed ourselves to advancing the foundation. [[Applauds]] On the Law of the State, I am obliged to tell you - the truth is that I thought you were not going to get into it again - that you would have to ask the former Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá, what position the previous Government of Spain had in relation to the Law of the State: first it was not to personate; second, to personate itself only by misrepresentation. In our case, Mr. Married, you've been characterizing us by misrepresentation and sedition. Mr.Married, you made clear on 29 October 2017 what your political position was in relation to Article 155. I'm going to read you what you said, more than anything to let all your lordships know. Mr. Casado said at a press conference on Genoa Street: 155 is a warning for Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities. Mr Casado has threatened all of Spain with 155; all of Spain, Mr Casado. [[Laughter]] You consider that Article 155, of course, is for Catalonia - sine die, perpetual - and for other autonomous communities. It does not specify which ones and I would like them to do so, but in any case I will tell you, Mr Casado, that this is not the reading done by the Spanish Government on the state of autonomy, the reading done by the Spanish Government and the Socialist Party of Title VIII of our Constitution, the reading done by the Socialist Party of a Spain which is diverse. You invoke the Spanish Constitution and appeal to it on many occasions, but the great success of the Spanish Constitution has been precisely recognizing territorial decentralization and democracy. In Spain there cannot be democracy without decentralization and recognition of territorial diversity and there cannot be recognition and territorial diversity if there is no democracy. What's the problem with that, Mr. Married? The right that you represent. The truth is that I, sometimes, when I'm talking in colloquial terms with some friends, have been asked, "How can such a young man be so stubborn in his thinking?" As you are, Mr. Married, as you are. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] More than evolving, you involve. It has led the People's Party to a political project in the beginning of the Transition. Before here, Manuel Fraga was referred to by the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana, but Mr Fraga, compared to you, was a moderate centrist. [[Applauds]] I gave you a reflection that was a board, a board like the ones I give to Mr. Rivera, which I give you, but you don't pay much attention to me. Mr. Aznar, who is ultimately a victim of his own character, will tell you that the best way to win an election is to articulate the speech you are making. It is true that you do not need to be encouraged by anyone either, because as soon as you can slip and lead us through re-centralisation and all those arguments that we have been using. But, I insist, Mr. Married, pay attention to me. Mr Aznar won the 1996 elections by invoking Manuel Azaña and speaking Catalan in privacy. On the way you go, the right of the People's Party is going to take many years to rule, so, look, I'm pretty quiet. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Andalusia]] Yes, I am now going to talk about Andalusia and Mr Rivera, because he has clearly said what his political purpose is. Its political purpose is to throw away the Socialist Party. Mr. Rivera, Mr. Santiago Abascal says quite surprising things. He says, for example, that Francoism is not and was not a dictatorship. Mr. Rivera, listen to me. Vox defends the disappearance of autonomy; that a woman, who is alone in her home, gets hit against the wall, calls to 061 and that night her husband sleeps in prison; that the laws against gender violence are totalitarian - listen well, Mr. Married -; that feminism is an aggressive attitude of a group of very organized and highly subsidized ladies. It talks about abolishing quotas on the electoral lists, which have made it possible to generalize the presence of women in the parties and which require a minimum of 40 per cent representation of each gender; taking out of public health interventions such as sex change or abortion because they are non-healthy. He says that homosexuals denaturalize marriage and calls for the State Security Forces and Bodies to be able to make greater use of violence and its weapons. He says that if one has to choose between the life of a prison official or the life of a Muslim prisoner, the one who goes to the grave is the Muslim prisoner; that the criminals are mostly foreigners and attack our grandmothers on the street. Mr. Rivera: Macron or Le Pen, Merkel or Salvini, Valls or Vox. That is, Mr Rivera, the question. [[Applauds]] You said a very suggestive thing, Mr. Rivera. He has come to say that what is going to happen in Andalusia is the prelude. That is, ladies and gentlemen, let all of Spain know: if it is for Citizens, People's Party, Citizens and Vox will rule in all public institutions that they can. That is what you said today, Mr Rivera - it is in the Journal of Sessions -, that is what your thought says when you slip and express yourself freely. What seems to me to be difficult, Mr Rivera - excuse me for using this expression - is to tell the first political force in Andalusia to let the People's Party and the Citizens rule and to abstain. Let us see, Mr Rivera, what you have to do is to look at what is happening in Sweden, where the European right has renounced to rule with the extreme and fascist right and, therefore, what you are proposing is to support the most voted list, which is the Socialist Party in Sweden. Do as the European right, the one who prides himself on not agreeing with the ultra-right. In addition, I will tell you one thing, Mr Casado and Mr Rivera: you will be able to dress the saint as you wish, but a motion of censure is not an investiture session. One motion of censure was the appeal to the responsibility of each and every parliamentary group to put an end to cases of corruption following cases of corruption that occurred in the previous Administration supported by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The investiture session is to agree on a government program. Yes, what you did to Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rivera, what you did to Mr. Rajoy. Therefore, what I am asking Mr Casado and Mr Rivera to do is to tell us, please, with light and stenographers, what they are doing with Vox so that the Socialist Party can remove the government of the Andalusian Junta. [[Applauds]] Two things have already been made clear to me by Mr Rivera: firstly, that his political objective is to throw the Socialist Party away and, secondly, that what has happened in Andalusia can be the prelude to what happens elsewhere in Spain. [[rumors]] Mr Rivera, thank you for saying what is quite obvious to many Spaniards and Spaniards. Mr Tardà, there is one thing I would like to say to the stenotipists to record in the Journal of Sessions. I have said three fifths and it is two thirds the majority that is needed in Catalonia to reform the Statute of Autonomy. It's not three-fifths, it's two-thirds. I believe that this is important and I would like it to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions and that it could be corrected in the account of this session in the Congress of Deputies. Mr Tardà, I do not question your legitimacy to defend independence, I do not question it. Here there are political parties that defend re-centralisation, there are political parties that defend independence, in this case of the Basque Country, there are political parties that defend the independence of Catalonia. This is something I would also like to say to Mr. Married and Mr. Rivera. I can carry out real decree-laws and bills with the parliamentary majority - the pacts are made for politics, and in that we are in the Chamber and in the Congress of Deputies - but I fight with arguments the position of independence. I said it here. And I'm not just entering into arguments from legumes that it's unconstitutional - of course it's unconstitutional and of course it's not included in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia -, I fight it because I say that the independence project is a movement that goes against history and against reason, because what it's doing is precisely separating. Look at what's going on in Scotland. In Scotland those who lost are asking for a second referendum; in the UK those who lost are also asking for a second referendum. And do you know what will happen in Scotland if there is a second referendum and also in the UK if there is a second referendum? I would like it to be done, because I think the important thing is that the United Kingdom stays in the European Union and does not leave. If it were up to me, logically, I would ask the United Kingdom not to leave the European Union. What is going to happen is that British society and Scottish society - and, of course, Catalan society if this type of vote were to happen - are going to be subjected to a confrontation, a fracture that is very difficult to rebuild in the short and medium term. I believe, Mr Tardà, that we have to find the point of support to see what adds more, and I will not tire of saying it: all the opinion studies, all the demoscopic studies that talk about what are the alternatives for Catalonia say that the majority of Catalans and Catalans what they want is self-government; self-government more strengthened or self-government less strengthened, but self-government. Therefore, I believe we have to build from self-government. When I speak, Mr Esteban, about the possibility that the Spanish Government will find a proposal representing two thirds of the Catalan House, what am I talking about? Obviously, I am talking about transversality, I am talking about a dynamic that transcends the blocks, I am talking about the Republican Left and the PDeCAT talking with the PSC, with the commons, with Citizens and with the little left of the People's Party in Catalonia and that we try not to create a political project for the extremes, which is what we are in - Citizens on the one hand and independence on the other - but to enter a zone of moderation, of encounter, where I believe that most of Catalan society can be. That is the position and will of the Government of Spain. With regard to Scotland, with the United Kingdom, with what we are seeing right now in the Brexit, the question is not whether there is a second, a third or a fourth referendum, but that there cannot be a referendum other than to raise the fracture and division of Catalan, British or Scottish society. I believe that this is the responsibility of all the parliamentary groups, starting first with those who are right now in the Catalan Parliament. When I meet President Torra a few months ago and ask myself the right to self-determination, what I ask him is: Who is behind you? What social support do you have? Let's face it, there is no social majority in Catalonia that supports independence, that supports self-determination. There's a majority that wants self-government, and that's where I think we need to go. Mr Tardà, I have always argued that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, adopted at the beginning of the two-thousands of years, as a result of the appeal to the Constitutional Court by the People's Party, logically now lacks much-needed legitimacy to serve as an aggregator of Catalan society, because a statute was voted on which was then cut by the Constitutional Court. That's where we agree. It is therefore clear that we have to go to a final vote, but it has to be about a question that adds and does not divide and separate Catalan society in this case in two. I believe that I have also responded to Mr Esteban with regard to cross-cutting. Of course, the will of the Basque Socialist Party is to reform the Statute of Gernika to ensure this cross-cutting. The Statute of Gernika could be an opportunity to face the challenges of Basque society and Spanish society and not so much to circumscribe it to a purely identity issue. I think that if we focused on that issue alone, it would be a tremendous mistake. Mr. Campuzano, I thank you - and very much - for having the tone you have. I understand the positions he holds. I have never considered illegal the defence of independence that you or your parliamentary group can do - I insist - I do not consider it illegitimate, but I also believe that you have to recognize the other non-nationalist side of Catalonia. They just don't recognize her. They're voting. They have voted five times since 2014. Therefore, all I ask of you is that you recognize the non-nationalist part of Catalonia. Talk to her. Try to persuade them, try to tell them that a great consensus can be forged that represents those two thirds of the Catalan Parliament. Even - look - I am surprised that it is denied and refused to be able to reach agreements with parliamentary groups in the Parliament of Catalonia that do not think like half that it is nationalist, that is, it is much better to rely on the UPC than to be able to rely on other parliamentary formations in the Parliament of Catalonia. I think it's a mistake. It seems to me that the opportunity you have should be, precisely, to try to reach transversal agreements. Of course, we'll be on it. The political project for Catalonia? I have summarized it to a degree which I raised at the beginning of this session: the minimum interprofessional wage at EUR 900. That is what we are going to approve in the Council of Ministers, which is to be held in Barcelona on 21 December. Why? Because it is a measure for all Catalans and for the whole of Spanish society. This is the same project that we have for Catalonia and for the whole of Spanish society; a project of coexistence, recovery of rights, reconstruction of the welfare state, which has been decimated as a result of the crisis and the wrong policies. In that regard, I regret that you consider that we have not had a strong will to present the General Budgets of the State. What was the problem? That the day after reaching an agreement with the United Parliamentary Group We can, to which I thank - and very much - the position that it is maintaining on this matter, we find ourselves with a non-rotundo, with a closing the door by the highest leaders of independence in Catalonia. So, welcome to that shade. Let us hope that in the coming weeks we can reach agreements that will undoubtedly be important and positive for Catalan society and Spanish society. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u104	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. He asked, first of all, Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Look, since you insist on terrorism, I'm going to take a few words from your vice president, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, to say that terrorist lessons from a party stained with live lime, none. [[Protests]] I'm not saying it, he said it. Not one. He said it. That said, and before you get into the question - this is the explanatory statement of the same - you also do not give us pension lessons because you froze them being a Member. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u106	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u107	He's not going to give us parliamentary roller lessons either, because he lied here. He has brought seventeen royal decrees and three bills, roll. Without support, he can't legislate, and I see he can't rule either. Lessons about 155 aren't going to give us either you or any other party. If it was short in its extension it was because Citizens asked it to be instrumental; if it was short in its competences it was because it was so amended by the Socialist Party in the Senate. Most voted list lessons, none. I have brought, as chairman of a parliamentary group, three bills to change municipal regulations to govern the most voted party. You are ruling right now in Aragon, in the Valencian Community or, for example, you are facilitating the Government of Cantabria or the Government of Castilla-La Mancha - leading it - or that of Baleares or the cities of Madrid, Zaragoza or Valencia without winning the elections. I can go on: Valladolid, Palma, Vitoria, etc. Therefore, if you had given up your pacts not having won and if you had voted three times that legislation we were proposing, you could talk about being able to ally ourselves with a historic change in the Andalusian Junta, as I also put it here. Today I was going to ask him when he was going to call elections, as he committed before, during and after the motion of censure. But after what I have heard you say to Mr Campuzano and what I have heard you say to Mr Tardà - saying that you want to make it clear in the Journal of Sessions - my concern is extreme. You are saying that with the agreement of two thirds of the Catalonian Parliament a statute is amended and that, without going through the aggravated reform of the Constitution, you will establish a bilateral negotiation of the independence and self-determination that Mr Tardà has lost. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u108	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u109	Mr Tardà has gone up there to tell him that his road map is freedom of prisoners, absolution, self-determination, amnesty and the Catalan nation. And you, as President of the Government, instead of responding to that, which is serious, come to insult the opposition that you have not insulted, you said that it is unworthy that you do not answer and that you should resign if you do not do so right now. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casado, at last, you are not very satisfied with the debate, because you are trying to counter-reply to the government in the control session. You talk a lot about the Constitution, but you are not aware of the Constitution quite clearly, Mr. Married, quite clearly. [[Rumors]] Let's see, two thirds of the Catalonian Parliament is needed to reform the Catalonian Autonomy Statute. That is what I am referring to, Mr Casado, you do not invent or elaborate on issues that, perhaps, legitimise your radicalism but have nothing to do with the position of the Government or with my person. Mr Casado, when you refer to the application of a perpetual article 155 in Catalonia, when you refer - you did when you were spokesman for the previous government - to the notice to navigators representing 155 in other autonomy, you are breaking a very delicate and very important consensus in Spain, which is the consensus around Title VIII of our Constitution. Title VIII of our Constitution made it possible for territorial diversity - I said in my first intervention - to be recognized, to create opportunities, to forge prosperity in territories in which neither growth nor prosperity came for many years. And I'm not thinking of Catalonia or the Basque Country, I'm thinking of lands like Castile-La Mancha, Extremadura, Castile and Lion or Andalusia. Therefore, Mr Casado, the state of self-government, do not raise a threatening speech for the whole of self-government and also for the whole of the Spaniards. Where it goes, unfortunately, it will be located more in the far right than in the centerright that your party needs, and much. Otherwise, Mr Casado, I will tell you, in answer to your question, that much remains to be done. Seven years of People's Party government involve many wrecks. We have to recover the welfare state, we have to repeal labour reform, we have to extend rights and freedoms and, above all, Mr Casado, we have to defend coexistence, defend the Constitution and defend Title VIII which you, with your words and measures, are questioning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u112	Thank you. - of Mr Albert Rivera Diaz, of the CID parliamentary group, which expresses to the President of the Government: Do you consider that the current political situation responds to the needs of the Spanish company? [[File number 180/000886]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u113	Question, also addressed to the President, by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u114	Thank you, President. Mr President-in-Office, I would like to ask you about the deficit path and the budgets. 1.8 is what you proposed, but, as you know, if you do not have a majority in the General Courts, you cannot go there and therefore you will have to go to 1.3, which is what was approved, which the Congress of Deputies approved in this case, which the General Courts approved. I ask you, Mr Sánchez, what taxes you are going to raise in addition to those you have already said. Where are you going to get 5 billion more out of the pocket of the Spaniards? If it's going to go from 1.8 to 1.3 and you intend to bring them in, don't fool the Spaniards, because it's going to put another sablazo on them. Europe, Mr Sánchez, has already told you that it caught you with the ice cream cart, which is not worth it, which has a hole of 4 billion, which they lied to the European Union on behalf of Spain. Since we have fallen apart in Europe, I am now asking you, because I asked you in your day: Can you tell us here, in the National Chamber, where you are going to put another blast so that it is not only 4000 holes, but 5 billion more? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u116	Madam President, I have to say that Mr Rivera's question to me is: Do you consider that the current political situation responds to the needs of Spanish society? Finally, Mr Rivera makes a constant parliamentary filibusterism every time he has the opportunity to address the President of the Government, but I ask him what I have to answer...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u117	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I've stopped time. You know that the President and any member of the Government have to answer what they have been asked about, and that is what was asked when the question was put in writing. Thank you very much. You can go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u118	You who speak so much of respect for legality, respect the legality that we have given ourselves in this Congress, with the rules of the Congress of Deputies, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] Since you have asked me this question, what I am saying to you, answering your question, do you consider that the current political situation responds to the needs of the Spaniards? What I am saying to you is: Do you consider that the ideology of the Spanish far right also, Mr Rivera, responds to the needs of the Spanish society of the 21st century? I will simply say to you, Mr Rivera, that the macroeconomic forecasts of the Spanish government coincide, yes, with those of international bodies, and to a large extent also with those of the European Commission. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u119	Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u120	Mr. Sanchez, I'm not asking you something very complicated. You are the President of the Government and you do not know the General Budgets of the State, the deficit path and how you will do it. Do you really have no idea and must you claim that you do not know the question, which speaks of political today? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u121	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u122	That I didn't ask you about the thesis, calm down. [[Laughter]] I asked him about the General Budgets of the State, and the President of the Government claims to me that he does not know the General Budgets of the State or how he will meet 1.8 to 1.3. I find it amazing that the Spanish have a president who does not know how to answer the simplest question posed to a president of the government, which is how you will manage your country's economy. But, said that, Mr. Sánchez, don't hide it, if you don't know it's okay, I thought you knew it. I say again that Brussels has given them a setback. He told them: they have lied, there is a hole of EUR 4300 million; they are going to put a blast on the self-employed, we have found out; they are going to raise the cost of the contributions so that you no longer hire Yes, yes, don't say that not with your head. [[the president of the government makes negative gestures]] They're gonna put the diesel in and I don't recommend that you go around a lot, that you know what's going on. Mr Sánchez, tell us where you're going to get 5 billion more; if you don't know, ask the minister, the vice president and ask for the public's wild card, but please answer us. In the control session I asked you about the political current, but is there anything more topical - since you said you were going to bring them - that I asked you about the budgets? So, Mr. Sanchez, don't run away. Answer, because you are an escapee, a Houdini, when you want and when it comes to parliamentary questions. Can you tell me where you're going to put another $5 billion hatchet in the pocket of the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u123	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u124	Thank you, Madam President. What a level, Mr. Rivera! What a level! What a level! [[Rumors]] If I have no problem answering your questions, just write them down. You follow the line and respect the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, Mr Rivera, nothing more. Ask what you think is appropriate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u125	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u126	What do you want me to say? Mr Rivera, I insist, the Government of Spain is going to meet its objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact, the Government of Spain is going to meet its targets of public deficit and public debt, the Government of Spain, Mr Rivera, has found in the European Commission an institution that knows perfectly well that we are a pro-European government and that we are going to meet our objectives. I'll tell you more, Mr. Rivera, we're not going to give a blast to the self-employed, as you say, no. By the way, Mr Macron has raised the interprofessional minimum wage to 1500 euros. Do you agree or consider it an old-fashioned measure, as you said in relation...? [[Rumors]] No, 1500 euros, 100 a month, let's see if you find out. In any case, Mr Rivera, what we are going to do is to open a big debate, yes, we have to open a big debate on taxation than the big technological corporations, on the taxation of the big companies in our country, and above all on defending the taxation of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to whom we are going to lower the type of companies, the self-employed and the people with fewer resources. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES YOU THINK TO TAKE ANY MEASURES TO ENTER FRENCH THE GROWTH OF THE OVERSIDE IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/000877]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u128	He also asked the President of Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u129	Thank you very much, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u130	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u131	Mr Sánchez, Mr President, the question is simple, but very important. What is your government planning to do to stop the far right in this country?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u133	Firstly, I believe that there is social unrest as a result of the crisis and austerity policies. I believe that we have an enormous opportunity for all the political forces present in this House to approve general state budgets that rebuild the welfare state, that rebuild many of the policies damaged during the seven years of the People's Party government. That is our proposal, that is our position, and I would like to see all the groups in the House at least not denying the possibility of the budget entering this House so that it can be debated in the Committee on Budgets. From there you will allow me, Mr Rufián, a counter-question: What are you willing to do to stop the far right in this country as well? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u135	Thank you very much, President. Look, Mr. President, we since he got Franco out of the valley of the Fallen and some put him on the board of Andalusia have accused us of everything, have accused us even of being the cause of the rise of the ultra-right in this country, I understand that we will not be blamed for Trump, Salvini, Orbán or Bolsonaro; in the end it is the reflection of a drift. We know them very well. Vox was a private prosecution months ago in the farce-judgment of our comrades asking for seven hundred years in prison. Here I could reproach you - I think it has been a day of reproach - and say that it is not we who provoke the rise of the ultra-right, but those who put themselves with them on a banner in manifestations of Catalan Civil Society - and it has some very, very close - but I repeat that today is not a day of reproach. Today I offer you help and make an anti-repressive front, make an anti-fascist front to try to prevent the three horsemen of the Ultra Apocalypse - Rivera, Married and Abascal - from being at the gates of Moncloa, because - and it is not a tweet, I also tell your de facto partner, Mr. Iglesias - fascism is not appeased, combated and destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u137	I'm sorry to disagree, Mr. Rufián, I think the far right... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u138	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u139	The ultra-right, like any extremist movement, is fought passionately, but with arguments, with reasons appealing to moderation, to wisdom, to common sense, precisely all that is not being done by the People's Party or citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN OF PAPERS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WILL THE MINISTERS AFFECTED BY THE SCHANDALS SHALL HAVE DIMITTIONS OR CESES? [[File number 180/000888]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u140	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality of Mrs Dolors Montserrat of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u141	Thank you, President. Your Honor, will there be resignations or cessations of the ministers affected by scandals?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u142	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u143	Thank you, Madam President. No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montserrat, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u145	Your Honor, in no serious country can a government afford a cover like this, where no one has appeared or resigned. [[shows a cover of the ABC newspaper]] You arrived in Moncloa as the paradigm of exemplary... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u146	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u147	And today they are the paradigm of shame. A government based on Mr Sánchez's indefensible doctoral thesis, where scandals are accumulating: instrumental societies to pay less taxes - Duke and Calvin -, concealment of goods - Celaá -, very serious violation for privileged information in Abengoa - Borrell -, chivataz a Borrell by the current Secretary of State for Energy, and of course I do not neglect or forget Minister Delgado, the most reproved minister in history in this House; his lies and comments are unacceptable. Their daily presence in the ministry damages the prestige of our institutions. And today, Mrs. Calvo, don't come to me with your usual relief telling me that those facts happened when they were ministers to us. Stop unfolding and happening, keep to the words of your boss, Mr. Sánchez. Today you have spoken of moral regeneration and you forget that Mr Sánchez literally said: If anyone in my party has an interposed society to pay half of the taxes is out the next day. Today you have it very easy: tell us when you are going to resign your ministers, because the Spaniards are tired of no one resigning here, that you are preaching one thing in Ferraz and another in Moncloa. [[rumors.-Laughter]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u148	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u149	Yeah, yeah. That is why the Andalusians have thrown them out of the Junta, for their lies, for their double measuring rod, for their humiliation and betrayal of Spain. Mrs Calvo, listen to Tezanos, call elections now, because this will return the People's Party to solve all the wreckage that the Socialist Party always does to the Spaniards. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u150	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montserrat, I see you're making good progress. I'm going to explain your scandal, because that's why you ask me, and then I'm going to explain mine, my scandal. You are shocked to have public knowledge of the assets of this entire government, which I never knew of you when I was teaching my students. I never knew his assets as a minister, because they never published them. [[Applauds]] That is the level of ethics of the Government you come from; that is. [[Rumors]] This government has not only published all the assets of its members, but has also just proposed to you - and Mr. Casado has told us that it is a smokescreen - to shorten and improve the formula in which public offices have to face justice by suffocating, and we have been told that it is a smokescreen. Be brave and discuss that, and tell the Spaniards that this government is ready to improve transparency and accountability. Now I'm going to explain my scandal. Look, I don't know how to qualify what was happening to me to see a minister from his party who was passing through the garage and didn't even see a Jaguar, who seemed to be raised in the garage where he was; a minister who was in the Panamanian papers with money outside of Spain, being a minister, but didn't know it; a minister who was also responsible for his party, who was meeting with former Commissioner Villarejo to talk about things that didn't help justice; three former ministers put in jail. [[applause]] That was not a scandal; it has a name in the laws of this country. My colleagues are clean of any process, which you can't say of yours. [[protests]] That's scandal in any dictionary you look at. The level of ethical demand of this Government has led to the dispensation of a minister whom justice has subsequently absolved of everything. That's the level you'll never reach. It's not scandals, it's crimes. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DON RAFAEL ANTONIO HERNANDO FRAILE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WILL THE MINISTER DEVELOPING THAT WE HAVE TO PAY MUCH BETWEEN ALL THE SPAINERS? [[File number 180/000890]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u152	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, by Mr Rafael Antonio Hernando Fraile. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u153	Mr Borrell, I see that the Vice-President has run off and leaves you alone, as did the President of the Government, when you said that the independenceists had spit on you here, and you were unable all this time to defend him. Let's talk, Mr. Borrell, about crimes, which is what the Vice President was talking about. You have been convicted by the National Securities Market Commission for using inside information to sell shares as an advisor to a listed company. You sold those shares the day before that company's creditors entered into a competition. That day the shares collapsed, thousands of shareholders lost their savings and thousands of employees lost their jobs in that company; the company in which you charged a good sum of money for being a counselor. Mr. Borrell, you know this is a serious crime in many countries around us that you visit every day. You have lost the little prestige you had here as a foreign minister, but when you go out, you drag the contempt of Spain every time you have to go out and act like such a minister. That's why I'm asking you when you're going to resign, Mr. Borrell. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u154	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u155	In particular, the question you asked me is whether I will resign before the Spanish have to pay the penalty, and my answer is that it is impossible for me to make a hypothetical decision over time regarding a circumstance that is impossible to happen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u156	Mr. Hernando, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u157	You don't want to answer because what you want is to avoid your responsibilities. It has been sanctioned with a very serious administrative offence, but it is not just an administrative offence, because you know that article 286 bis recognizes your activity and your performance as a crime, a crime of economic corruption, and the problem that you have - and the government has - is that from now on you will have to face thousands of complaints that can be presented to you by any Spanish citizen who has been shareholders of the Abengoa public company. Look, it's okay for you to look elsewhere when you open the embassies to insult Spain, it's okay for you to talk about Catalonia being a nation, kicking the Spanish Constitution, it's okay for you to even use the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to put it in the service of Mr. Sánchez as if it were a travel agency, but what is absolutely unacceptable is that you don't recognize your responsibility, that you've acted like a suspected criminal, and that you don't go home anymore, Mr. Borrell. Leave now, Spain will thank you. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u158	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u159	Thank you very much. I'm not an alleged criminal. [[Rumors]] No, an administrative sanction does not constitute an offence, and you should put things on your site, because when it comes to the case of a person performing an operation on an amount that represents less than 10% of his portfolio and loses the remaining 90% it can hardly be considered to have been an action based on privileged information. [[Rumors]] This is the reality. [[Rumors]] Tell it all, please, tell it all, because it gives the impression that it has been an act absolutely motivated by a fraudulent end.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u160	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u161	Less than 10% losing more than 90% of the rest doesn't really mean that privileged information is being used. [[Protests]] I have assumed my responsibility, I have renounced my appeal because that forced me to go through an appeal with another colleague of this government, but when you say that the Spaniards are going to pay this penalty you are trivializing the remuneration of a public worker, because it suggests that this job is worthless, that it is only received to compensate for sanctions, and not, no, Mr. [[Rumors]] The remuneration I receive as a minister or the one you receive as a Member has nothing to do with what we do next with this money. It represents the compensation for an effort at the service of the public sector that I intend to continue to make. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u162	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF MAJOR RAFAEL PERALES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, THE FRAMEWORK OF ALCOA PRIVATIATIONS AND THE SESTAO VESSEL, TO DEFEND WORK POSTS AND INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY? [[File number 180/000882]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u163	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u164	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u165	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u166	What are the measures envisaged by the Government to address the failure of the privatizations of Alcoa and La Naval de Sestao, to defend jobs and industrial activity?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mayor, the Government is fully committed to an active industrial policy that will allow us to adapt to future challenges. Our priority as you know is to reindustrialize this country, improve the productivity of the economy, and contribute to the increase in quality employment. As you know, we have just approved a programme for strengthening industrial activity, with EUR 400 million. We have also approved a package to improve the competitiveness of industry with measures as important as the relay contract or measures for intensive industrialization, which will allow us to maintain employment for three years in our industrial plants. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayoral, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u170	Madam Minister, the first thing to say is that privatizations were a failure, and that is the first issue that we have to solve; the second is that the Constitution must read it whole, and it is very wrong to speak publicly against the Constitution and article 128, which recognizes public initiative in economic activity, so that the disqualifications made before the proposal for the rescue of privatized companies are not generally admissible for constitutionalists, much less for someone who wants to be called socialist. When situations of industrial crisis and economic crisis are encountered, European countries defend their industry. And to defend the industry, that is, when the Madrid Government and the Government of Vitoria sit down with the workers, as will happen tomorrow, one must give a message and the message is that the Naval de Sestao can be rescued, that there will be a public participation, and that the company will be carried out, because it already has a workload in order to be able to work twenty months, what is needed is political will to defend the public sector. And in Alcoa three quarters of the same. Alcoa is an American multinational. Things of life, it turns out that Alcoa decides that there are two factories to which the raw material sells within its group at the price that it wants - let's say market -, to say they lose money, companies will close here and casually - call it conspiracy theory perhaps - Alcoa's companies in the United States begin to activate. I want to introduce a gentleman named Trump, and I want to tell him that when someone sits with a multinational it's important to give him messages, and when someone sits with a multinational, you have to tell him: this company is not going to close because it is the monopoly of aluminum production in this country. [[Applauds]] And to make the transition you need to produce aluminum. Gentlemen of Alcoa, we are not going to allow the closure, and from there the negotiation begins from a position of force that defends national interests. Because if not, it can happen to us that with the dogma, as it happened with Endesa, they said: everything must be privatized, and the Spanish electricity company remained in the hands of an Italian electricity company, that is not acceptable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u171	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mayor, the Government is working with discretion and responsibility for the maintenance of industrial activity and employment in the areas affected by the crisis in Alcoa and La Naval. Article 128 of the Constitution to which you referred has been limited as you know, as a result of European Union law restricting the terms and possibilities of public sector involvement in enterprises. I want to ask you, Mr. Mayor, what companies do you think we have to rescue, all of them? Just a few? Just the Naval? Only Alcoa? Finally, tell me how many companies we have to rescue from all industrial crises, because, as you know, public intervention is not without limits and must also be subject to constitutional rules on the basis of the principles of efficiency, equity or, for example, budgetary stability. What I want to say, Mr Mayor, is that the government does not evade its responsibility for industrial crises. We are working as I was saying with discretion, with unity of action, to achieve the objective that we share, which is to defend jobs and industrial activity, and proof of that is the agreement that we signed as you know on 3 December for the plant of Vestas in León, a crisis that I know, Mr Mayor, that you have followed, that you met with the workers. But, Mr Mayor, on Monday 3rd I missed you, I could have accompanied the government, this minister that day to sign the agreement, and surely they would have applauded you as the company committees applaud you when you are going to give them solutions. The minister went to give them a solution but, Mr Mayor, you did not accompany us, and I would have liked you to accompany them. Let us work; as I say we are working with discretion, unity of action... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMAN DURING COSTS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE SOME MEASURES IN RELATION TO THE COMPLIANCE OF THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE SINGLE TRAVEL ADMINISTRATION AS PUBLIC RESPONSIBLE? [[File number 180/000889]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u174	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Finance. He asked first of all Mr Ramón Moreno Bustos, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Will the Government take any action regarding the fulfilment of the obligations of the sole Spanish Broadcasting Authority as public official?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u176	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Of course not, Mr Moreno, since you are faithfully fulfilling your duties. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Moreno. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u179	Thank you, Madam President. It would be urgent for you to really do so, Minister, because the only temporary administrator of Spanish Broadcasting does not fulfil any of your public obligations; she does not fulfil the obligation to submit to democratic control of her decisions, her parliamentary appearances are an intolerable mockery, and not only because she answers with insults to the questions or because she considers that the legitimate exercise of democracy is a very unpleasant theatre, but because she eludes with a harsh and pathetic disdain to give the slightest explanation to the questions that are asked, because she does not know or answer. The sole administrator of Radiotelevision Española does not fulfil her obligation to offer neutral, objective and independent information, because she does not know or because she sincerely does not like it. It does not comply with the obligation of public broadcasting, and it is rapidly and painfully condemning its news outlets to occupy a marginal and increasingly despicable and extravagant place for citizens. If it is an information reference continued to slide by an unstoppable decadence, from leadership to tail, no quantity or quality, minister. The same deterioration produced in Spanish Television as in Spanish National Radio. Radiotelevision Española is today only a comfortable speaker for the government and its populist, independent and Batasun partners, without the slightest respect for plurality. The sole administrator of Spanish Radiotelevision, as happens to the Government itself, is opposed to transparency and exemplaryness, and the only obligations with which the sole administrator fulfils are those imposed by the Socialist Government on her high offices: to have an instrumental society and to falsify the curriculum. That script is bound by extraordinary fidelity and care, to such an extent that it could be part of its Executive today. That is why it is not possible to prolong this critical situation further. The wreck of Spanish Radio Television is immense and it will be very expensive to repair it in the future, because the discredit is exceptional. Purging and sectarianism in equal parts are leaving a harmful mark on the corporation, as already expressed by workers and trade unions. But sadly, minister, Spanish Radio is now like the CIS of Tezanos, no one believes or trusts him either. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u180	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u181	Thank you, President. Mr. Moreno, you come here without providing any proof or evidence and try to throw down the curriculum of a renowned professional in the public and media career as Rosa María Mateo is. You try somehow to turn everything you touch into a political lodazal, since in mud you feel more comfortable. You talk about instrumental societies and you talk about heritage societies. Did you know that Mr. Catalá has a company, according to his declaration of property? Do you know about Mrs. Tejerina? Do you know of other members like Mr Méndez de Vigo, who were in the previous Executive? Don't you think this is about circumventing taxes or asking some question that is outside the law? [[Applauds]] Mr Moreno, stop being constantly trying to defile political life, because Mrs Mateo is a committed woman to the extent that she did not need to complicate her life by being at the head of the public body. He has served his country and you reproach him and try to throw his curriculum on the ground with lies. But being this serious, Mr Moreno, what seems to me to be much more serious is that you feel precedents so that in the future political life does not include people who have a career or talent, because you are doing it with the sole administrator and you have done it with members of this government. You are setting precedents for a person to think twice about serving Spain, because then he becomes the target of his lies and slanders. Let these people, who are in my government and people like Rosa María Mateo, bring freshness, talent and knowledge to political life, because it is good for democracy. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u182	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY AITOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHEN IS IT GOING TO CULMINATE [[EAJ-PNV]] THE PROCEDURE OF DELIVERY TO THE VASC INSTITUTIONS OF THE NETHERLANDS OF THE NUCLEAR CENTRAL ANTIGUM OF LEMONIZ? [[File number 180/000879]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u183	Question now by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u184	Madam Minister, I am going to ask you for an agreement quite a long time ago with the governments that have been in this legislature, in particular with regard to the land in the centre of Lemoniz, which was agreed to be transferred. This obviously requires procedures, there is a part of the land that was demanial and therefore it has had to be made a file in order to move as the rest of the land to be patrimony, but it has already occurred. What happens is that many months have passed and there are opportunities and decisions that have to be made at least as soon as possible. That is why I think we are at a time when we should speed up a loop through budgets. The Electricity Act has been amended to make this transfer even simpler, and now I know that the Basque Government is also responsible for making a move, but it is you who can best clarify how much time we are talking about, how you are seeing it and whether this is really going to happen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u185	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Your Honor, there has been a long process to be able to remove from the public domain the lands to which you refer. In addition, there has been a need to delineate these lands, as you mentioned, and even to declare unnecessary their use and protection by the Ministry of Ecological Transition. These procedures were completed on 29 October. We are therefore already working on the Basque Government's request to declare these areas as of general interest. We are in a position to tell you that in the coming weeks we will issue the resolution, at your request, so that the ownership of the land in Lemoniz will definitely pass to the Basque Government and can be used in projects to create employment and in matters of social interest that the Basque Government has to deal with. In the coming weeks you will have news and we will complete a process that has been long but that will reach good port. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u188	Thank you very much, Minister, I welcome you and I understand that, being so, the whole procedure can be completed by the end of January or early February, so that we can give a boost to the well-being of all citizens. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u189	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u190	Thank you. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER REGULAR THINK IMMIGRATION WITH ANY DETERMINED CRITERIA? [[File number 180/000891]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u191	You ask the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. With your coming, Minister, they keep coming to our shores and with the government's bandages the situation is getting worse every day. There are so many bandages that you are not even in a position to deny them: with the first Aquarius, with political reality included; change of position in the second Aquarius; concertinas; the issue of returns, and now Mr Sánchez appears and makes us a plan, proposes the plan of integration and citizenship. Will it be a new facade, Your Honor? Because we've had five months of real facades and bandits from the socialist government, five months where you, who announced the concertinas to withdraw them, now don't explain anything or say anything about those concertinas. Where's the concertina withdrawal? Where's your immigration plan? Where's your rectification so there's no effect called? Because you have provoked him, Your Honor. How is it possible that a month and a half ago they fired all the reinforcement staff of the asylum office, with 70,000 files jammed and giving two years for the appointment? Is that why they wanted to reach the government, to expel, to expel people who work for human rights in our country, Your Honor? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u193	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. I see you're recidivist and you don't seem to find out. Either I don't explain myself well or you don't understand me. First of all, I would like to thank the State Security Forces and Bodies, local authorities and NGOs for the work they are doing on migration policy. With this Government, as I have already said on more than one occasion, migration policy has returned. And you ask me how. For fighting illegal immigration, against networks and promoting legal, orderly and secure migration, and one proof is that yesterday the Global Pact on Migration was signed in Marrakech. Do you know what measures we are taking? In international politics, we are working with countries of origin and transit, fighting with them against the mafias, developing cooperation projects in those countries, generating greater control and also in return policies. You tell me about the fences, the security and the border perimeter in Ceuta and Melilla. In a few months, in the first quarter of the year you will have news in that regard to ensure less bloody measures. With regard to the asylum office, I thought you were a little proud when you talked about the asylum office, but then I'll answer a Member of Parliament from Podemos about it. However, if you want to tell me anything else, I'm sure I can add something. But you ask me how? For, in general terms, developing - I tell you again - migration policy and not generating xenophobia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u195	Mr. Rojas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, your words do not correspond to the facts. We've got 200 percent more patera arrivals since you've been in the government. Because of him, because of the effect he had called, because they've given bandages at all times and because they don't know how to rule. That's the situation we have right now, Your Honor. When you allow health tourism you are creating a so-called effect, because you do not explain how the health system will be sustained for all Spaniards. When you talk about removing the concertinas you create an effect called because you do not explain how you are going to replace them, and when you confuse economic immigrants with immigrants who have the right to asylum you create a confusion that takes advantage of the mafias. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration must be ordered, legal and linked to a job, but your Government does not go in that direction; your Government presents itself here as a goodist announcing an integration and citizenship plan. What do I mean, I asked you, Your Honor? Does that mean that we take away the word that is really in the conflict, that it's about disorderly immigration? Because that's what it's about, don't invent empty or empty words. That's what this is about, Your Honor. And the best plan you can make is to call elections and have Mr. Sánchez pack his bags, because it would be good for this country. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u197	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rojas, to your effect called - I will briefly explain it - you made deaf ears. In its last three years of government, maritime arrivals have increased by more than 300 per cent. What did you do? Nothing. [[Applauds]] All those measures that I have told you before have been taken by this Government. We also have a delegation committee on migration issues that is working on this issue. We have a coordinating authority, a control authority. We have a comprehensive reform plan for the Asylum and Refugee Office that you left on the moor, you forgot about it. But stay a little while, you'll find out when you answer, as I said, to the Member of the Podemos Group, you'll find out very clearly... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u199	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ISABEL FRANCO CARMONA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, THE COLAPSE OF THE ASYLUM AND REFUGE SYSTEM BECAUSE OF THE FAILURE OF PERSONAL AND MATERIAL MEDIA? [[File number 180/000880]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u200	Question by Mrs Isabel Franco Carmona, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u201	Thank you, President. Minister, what steps will the Government take to address the collapse of the asylum and shelter system due to the lack of personnel and material means?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u202	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u203	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I believe that Mr Rojas will also be aware not of the measures we are going to take, but of the measures we have taken. First of all, in my first appearance on 4 July before the Internal Committee of this Congress, I referred to how the asylum office had been left in oblivion, how the staff of 1992 had had their own, when few requests were received, no more than a thousand files a year. How the dossiers had multiplied by twelve in the last three years, having increased in 2017 to more than 32,000 dossiers. What did you do? Nothing. We, since we have come to the Government, have had an extraordinary public offer of 231 officials who are going to join. It is true, as you say, but in a false way - forgive me to tell Mr Rojas - that seventy-five people have had to leave, but it was a contract for a specific project, with which they could not continue. But we already have more people, ninety-seven, who have been allowed to be new interims until the positions are filled by officials. They're already formed, we've got ninety-seven. Also, due to the emergency procedure, we are working with a new computer application that can withstand the entity of the work being carried out and that will be ready by the end of next year. Work is also under way on urgent petition procedures at Barajas and El Prat airports. Finally - and I am going to spend my time, although I think it is worth it - it is cooperating and collaborating with all associations and specialist organizations, with Acnur, with the CEAR, with Amnesty International. You can ask these associations and they will tell you how the Directorate-General for Internal Policy of this Ministry of the Interior is working seriously for international protection and for giving a coherent and dignified way out in the field of human rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u204	Mrs. Franco, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u205	I thank you for your reply, Minister, but the truth is that, knowing the blocking situation in which the Asylum and Refugee Office is currently located, with more than 40,000 unsolved asylum applications, we believe that they are not doing everything that could be done. In 2015, ninety-four temporary positions were approved, as he has said, to respond to the high workload of the Asylum and Refugee Office due to the humanitarian emergency situation created through the Syrian war crisis. The People's Party knew at that time that this need was not temporary but, on the contrary, it was structural, and after three years they knew that the interims would cease and that the asylum system would be in a serious situation of collapse, as we have at the moment. The current Government's decision to convert these places into fixed ones and to extend them to 231 seems to us to be a good decision in the medium and long term, but the truth is that in the short term the asylum system remains in a state of deadlock. Minister, it is taking more than a year on many occasions to make an appointment for asylum and up to two years to resolve it. Until recently we could see queues at night in Aluche's office so we could ask for an appointment. I would like to ask you why you did not put a stop at the moment by passing a royal decree-law so that these interims could be for another twelve months and why you do not already call those 231 places leaving the interim officials who have ceased to be able to continue in their jobs to give way to all that number of asylum applications that are now paralysed. Finally, I wanted to propose to you that, in addition to creating those 231 places already, you can enable them right now, you can do it, the Public Service has told you that you can do it... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u206	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u207	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to tell you that we are already putting all these measures into place, as I said in my previous speech. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u208	Thank you very much. [[The lady]] - of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: how does the Government value that the Spanish State celebrates the 40th anniversary of the Constitution with political, exiled and political forces on the basis of the malintended use of the Constitution Tribunal? [[File number 180/000883]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u209	We're still with the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mrs Lourdes Ciuro i Buldó, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u210	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, how does the Government appreciate that the Spanish State commemorates the forty years of the Constitution with political prisoners, exiles, political prisoners on hunger strike because the Constitutional Court misuses the Spanish Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u211	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we commemorate the forty years with all the dignity of the world, because forty years ago there were neither political prisoners, nor exiles, nor refugees in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u213	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Ciuro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u214	Minister, are you sure that in Spain, in the Spanish state you can claim that we are all equal before the law? Look, I would say to you today that it is not because it turns out that the Constitutional Court, the highest interpretive body of the Spanish Constitution, has been in the drawer for more than a year with the applications for amparo lodged by the unresolved political prisoners; instead, it took twenty-four hours of a weekend to liquidate a democratically voted political agreement in the Parliament of Catalonia. It is clear that, by admitting to procedure and not resolving, what the Constitutional Court is doing is blocking the path of access to European justice, in particular to the European Court of Human Rights. This, Minister, is a genuine violation of the fundamental right to a trial without delay, and this is precisely what has caused four political prisoners today to claim, putting their own lives at risk, this lack of respect for fundamental rights by the Constitutional Court itself. Forty years ago the Spanish Constitution, Minister, and we find that your highest interpreting body is not impartial and that your interpretations of the constitutional text are increasingly at the service of a large and free one, not to mention your close relations with the Government. I remind you of the sublime episode of the judge of the Constitutional Court Conde-Pumpido with Minister Borrell to drag the government to a change of opinion on the defense of Judge Llarena in Belgium, for which we will pay almost half a million euros. Everything seems to be worth today, Minister, for the unity of Spain. Undoubtedly, with the situation in Catalonia we are seeing a genuine legal pantomime and in the middle of the anniversary of the Constitution we are experiencing an abuse of fundamental rights. From here we will claim this outrage whenever necessary and give our support to political prisoners, exiles and prisoners on hunger strike. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Minister for the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I repeat to you once again, so that at least it is clear and perhaps in the end you understand, that there have been no political prisoners in this country for 40 years; what there are are politicians who are in a situation of deprivation of liberty when they are charged with crimes of a certain or very serious nature, as you wish to understand. In a democracy, like this one you are talking about, there is something very important and obvious: the separation of powers. We differ in judicial power, executive power and legislative power, including the Constitutional Court, which formally is not judicial power. Let me also praise the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court in all these years, in more than thirty-five years, has been able to interpret our Constitution and actually generate an interpretation of our fundamental rights and freedoms within the parameters of the European Court of Human Rights. In this regard, let us leave the Constitutional Court to work. Let us differentiate between the two areas - I always like to say this - and the judicial and political spheres, which do not contaminate one another; let us be able to do so. The best way to be able to do this is for politicians, those who are in the legislative and executive branches, to continue working for all the citizens, and to remind you last week certain officials in Catalonia who told them that they had their problems, their day-to-day. In addition, I will tell you one thing: when you work day by day to solve the problems of our citizens, when it comes to working in that direction and generating social cohesion, perhaps all of us at that time will find the most appropriate way for puzzle pieces to fit together. As we are not going to get it, it is questioning what there is no doubt about: that we live in a democracy. Let me finish as I did yesterday in the Senate, let me send a reminder to those who were really political prisoners: those who suffered prison during the Franco dictatorship for thinking differently and being different, those who were different and today can even get married. [[applause from Mrs Ciuro i Buldó]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u217	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA OF CARMEN GONZALEZ GUINDA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: DOES YOUR LAW RESPONSIBLE TO THE NEEDS OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM? [[File number 180/00892]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u218	We turn to the questions addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María del Carmen González Guinda, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u219	Thank you very much, President. Minister, being you, as I am sure you are, aware of the continuous changes in our society over the past decade, are you aware of the importance of an educational law to respond to those changes?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u220	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u221	Yes, Your Honor, I am aware, and the amendment that we are proposing now goes precisely to that end. We're gonna do it and we're gonna do it right with your help. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u223	Thank you, President. Minister, we now find ourselves in fact having changed our society in recent years, but the PSOE, after unilaterally lifting itself from the state pact for education, presents us with a Crab Bill, which takes over the LOE, the failed LOE, its organic law of 2006. The results of LOE you and I know very well: early school drop-out rates of 26% and harmful PISA reports. Well, Minister, let us resume the principle of compresivity, which has already been banished in the countries of our environment. In Germany the routes start at the age of eleven, in France at the age of fifteen, in the Netherlands at the age of twelve. Its law also re-demonstrates the assessments that are so necessary for the transparency of the system. The high school model is transferred to the baccalaureate, allowing students to obtain the baccalaureate with a suspended subject. You, in favour of this measure, say that it is taken by some countries in our environment, but we know, Minister, that there is a baccalaureate test in these countries to obtain that title. Minister, society was demanding a law of consensus, a law that faced the challenges of a dynamic country, a country that agreed on topics in curriculum, languages, STEM, access and professional career of the teacher; a law designed for the next generations, not the next elections. However, you have the boldness to present this law only with the support of your government partners who, as you very well know, can both applaud you and the next minute spit you out. [[Mrs. Surra Spadea: Hey, please!]] However, Minister, do you consider that your law today responds to the needs of the Spanish educational system? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u224	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor. [[Protests by Mrs. Surra Spadea]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u225	Your Honor, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u226	But it can't be!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u227	Madam Member, I call you to order!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u228	But have you heard what he said?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u229	Madam Member, I call you to order! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u230	Yes, Your Honor, we are going to make a law that is important enough to improve the situation of the Spanish education system that you have left quite wounded. Look at the number of problems that Lomce has raised; among others, the indefinite suspension of the entry into force of certain aspects such as dual degrees, because you did double degrees for the ESO; or the holding of revalidations after primary and after compulsory secondary education; or the system of access to the University, where foreigners who had not completed the revalidation themselves could enter before; or the departure of the basic FP, an absolutely worthless educational program; or, for example, the increase in 37.7% of repeaters as a result of secondary education by courses and not by cycles; or, for example, the heterogeneity and the increase in thousands of textbooks by their specific characterization in the subjects of free configuration, specific and trunkal. Your Honor, the Lomce has generated problems that did not have the Spanish education system. We will urgently correct those problems that you raised with the Lomce, which broke all sorts of consensus in the Spanish education system; we will solve them and we will also move forward. And you're very wrong, ma'am. When the European countries are making progress precisely in separating as much understanding as possible, the separation in the system of young people and young women, from the conditions of origin, you are defending the opposite. In Germany even the Länder are correcting this situation. Understanding must go as far as it can, at the age of fourteen or fifteen... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u231	Minister, your time is up. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WILL THE GOVERNMENT GUARANTE THE USE OF SPANISH IN THE COLLEGES OF ALL THE NATIONAL TERRITORY? [[File number 180/000893]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u232	We turn to the question of Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u233	Mrs Celaá, families are saying no to their educational reform. You are reaping many negative headlines, but, far from rectifying, you insist on making statements that worry us very much. Two weeks ago in this House you compared the linguistic immersion imposed by the nationalists with the immersion that Spanish children do when they go to England to learn English, and yesterday in the Senate you compared the need for children in Spain to know Spanish with the need for them to know Arabic, Russian or Chinese. What is the reason for this hispanophobia? What is the reason for the government's hispanophobia? It is because of the mortgage you have with the nationalists and the independenceists. Mrs Celaá, your party partners in the Valencian Community - my community - and the Balearic Islands are importing a model that has been given in Catalonia and that has turned out to be a failure. This model, where they give two hours in Spanish, two hours in English and the rest of hours in Catalan. [[shows a schedule of classes in which you read: 'Immersion Obligatory']] However, its nationalist and independent partners, those who impose this model in public schools, take their children to schools where this model is imposed and operates, the trilingual model, with the same hours in Spanish, English and Catalan. [[shows a schedule of classes in which you read: 'Trilingual Model']] [[Applauds]] To you, who fill your mouth talking about equality, I ask you: what model do you think makes children more competitive? Tell me: what model do you think makes children more competitive? [[Show both pictures]] Mrs Celaá, in her reform proposes that it be the autonomous governments that decide what proportion of co-official language and Spanish is given in schools. Correct; you're wrong. Do you intend to rectify it? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u234	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u235	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, the question I had was: will the government guarantee the use of Spanish in schools throughout the country? And the answer I give to Mrs Hoyos is: yes, exactly as my predecessors and the whole Spanish education system have been doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u236	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Hoyo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u237	I will tell you what your predecessor was doing: the same as my parliamentary group and the rest of the Government, working to try to achieve an educational pact, because education is a state policy and education conditions the present and future of any country, including Spain. I therefore suggest that the next day you come to this House, you leave pride in one of your houses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u238	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u239	Thank you, Vice President. With all humility, Mrs Hoyo - for you to learn too - as you are always talking about the Constitution, I feel obliged to read you an article of the Constitution, the same one that I have defended with regard to the Spanish, the co-official languages and the rest of the languages, including the foreign language or languages that also live in Spain, but not with the same obligation. [[laughs]] I will read it to you: 'The Spanish is the official Spanish language of the State. All Spaniards have a duty to know it and the right to use it.' That is our legislation, the legislation that we have always promoted. '2: The other Spanish languages shall also be official in the respective Autonomous Communities in accordance with their Statutes'. [[Mrs. Hoyo Juliá makes negative gestures]] That is the legislation we have always promoted. And three, the richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection. This is what you don't seem to respect. You say my predecessor tried, and well he said he should have tried, because getting what you wanted, he shouldn't have, because listen, how did you do it? With a Spanish box they couldn't put because they were incompetent? How did they do it? With the Spaniard of the thirty-eighth additional provision giving particular classes at some sites that the Constitutional Court repealed? How? How? With Spanish legislation, following the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, exactly with the same Spanish legislation that we have and that we are trying to have every day better but with the guarantees of the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy: defense of the Spanish and defense of the autonomous languages in their respective territories. If you want something different, say so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u240	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: DO YOU THINK THAT EQUALITY AND NON-DISCRIMINATION BY TERRITORY IN THE EDUCATIONAL FIELD ARE GUARANTEEED? [[File number 180/000885]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u241	We turn to the question of Mr Antonio Cantó García del Moral, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u242	Minister, either you comply with your partners or you comply with the Constitution, or you guarantee once and for all the freedom and equality of all Spaniards or you continue to give in to the Torra of the Slovenian way of the dead so as to follow another quartet of time in La Moncloa. What are you guys gonna do?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u243	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u244	The Government guarantees the equality of all Spanish women in all places of its territory, as provided for in the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, which are a block of constitutionality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Singing, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u246	Minister, shielding the Basque coupon with the People's Party you do not guarantee the equality of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Provoking that in some regions there are twice as many resources per student as in others is not working for the equality of the Spaniards. By voting against our elimination of the language requirement, you are voting against the freedom of the Spaniards to work wherever they want and, by the way, it also prevents the Spaniards from having the best services. You, minister, said that linguistic immersion was like sending children to England. Look, today she was rereading an interview with a woman who had just spent a few years in England and who recognized that her children were now giving more hours of Spanish a week in England than in Ibiza. Does that seem normal to you? Does the interview with which we had breakfast this morning seem normal, in which a teacher from Gerona, who, by the way, gives Spanish language classes in Catalan - I suppose you will like it - said that the linguistic rights of a boy from Toledo in Gerona are the same as those of a Bulgarian? Do you think it's normal? Does it seem normal for the Catalan University to pursue and harass the young people of Catalan Civil Society? Does it seem normal for a boy to be beaten in Vitoria for defending the unity of Spain, that is, for defending the Constitution? Why do they still do nothing against indoctrination? Why do they continue to allow yellow bonds to occupy public spaces, also in education? Why do we continue to give in, Minister, the competence of something as important as education to the Republican Left? Seven, three percent of them?* or the nationalists of Compromís in the Valencian Community? Why when parents complain you tell them to stand up or go to private, which is the same solution that the People's Party proposed? [[Butterflies]] [[Butterflies]] Minister, you, the elite, can take your children to England and, as Montilla or Mas did, to the Licée Français or the German College, but Spanish middle class workers cannot and should not, because the Constitution guarantees them that any of the co-official languages are used without discrimination. Stop complying with Torra, those of three percent and Compromís and comply with the Constitution, comply with the Spaniards at once, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Singing. Mr Cantó, I just want to remind you of what the President was doing this morning and has been done on other occasions, how will the word you have spoken of be recorded in the Journal of Sessions?*............................................................. [[Coupler]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u248	Thank you, Mr Cantó, for your capacity for diversity, because it certainly has nothing to do with everything you have mentioned here with six months of government already and the educational proposal that this government put on the table. Absolutely nothing, Mr. Singing; absolutely nothing. That is to say, we condemn the beating of that student of the Faculty of Vitoria, we condemn it absolutely and we want the Spanish language, the co-official languages and a foreign language to be taught. Look, with humility, I'm a philosopher, I know linguistics. And you know what immersion is? It is simply a matter of highlighting and transferring contents of certain subjects into the language that we want to work at that time. Do you know what the effect is? That the contents are transferred without any problem from one language to another. That's the immersion. The problem of immersion is no other, the problem is yours. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]] What you are doing, yes, is a very rapid transition between Catalan immersion or Basque immersion, indoctrination and in this case the Catalan conflict. And that is a fallacy that you are extending urbi et orbi. [[Applauds]] I ask you for scientific precision and rigour that you blur the issues and that when you want to talk about beaten students - because that is what I have experienced - in the faculties of the Basque Country do so and you will have the right answer. And when you want to talk about immersion, do you, too, because you know that immersion is constitutional and absolutely legitimate? Diving is nothing more than teaching content through a language, the one you want to work at that time. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]] Excuse me, I'm talking right now. And the immersion in Spain to be well-accommodated only has to have one condition and is that there is also compensation in the other languages of the State. Well, when we want to talk about it, right, but not all at once. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u249	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN AINA VIDAL SÁEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNISH THEM, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUES THE LAST CIFRES OF UNEMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/00884]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u250	Questions to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. 7 * Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[See the President's speech on page 65.]] Question by Mrs Aina Vidal Sáez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u251	How does the government rate the latest unemployment figures?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u252	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u253	Thank you, Madam President. I hope the voice respects me a little bit because I have pharyngitis. Your Honor, the Government's assessment is moderately positive as unemployment fell in November. Note that in the last two years unemployment had increased in this month. Does that mean we're in line with the current situation? The answer is no. You know that there are still more than 3 250 000 people in Spain who do not find a job, with a special impact on the most vulnerable, women, young people and long-term unemployed people who, of course, are given absolute priority by the Government to help find a job. With the data in hand I have to say that in the last 12 months unemployment has fallen by more than 221,000 people, with an annual rate of decrease of 6.4%, and there is a figure that seems interesting to us and that the indefinite contracts within which there is still a lot of precariousness - have increased by 15.7%. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Vidal, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u255	I understand that you have to defend your work and I thank you in this case for your unconformity, but you know perfectly well that this rate of creation is absolutely insufficient and that in this case an absolutely unacceptable precariousness is also being created. We have a recovery with mud feet, seasonal, precarious, volatile and in addition to very low added value, and look at a fact that is very important: the unemployment registered this November drops by one month 1836 people, but the number of members of Social Security does not only increase but falls in all regimes, minister. Precarity and uncertainty are not being reduced, they are worsening. And, look, because inequality and poverty are a powerful solvent of democracy. They have already been in government for six months and are slow, they have presented a youth employment plan - okay - but one doubt, minister: How are they going to protect young people without touching labour legislation? How? And not just the young people, anyone, because we have a job market that's been shredded. And there is an urgency and it is obvious: people need work, but quality work, minister. Our group voted to invest in restoring dignity to people and overcoming the precarious policies of the People's Party. Please, let's not miss this opportunity. It already repeals labour reform and pension reform. Your group knows that and this House knows that too, they are two zombies waiting for the courage of your government. Mobilizations and unions have already defeated them in the streets and in businesses, it is dead legislation, and this Congress must ratify these conquests that have already occurred. Is it not true that the negotiations with the PDECAT that you maintain on labour reform are tying your hands? Isn't it true that they are trying to please the Catalan right by giving up irrefutable? I also see the majorities of this House, but I wonder, are you going to regulate unjustifiable outsourcing, are you going to recover collective bargaining, are you going to repeal the prevalence of company agreements, are you going to ratify the convention on the rights of domestic workers? What are you waiting for? The labor reform not only precarious; it generates uncertainty and fear and, in addition, dynamite the social contract and the generational pact, minister. The State is the guarantor of this contract, of the rights and duties it entails for all parties, but the last governments have overturned this balance, this balance. This cannot be a lost legislature in the area of labour rights. Minister, comply with your commitments and we will regain the rights of the workers, and please do not do so with the Catalan right. Thank you. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Vidal, do not worry that this government is very clear that it is working on the path of recovery of rights lost during the governments of the People's Party. All the issues that you have raised are currently being reviewed in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, are being discussed in the Bureau for Social Dialogue and, of course, I am convinced that these reforms will go ahead. As you know, a majority is needed in this House to move forward, and a number of parliamentary groups, including the PDECAT, must be taken into account to obtain that majority. So, of course, we will move forward with those reforms. The same is not true of the Youth Employment Plan, but I hope that this shock plan will begin to produce immediate results. Fortunately, we also have a total struggle - and I agree with you that this fight has to be fought - against job insecurity, a fight against job fraud, social security fraud. We have in progress the Master Plan for a Dignified Work, which is beginning to yield results and which will involve a reinforcement of material and human resources of the Labour Inspectorate. We are clear that progress must be made as quickly as possible. It is true that we have only been half a year, and I think that in half a year, little by little, some things have been done. Much remains to be done and we look forward to your support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. - of Mrs Eloy Suárez Lamata, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister of Economy and Enterprise: will you resign the Minister because you lied in the Chamber saying that Europe had authorized a separate sign to which you actually authorized it? [[File number 180/000894]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u259	Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise. Question by Mr Eloy Suárez Lamata, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u260	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, at this point you are aware that all your credit earned for a long time has squandered it in a government that is the worst in history, even though you described it as stellar; a government that lives - and today we have seen it again with President Sánchez - in an unreal situation, that fabricates Mr Tezanos in that CIS that we all pay every month; a government that presents accounts that do not satisfy the interests of the Spaniards, but that is a budget agreed in a prison to satisfy the independenceists and their far-left partners. And you are a very important part, since those accounts sent them to Europe against the mandate of this House when it rejected the deficit. That is serious, but it is also that you told Europe that you had the endorsement of the independent authority, which was not true, and you in this House allowed yourself to say that the European Commission was seeing with good eyes the accounts that Spain had sent. Well, on November 21st, we had the answer. Europe said no to debt, no to deficit, no to structural reform; in short, it slapped public accounts. I do not know if you remember a phrase in which you said that with the numbers you do not play, let alone with the credibility of this country called Spain. Therefore, I ask you, since you have played with her, when you intend to resign. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u261	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u262	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for taking an interest in my intentions. The truth is that, for the moment, I am very pleased with the performance of my role as Minister of Economy and Enterprise, and my intention is to continue working to contribute everything that can to improve the well-being of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u263	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Suárez Lamata, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u264	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, asking him to resign is no coincidence. The President of the Government, when he was in the opposition, asked for the resignation of any member of the Government; except for the lions, I believe he asked everyone in this House. I want to tell you one thing: to be a minister of economics you need to be credible and you are not credible right now. You had to have sent Europe a spending ceiling and what you sent was a homeless expenditure. You in Europe no longer have any credibility, but where you have less credibility it is in this country and I will explain why. That budget that you intend to adopt requires a significant increase in taxes, and what cannot be done is that you demand an effort from the Spanish when it turns out that you, through an instrumental society, do not pay your taxes. You're not in a position to give lessons from anything. You're not in a position to stay in the government for one more minute, and that's why I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Suárez Lamata, your time is up. [[Applauds]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u266	Thank you very much. Whenever I refer to fiscal matters, whether in parliamentary or outside the House, I do so with the utmost rigour. Those who did not meet the European commitments were the People's Party Government, which did not hesitate to make a tax reform when we had a public deficit of more than 5%, a public debt close to 100% of GDP and put Spain on the verge of a sanction by our Community partners. On this issue of accounts we have spoken exhaustively, so has the President of the Government today, and I believe that at this point everyone is clear about the commitment to the fiscal discipline of our Government, but also our commitment to social policies to reduce the imbalance and inequality in our country, which is one of the great scourges that is keeping us back. As I have already spoken very extensively about this and I believe that what is clear is that it is in your hand to stop practicing an obstructive and blocking policy and to have here the real political debate about what the Spaniards want, what the Spaniards need, what fiscal policy we need to develop, I will take advantage of it to make a little more general reflection. I came to Spain six months ago for commitment to our country, to do everything possible to improve the lives of our fellow citizens, for true patriotism. [[Rumors]] At this time I have seen only obstructions, attacks and criticisms by the People's Party, even going against the interests of our country possibly. I think that very well we should be doing so when they are already resorting to the absolutely unfounded personal attacks, distortions and infuses. In this sense, and now that I see that we are now reaching the stage of insults, I would like to refer to a phrase that I read the other day on a street near Atocha that seems to me to come to my hair: insults are like bullets, they only hurt when they are right and, ladies and gentlemen, you don't give one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARTINEZ-MAILLO TORUBIO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF SCIENCE, INNOVATION AND UNIVERSITIES: IS THE MINISTER OF SCIENCE, INNOVATION AND UNIVERSITIES OF THE HUELGA OF STUDENTS AND PROFESERS IN CATALUONE? [[File number 180/000895]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u268	Question to the Minister for Science, Innovation and Universities. Question by Mr Fernando Martínez-Mallo Toribio, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mr Martinez-Maillo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u269	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome, Minister, to Congress, because you are the minister who least appears or lets himself be questioned by the opposition. You're very slippery. We have asked for his appearance in the Commission and he does not come; in the last urgent inquiry in relation to his heritage society the Minister of Finance had to go out to the rescue. By the way, speaking of the heritage society, you will recognize that we were right when we said that you made a heritage society to defraud, to pay less to the Treasury. In fact, he has had to regularize his situation with the Treasury. That's right, all of this we know after you presume before the Spaniards that he was a great Spaniard because he was the one who paid the Hacienda the most in an absolutely altruistic way. He has not asked for forgiveness or excuses for laughing at all the Spaniards. And now we know he doesn't find out. They ask him the other day about the university strike and he says, "Well, I haven't been to Barcelona or read it. Do you think a response of that nature is normal? Look, we recognize your professional prestige, but that doesn't give you the patent of course not to assume your responsibilities as a minister, if you have learned, to date, that you are a minister, that you are to be seen. That is why we ask you: do you know what is happening in Spain in relation to universities and science? Have you heard what happened in Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u270	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u271	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Martinez-Maillo, this is the style there is now. [[Laughter]] There's a lot of bubbles circulating on the Internet and the truth is it's better not to believe them. We must have a lot of responsibility in using these seats, so that one does not come later with parliamentary initiatives to urge the United States Government to return to us the Martians who have or some of those. There are many bubbles running that are all unfounded and I'm not going to get into each of them in one minute and fifty-eight seconds that I have left. All these are completely false things or speculations. With regard to universities, of course, I have not stopped meeting with representatives of universities. I've been with the students, next Monday I'm going to be back, and of course I'm aware of the many problems there are and that we have to solve and that I'm trying to solve. I don't know, I could tell you a lot, for example, on Monday we made a very big breakthrough with regard to the Staff Regulations and we have many measures in our portfolio. I was in Brussels, I hadn't read it, and I don't usually talk about things that I have no idea about, in which perhaps I don't agree with any of this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u272	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Martinez-Maillo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u273	Minister, the truth is that I reaffirm myself in everything I have said. I don't know what bubbles you mean, what does El País, El Mundo, the digitals publish? What do you mean, "bull"? Because it would be good for you to clear it up. Management at the head of his ministry has been completely null and void. Where's the law on universities? We have offered him a pact to make a new law of universities and he has completely despised it. We have also offered him a pact with regard to science and we know absolutely nothing and, of course, we know nothing of that increase in investment to 2% of GDP which, by the way, was proposed by the Socialist Party when it was in the opposition. That's right, you've made a single decision that we know of, and it's to pressure the Rector of Menéndez Pelayo to submit his resignation only and exclusively because he was appointed by the People's Party. Pure sectarianism; we did not expect it from you, Minister. So, please, take your responsibility. He's a minister, even though he hasn't found out. It's not worth saying: I was going through there and so on; and victimism, listen, that Calimer syndrome that you have, really, is not worth it. Please assume your responsibility because your credit is running out. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u274	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez-Maillo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u275	I will be, of course, by covenants; but it is completely false that they have offered me a covenant, the only thing they have offered is a subcommission or something like that. Of course we will be behind many measures that we are trying to support. We have very advanced pacts, as I say, in research teaching staff, in the renewal of university degrees, in the internationalization of universities. We are learning everything, we are talking to everyone and the only way to build a pact for a university law is, of course, to talk to all actors, including of course the directors, students, the autonomous communities. It is much more difficult and has not been tried in the last ten or fifteen years, leaving me a little more time and we will do it among all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u276	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u277	At the end of the control session, we proceeded to deal with the appeals addressed to the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence because I don't have a very good voice. Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra on measures for the integration of non-regularized immigrants residing in the Spanish State and their families. For your defense, Mrs. Surra Spadea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, migration is part of the future of human history. From the very origins of man, population groups have moved from one place to another in search of more food, better land or a more benign climate. Migration movements have often also occurred as a result of persecution and war. Today, the first cause of immigration to Europe is the permanent plundering of natural resources, which leave countries originating in immigrants by European capitals in misery and war. Paradoxically, natural resources travel on five-star ships, while immigrants, their original owners, have to travel in sad pateras. Migration flows in today's world are very intense and respond to two fundamental causes, economic or political, and are directed towards countries in need of labour. There are ILO forecasts that, until at least 2050, European countries will need immigrant labour. It was not by chance that United Nations member countries met a few days ago to try to manage migration flows in a comprehensive and international manner. Nor was it a coincidence that most of these countries, more than one hundred and fifty, had adopted a global pact for migration, the first such agreement, and I am pleased that Spain was one of them. Spain, instead of having a State policy against migration, has opted in recent years for the Aliens Act and, instead of favouring emigration as a State, makes the benefits to be borne by employers and large capital. The precarious work that this law achieves and that encourages the submerged economy leads even to the lower wages of other workers. It is clear that the availability of undocumented workers willing to work at almost any cost in order to survive and to obtain an employer who makes a contract of employment that facilitates the obtaining of a residence permit has a negative effect on the salary of some sectors of the population, especially those who are characterized by more manual work, in addition to having fewer social security contributors, even in order to be able to finance pensions and to ensure the increase that is permanently matched with the CPI. Let us remove the blindfold, accept reality, put the points on the ies and have an open debate without hypocrisy. It is not immigrants who make wages precarious, it is not immigrants who take jobs away from the Spanish, it is the Aliens Act designed for capital, for business and for the unscrupulous boss; an Aliens Act that is not designed to organize migratory flows or to solve a social reality of now and of the future; an Aliens Act that does not take into account today and tomorrow; an Aliens Act that, far from solving problems, creates and serves as a catalyst for the criminalization of immigration by the media. The media campaign and false rumours do the rest so that it is erroneously believed that because of immigration there are fewer jobs, that immigrants take all the social aid, that they will invade the country or that they will change their identity or that an effect will be made called if the necessary measures are legislated and contrary to this inhuman Aliens Act. Media campaigns and false rumors that sow fear, panic and that discourse, the discourse of fear, which is far from reality, lies in the lobotomized mass that blinds from wings to the most reactionary right. Fear buys votes. The extreme right uses these racist campaigns to grow in Europe and Spain because democrats have not been able to respond with truth to immigration, because democrats have not been able to manage migration flows without remixes, without ties, without compassion and without taking into account that immigration is not a problem, but a necessity. It is easier to implement a media campaign by presenting the immigrant and the different as the cause of all the evils of humanity in order to avoid looking for the real culprits of the cuts, of the lack of work, of the lack of housing, of the lack of social assistance, etc., and thus create a public opinion unfavourable to the phenomenon of immigration and also towards the migrants themselves. The enemy does not come as a patera, the enemy is inside, in the capital, in those who spread the discourse of fear, in the corrupt, in a law of alienation designed to divide and lobotomize and in a law of alienation that is not at the service of social reality. And let's not cheat on the loner. In Andalusia, particularly in El Ejido, with 32% immigration, which is the cheap labour force in the area, won the ultra-right for its racist campaign, not to mention Catalonia, because of the problems with Catalonia they all talked about. In the rest of Europe the extreme right speaks not of Catalonia but of immigration, to win the vote of the uninformed. In Andalusia the Socialist Party gave the speech on immigration to the racist far right for fear of the electoral scourge of the PP and Citizens, and we have already seen the consequences: in El Ejido they remained in fourth place. Today I am going to refer to the immigration situation which has been here for a long time and which is going to remain because, let us not deceive ourselves, nor will we let them go, out of dignity and shame we cannot throw them out, nor can we do so because we need immigrants, men, women and children who are already part of our citizenship, but who have not been able to solve their administrative situation and this difficulty makes it impossible for them to be fully involved in work, education and even politics. Let us not continue to create problems, let us solve them, let us integrate them, let us think about the future, let us accept once and for all that immigration is not a problem, it is a necessity. It is a necessity for more than 400,000 foreigners who are in Spain today and who have been without papers for years. It's been a long time since they stopped being immigrants. If we stick to the etymology of the word, they were, are and will remain immigrants, but how can we call immigrants those who have been rooted in Spain for years and years and paying taxes as already do those who have papers or those who are Spanish? Spain has again recorded a historical peak of ageing, reaching 120 % in 2017. One hundred and twenty older than sixty-four years are counted for each hundred and fewer than sixteen years, according to the latest data from the National Institute of Statistics. Here are the data, the figures that speak for themselves: Spain has just registered the lowest number of births since 1941. In order to secure pensions, it is necessary to ensure occupation, the stability of the growth of the occupation, the quality of this occupation, but essentially a return of urgency of the pension fund must be faced. As an example and for the benefit of all, I will refer to what would be a temporary modification of a precept of foreign legislation. Persons who are eligible for work authorization on an exceptional basis of social roots must have three years of continuous stay in the pattern, a one-year employment contract and a report proving that they are rooted. In Catalonia in the last three years, from 2015 to 2017, some 20,000 people, around 7000 per year, obtained work permits. We have calculated that in an exceptional and temporary process, where the stay of three to one year is changed and the requirement for a contract of employment of one year to three months is changed, there would be at least 20,000 more people in a position to be regularised, calculating downwards. The effect of this exceptional regularisation would entail a minimum income for the social security coffers of EUR 9 000 000 and a minimum income of EUR 20 000 000 for the financial coffers. Can you imagine the figures for all of Spain? Faced with this reality that we have there, around the corner, in a society where we have more and less elderly and fewer births, what to do? We have a young, immigrant workforce of people who have been here for years and have never achieved their roles or people who have lost them as a result of a restrictive Aliens Act. Can we call those people who have been immigrants here for years? No, they're no longer immigrants, it's the papers or the lack of their possession that makes them immigrants. Immigrants? But if it's been years between us, with us, people who want to work and who don't come to suck from the boat, as Vox's racist far right claims. It is already necessary to formalize a new extraordinary process of regularization, which would be nothing new either for the PSOE or for the People's Party. I am not proposing anything new or inviting your ladies and gentlemen to make inventions or propose meaningless formulas. With the People's Party, in 1996, a total of 21,294 foreigners were regularized through an extraordinary process of regularization. In 2005, with the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, more than 100,000 foreigners obtained their papers, also through an extraordinary process of regularization. In 2005, the employment rate increased by 4.8 per cent, compared to 4 per cent in 2004 and 3.9 per cent in 2003. The extraordinary processes of regularization have become temporary lifesavers and far from causing problems have solved many of them. Immigration is key to population and economic growth, as it generates employment for the entire population, as reflected in all these processes so far. The Socialist Government has a great historic opportunity and the future will reward those who make this decision and those who join it. The Secretary of State herself, whom you have reappointed, who knows the subject very well and who has been at the forefront of the last regularization, knows very well that it is possible. I mean, I'm not talking about experiments or proposing something you don't know. She herself has indicated in statements that migration policy also needs to recover and strengthen the integration policies that have been applied in the past for those already living in Spain. And it has announced the demand for the Fund to be activated again for the integration and reception that will allow autonomous governments and municipalities to foster coexistence, avoid rejection and silence voices that incite fear. Ladies and gentlemen, before the speech of fear and hatred, before the?voxes' who divide and sow panic, before the ultra-right who lobotomizes with lies, let us speak clearly, let us tell the truth. It is our obligation to solve a problem and we can do so; we need it to be done not for the benefit of a few but for an ageing society that needs immigration. It is enough to spread the discourse of fear, the discourse of hatred; let us be sensible. Do not think today of doing an extraordinary process of regularization would be foolish, it would be a political irresponsibility because we owe it to ourselves, because we need people to work, because it is our moral obligation with these people that is not invisible, because they are out there, outside this Chamber; because they are here, here within the Chamber, in the houses of many of us cleaning or helping us with our elders. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u279	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u280	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for your intervention, Your Honor. Believe me, I share your interest in the integration of immigrants into our country; I share it and, of course, my entire Government, led by its President. This Government believes that it is not so much a question of integrating the irregular immigrant population but of ensuring that all those who come to our country do so by legal means and are fully integrated. I mean, we're betting on an orderly, secure, legal immigration. Your Honor, immigration is a phenomenon, as you have just said, inevitable and also necessary and positive. You have heard me say on more than one occasion - and you have also said it here this afternoon - that it is as ancient as the history of humanity. Unavoidable by the presence of various causes that you have also highlighted: war conflicts, environmental migration, an increasingly globalised society and, above all, by increasing inequality. In short, there is a runaway effect of misery, disease, political persecution and war confrontations. It is also a necessary phenomenon because the demographic evolution of our societies points this out. According to the report on population forecasts published by Airef last October, Spain needs the average arrival of 270 000 net annual immigrants by 2050. The International Monetary Fund has also warned our country that maintaining the Social Security System will require the arrival of more than 5 million immigrants by 2050. Of course we have a challenge, which is to raise the birth rate. The data you have also commented on are worrying, the lowest birth rate since there are records and a great aging of the population. Finally, it is a tremendously positive phenomenon for all the parties involved in it, of course for migrants and their countries of origin, but also for the countries of destination. The positive effect of immigration on the Spanish economy is more than contrasted. According to a report by the economic office of the Caixa, 30 per cent of GDP growth since the mid-1990s and the first decade of the 21st century was a result of the arrival of immigrants, an effect that climbed to 50 per cent between 2000 and 2005. That is why Spain ratified the United Nations-sponsored Global Compact on Secure, Regular and Orderly Migration last Monday in Marrakech because of its commitment to regular, secure and orderly immigration. This is a historic agreement that constitutes the first real effort to build the new migration regime of the twenty-first century, and our country, ladies and gentlemen, will be at the forefront of its defence and its implementation. We understand that it is now more than ever essential to establish a global governance of human mobility; the times that go by demand it given the rise of racist and xenophobic explosions that are trying to bring our society back to a climate of confrontation that is tremendously negative. And that commitment to legal immigration also leads my ministry to work on the development of pilot projects and the substantial improvement of existing projects. Among them, we will approve this month the order to regulate the collective management of contracts in origin for the year 2019. The order, in line with the objectives set out in the said global pact, allows the development of circular immigration processes, legal, orderly and secure immigration, beneficial to all parties. However, Your Honor, this government's vocation to promote legal and orderly immigration is not incompatible with the struggle we have to fight against irregular immigration that is harmful to all parties involved. It harms immigrants themselves, who are deprived of their rights, subjected to labour exploitation processes, used by human trafficking networks, relegated to social invisibility and to the status of second-class citizens. It also harms the countries of origin, which are deprived of remittances and of circular mobility to enable the productive flow of wealth and knowledge, and it also harms our country, because fewer taxes and contributions are paid, situations of unfair competition between companies are generated and social cohesion is undoubtedly difficult. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept irregular immigration as a rule. We are obliged to put an end to this irregular immigration, because it runs counter to the assumptions that of course allow us to enter or remain legally in our country and that is also required by European legislation. However, on these sometimes painful expulsion processes, I would like to make it very clear that any expulsion, any return must be carried out in strict compliance with the legislation in force. This is individualized, with guarantee of legal assistance and, where appropriate, with an interpreter to care for the person concerned at that time. I would also like to make it very clear that every immigrant who resides among us, regardless of his or her administrative situation, holds a number of rights which this Government undertakes to respect scrupulously, as demanded by our Constitutional Court, among others in its judgment 236/2007 of 7 November, concerning migration matters. In this judgment, the High Court points out that foreigners are holders of all the rights which the Constitution does not expressly and exclusively reserve to Spanish nationals, as well as of any rights which may be granted to them on the basis of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These rights are therefore recognized and belong to individuals in respect of them, regardless of their nationality and administrative status. Among other things, and in a paradigmatic way, irregular immigrants enjoy the ownership of key rights in their integration process and also in the configuration of our welfare State, such as the right to education and the right to health. In this regard, I would like to remind you that one of the first commitments made by President Pedro Sánchez in his intervention in the motion of censure of 31 May, which was implemented last July, is the restoration of universal access to the National Health System broken by the Government of the People's Party by withdrawing the health card for irregular immigrants, in what constituted a radically unjust and unworthy measure, negative for immigrants and also for public health. It is one of the measures taken by this Government that I feel, believe me, personal and especially most proud of because it demonstrates a clear will to protect the rights of immigrants. In this regard let me turn to our saying: We must not only preach but also give wheat. Few measures, ladies and gentlemen, have a more direct impact on the proper integration of the immigrant population than on facilitating their access to public health. This Government is therefore going to facilitate the exercise of all constitutionally recognized rights to immigrants regardless of their administrative status, which does not mean that we are currently considering any process of regularization. It is true that in 2004 the biggest extraordinary process of regularization of immigrants registered in Spain was carried out with great success, but it must not be forgotten that it responded to a very different scenario from the current one, a scenario defined by the huge irregular immigration exchange left by the Government of the People's Party and by the lack of legal channels to regularize the situation of these people. Alongside this, we then saw a job market in good times, with minimum unemployment rates and many unfilled jobs, already abandoned by a higher qualification of Spanish workers. In view of this need, the social partners were also asking us for an answer. The situation is very different now. At present, which was not the case before, the law articulates sufficient avenues for persons in an irregular situation to apply under certain circumstances for a residence permit without the need to return to their country of origin. These four exceptional circumstances - you have commented on some of them - are: international protection, humanitarian reasons, collaboration with administrative, judicial, police and prosecutorial authorities, and, the most important of them, rooting for social, family and labour reasons; measures put in place, as you will know, by the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero through the regulations for the development of the Organic Law on the Rights and Freedoms of Foreigners in Spain and their social integration. Those who have entered our country irregularly will therefore be able to avail themselves of one of the exceptional mechanisms of regularization that I have just mentioned; if not, the corresponding return file will have to be initiated. In short, Your Honor, what is at stake is to guarantee universal rights to all people in our country and to work for a legal and fully integrated immigration. To achieve such full integration is a priority objective of the migration policy of this Government as it has been in all socialist Governments. Since 1994, they have adopted the first plan for the social integration of immigrants. There have been a few years of paralysis and neglect on the part of the People's Party Government in which this integration completely disappeared from the political discourse. In this regard, let me tell you what the two essential instruments of our integration policy are going to be. First of all, we are drawing up a new strategic plan for citizenship and integration - the President announced the other day - so that integration will once again be part of the public agenda, again involving both civil society and all public and private institutions that want to cooperate in it. Four will be the basic principles of this strategy: equality, citizenship, interculturality and social inclusion. On the basis of these principles, the Government will manage the diversity of the immigration phenomenon and introduce it into all its public policies: education, health, employment, housing, women, participation, coexistence, neighbourhood, children. As for the state of development of this strategy, the Secretariat of State for Migration is engaged in a process of consultations that will lead to a strategic guidance document on integration to be completed by 31 March next year. Secondly, because the citizenship plan without a fund that supports its policies would be a mere declaration of intent, we will reactivate the State Fund for the Integration of Immigrants, eliminated by the Government of the People's Party, in order to collaborate with the autonomous communities and municipalities in this integration goal. The commitment of this Government is to replenish this fund in the coming budgets and to do so sufficiently, so that it will also mobilize additional funds from these public administrations. These two instruments, from the Secretariat of State for Migration, are financed through calls for grants to non-profit social entities, programmes promoting the social and labour integration of immigrants, and from applicants for international protection covering various aspects: comprehensive reception projects for basic needs and support for the integration of immigrants; projects co-financed with the European Social Fund in the field of employment; and projects financed by the FAMI, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. These are projects, among others, aimed at acquiring basic knowledge of the language, history, institutions, order, culture, framework of coexistence and democratic values in Spanish society, as well as those aimed at the integration of children and young people into the education system, those aimed at the promotion and prevention of health, the promotion of equal treatment and programmes specifically aimed at women. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by reaffirming the twofold commitment of the Government of Spain, on the one hand, to combating irregular immigration, which benefits no one, and, on the other, to promoting the development of an orderly, legal and fully integrated immigration. Our country, the Spanish citizenship and the immigrants themselves will win by it. It is also a moral obligation and a question of justice, to realize a right to protection and prosperity beyond our passport. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Surra Spadea, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u282	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. With regard to orderly immigration, we fully agree, but it would have to be instrumentalized in the Spanish embassies of the countries of origin, because that is where registration has to be made and where the coming of that orderly immigration has to be handled. That is the first step to be taken to prevent immigration from having to cross the Mediterranean in the forms we already know and from being a breeding ground for the mafia. If everything were resolved in the embassies of the countries of origin of the migrations, and not only in the countries bordering the Mediterranean, all these problems would be solved and those mafias would be eliminated. You came to say, and you corroborated it to me, that you need labor to maintain social security and pensions. We also agree with that. You referred, in general, to the immigration that is coming, that has not arrived. I told him about the immigration that's already here. So, what are we gonna do with that immigration that's already here? The immigration that is already here and that has no papers is benefiting the bosses; it is a rounded business, they get cheaper labor, they get the salary of the other workers here to be without those papers. That is why I want you to answer exactly what we are doing with the 400 000 people who have been living here for more than ten years, because it is true that there was a regularisation in 2005, and it is true that the Socialist Party government at that time left a few doors open so that we could organize this immigration entry in an orderly manner. However, they did not expect that in 2011 there was a labor reform that closed all the doors that you had left open. They do not take that into account today, and I see it in the statements that still do not take it into account. If one of the conditions for people to have their roles is to get a contract from someone who undertakes to hire them for a year without expelling them, after the 2011 Labour Reform of the People's Party, where indigenous workers and paper workers with only three months of work do not leave them definitive, throw them out and take them back, explain to me how a paperless worker can get a one-year employment contract. That's impossible. If it was difficult before, when the other workers worked three months on probation and then remained definitive at work, today, that is not so, and we have it even in subcontracted workers who work in this same Congress, who employ them three months, throw them out and re-employ them for three months, explain to me how a person without papers will be able to get that one-year contract required by the Aliens Act in order to regulate their situation. On the other hand, it is true that there is healing. In Catalonia we always had it, because Catalan health always accepted that people who were registered, even without papers, were served in public health. We, like Esquerra Republicana, recently approved that this also happened in the rest of Spain, and you counted on our votes because it was a correct measure for everyone. However, the same is not true in education. Why? Because children who go to school and have no papers at the end of the ESO, when their whole group goes to Italy or France as an end-of-school trip, they cannot go on a trip, because they can neither go out nor go back in. Explain to me then how we are the same in education despite having no papers. And then, when they reach the age of seventeen, they cannot obtain their residence, and when they are eighteen they become migrants in worse conditions than their parents, because they are not even recognized as old, but they begin to be migrants from the beginning, with all the contradictions that exist at the moment and that are getting worse. Explain to me, then, how education is equal. I want to tell you that our strength is going to be very important in the next municipal elections, elections in which all those who have Spanish nationality and those who vote for citizens with NIEs from twelve different countries, six of whom are Latin Americans. In addition to elections in the six communities where there are more people. Explain to all of them that we are not going to do anything for these companions and family members who will never be able to get the papers again. We are a force and we are going to make it hear, we are making ourselves heard everywhere, and if in certain circumstances they do not criticize Vox for his racism for fear of losing votes, know that if nothing is done with immigration right now they will lose all the votes of those who do have roles and of those who do want to support our colleagues because we see them suffer. We're a force and we're going to make her notice. Another problem, such as keeping you, would not exist if it were solved. Why? Because it is precisely the keepers who do not want to enter the submerged economy or go out and steal, so they make a street sale to be relatively free. If all these people were regularized, there would also be no such problem, so I ask you to reflect. His party is powerful, his party can win elections and count on the immigration vote if it takes measures that all migrants, whether we have papers or not, will support. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u283	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u284	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you insist that a process of regularisation of these 400 000 people you have just commented on be initiated. I have already told you that the Government is currently working, for example, on the forthcoming issuance of an order for a contingent of workers - approximately 17 000 - to work on red fruit. In other words, you are seeing what occupations you need to strengthen with people coming to work from outside and we will continue to work in that direction. At the moment we have a situation of unemployment in this country which does not allow us to face a process of regularization, beyond the four possibilities - and I repeat them again - that exist of authorization of residence in our country: social, family or work roots, international protection, humanitarian reasons or collaboration with administrative, judicial, police or prosecutorial authorities. You see this story with quite pessimism, but we think that in general, at least so far, the story of the integration of the immigrant population in our country has been a story of reasonable success. Obviously, as in all history, there are lights and shadows because in any human or political process that has some complexity it is always difficult for there to be 100 percent light, but I believe that in this case there are quite more lights than shadows. The light is essentially in the normality with which integration is generally lived; a normality that people practice in their day to day and that goes beyond some political discourses that are beginning - I hope not for long - to take root throughout Europe and also in our country. Here, in Spain, we have already entered a second phase of migration, a phase of stabilization of the migrant population in which normality is seen in a series of data. For example, one in ten persons living in Spain has foreign nationality; between 2002 and 2017 more than 1.5 million persons of foreign nationality have obtained Spanish nationality; eight out of ten non-nationalized non-EU immigrants have a permanent permit; in 16.18% of marriages held in Spain in 2017 one of the spouses had foreign nationality. In short, there is much evidence that reasonable integration is taking place. Secondly, and this is very important, this normality has been achieved without the social conflicts that we see happening in other countries in our environment. Our country can boast of having achieved the incorporation into its society of a migratory wave of singular intensity and volume in a very short period of time without giving rise to xenophobic movements. That is why I hope that some of the outbreaks that are taking place right now are simply temporary and do not become definitive and structural in our country, because if Spain has been characterized by something, it is because on many occasions it has been a country of political exiles or economic exiles. In recent years, around a million people - eye, that we have controlled because some do not register in our consulates abroad - have had to leave Spain - some of our sons and daughters, for example - to seek life out because here they did not find work. It is therefore essential that we in this country bet on the integration of the people who have come to live and work here with us. Just as we want to be treated well or to be treated well by our family members when they have to leave, we must treat properly and correctly the people who come with us. Whatever it is to encourage racism, xenophobia, fear of the people who come, hatred of the other is absolutely negative for a society like ours, which must be an inclusive society. We must look at immigration not as a problem because it is an unstoppable phenomenon and we must treat it as an opportunity. As in the previous decade, at the time of bonanza there were people who came to work in Spain and thanks to these people, among other things, also in 2011 we were able to leave the shelter of the pensions with 67 billion euros, we want the people who are currently living with us to integrate, work, pay their contributions, pay their taxes and have full duties and also full rights. We believe that this inclusive society is going to be very positive not only for the people we were born here, but also for the people who have come to work and live with us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u285	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Basque parliamentary group on the phenomenon of torture and ill-treatment in the Spanish state. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 172/000168]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u286	We turn to the urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group into the phenomenon of torture and ill-treatment in the Spanish State. [[EAJ-PNV]] For your defense, Mr. Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u287	Thank you very much, President. On 12 October 2008, during the IX Legislature and coinciding with the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Council of Ministers approved the elaboration of a human rights plan in compliance with the final provision of the 1993 Vienna Conference, which was presented by the Vice-President of the Government to the United Nations Assembly, stating that it was an ambitious plan that would put Spain at the forefront of the world and serve the Government as a framework for its actions for the promotion and protection of human rights. Beyond the catalogue of fundamental rights that the Constitution collects and those that it welcomes through the reception of international agreements by making them part of our system, it can be said that if human rights cease to be promoted, they begin to weaken. That is why it is a commitment that must be renewed on a daily basis by all the institutions in all their actions and decisions. Now, having just completed the 70th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and announced by the Government the elaboration of a second human rights plan, the Basque Parliamentary Group considers that the time has come to put in place concrete measures for the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations for having suffered torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment in the democratic period and in the context of the fight against the unjustifiable terrorism of ETA. These victims have waited too long, the institutions have been delayed in their recognition and reparation, except we consider - from the Basques and, despite this, have only been the subject of misunderstanding and unbiased criticism. The Basque Parliamentary Group, as I said, considers this to be a moment of truth and justice. It is about opening the path to truth, justice and reparation, and also opening a path to peace, reconciliation and coexistence. This path, in the field of state institutions, began a path of general recognition with Law 52/2007, called the historical memory, as an expression of the right of all citizens to moral reparation, recognizing and declaring the radically unjust nature of any form of personal violence produced for political, ideological or belief reasons during the Civil War and those suffered by the same causes during the Francoist dictatorship and repression. For this reason, the recognition and reparation of violations of rights and abuses by or with the connivance and tolerance of public authorities is peaceful or less conflictive when it applies to the pre-constitutional period, in which it is well known that the repressive methods of any non-democratic regime have been used and do not enjoy the presumption of legitimacy that is presumptuous to the actions carried out in the current rule of law. However, this same recognition and reparation is more problematic when it comes to the constitutional period, and perhaps its explanation is that these are situations which, to some extent, escape the normality of a democratic regime that was not subject to the tension of terrorist violence. That is why this situation is particularly sensitive because of the interests faced: on the one hand, legal certainty, the exclusivity of the jurisdictional function or the prestige or good name of the vast majority of public officials of the State Security Forces and Bodies and, on the other hand, the reality of certain abuses and the right of the real victims to recognition and reparation for the unjust damage suffered. However, with regard to these abuses during the constitutional period, the State institutions have had some timid reaction, as was the setting up of a special commission of inquiry into alleged ill-treatment of detainees in the Basque Country, which was subsequently called a commission of inquiry into human rights, at the request of the Socialist, Communist parliamentary groups and the deputy of Euskadiko Ezkerra, Mr Bandrés, and which carried out its work between 1979 and 1982 in the Second Legislature. Although, finally, the Commission did not reach any conclusions, fourteen sessions were held, numerous visits were made to prisons and centres under the Ministry of the Interior, information was collected, hearings were held by political officials, public officials of the State Administration, the judiciary and the prosecutor's office, and dean of the Bar Associations of the Basque Country, and testimony was also collected from alleged victims of ill-treatment and their relatives. I would now like to point out, for the sake of example, that for the present day this Committee of Inquiry has to be set up and to carry out its work under infinitely worse conditions than we have today, when ETA has already ceased to exist. On those days of the Commission's activity, the chilling figure of 252 people was killed by ETA. But since those years already distant, initials of the course of the current constitutional period, a path, a path to the truth, justice and reparation of these victims of human rights violations caused by actions of unlawful repression in the context of the fight against ETA terrorism has not been regained from the institutions of the State; a path that, on the contrary, is being used by Basque institutions. I would like to recall the Basque Government's Decree 107/2012, chaired by the then Lehendakari Patxi López, which was supported by the People's Party, on the declaration and reparation of victims of human rights violations, or also the agreement of the Basque Parliament of June 2015, which, with the favourable votes of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Bildu, urged the Basque Government to continue the policies of reparation for these victims and to agree on a law of reparation for these victims already in force. Because, ladies and gentlemen, these victims exist, they are not a fiction; they have been objectively recognized in reports from international human rights agencies, already since 1984 by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, and since the 1990s by the Committee on the Prevention of Torture and the United Nations Special Rapporteur against Torture; reports that have been repeated in successive visits and that have not been answered by the Spanish authorities in all these years. These reports have reiterated and coincidentally expressed their concern that the phenomenon of ill-treatment in Spain could not be considered outdated or that its existence could not be reduced to a mere random or sporadic case. Although we also have to say in honour of the truth - and we are deeply pleased - that since 2015 there has been no recorded case, coinciding precisely with the fact that no incommunicado police arrests were ordered, because it is found that the largest number of cases of torture and ill-treatment coincides with the largest number of incommunicado arrests, precisely in the 1980s and beginning in 2000. Such abusive treatment has also been found not only in the reports of international human rights organizations, but also in countless chronicles and information and in reports prepared by academic and expert bodies. I would like to recall here the basic report of human rights violations in the Basque case between 1960 and 2013, prepared, among others, by the current mayor of Madrid, Mrs Manuela Carmela, and Bishop Juan María Uriarte. I would also like to recall the report presented a year ago on torture and ill-treatment in the Basque Country between 1960 and 2014, which is the largest archive on cases of ill-treatment for the investigation of human rights violations, the work of future institutional mechanisms of recognition and for the collective memory of Euskadi. It is an effective investigation in line with international standards and the Istanbul Protocol of 2000, in the face of the inactivity of State institutions that have systematically denied the existence of such practices, which has been merely a further indicator, perhaps, of a lack of willingness to carry out an effective eradication or, if necessary, to conceal unjust sufferings that - I must also say - a very small minority of public servants could have caused and that come to question the other large majority that have never committed them. In any case, what really matters is to look only at the victims, think exclusively of them to make their recognition possible, because terrorist actions did not justify a single violation by abuse of power, but the existence of human rights violations cannot be presented as a confrontation between violence caused by political conflict either. Under no circumstances can it be intended, even in a veiled manner, to contextualize ETA terrorism, to equate violence or victims, to justify terrorist violence under the assumption of police abuse, or to erode the social and democratic rule of law, but to strengthen it, without prejudice to the fact that this issue of abuse of power must be dealt with, in fact, with prudence, consensus and sensitivity. Nor can it serve to erode coexistence, but, on the contrary, to normalize and build it from the memory and reparation of any human rights violation. Minister, we believe that what should prevail - and I am finalizing, Madam President - is support for victims, so that the damage is recognized, and this regardless of whether the victim is identified, apprehended, tried or convicted, as mandated by UN Resolution 60/47, the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes, Directive 2012/29, already transposed by Law 4/2015, of the Victims' Statute, or even, as a comparison parameter, the same Law 29/2011, on the comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism, in which the victim's status is also separated from the previous criminal proceedings, without prejudice to the work reserved for jurisdiction and without prejudice to the general rule of the connection to the prevalence of the judicial truth and the principle of the tried thing. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u289	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Legarda, first of all, I wanted to thank you - I do so sincerely because you know of my personal esteem - for the tone of your inquiry. Understand in me also the same sincere tone and sharing different things, but perhaps I disagree in the essence of some statement that has just been made. We have lived, as you have recalled, in a democratic and rule-of-law state since 1978. For forty years we have had a Constitution that, as we are remembering these days, has generated the most important period of coexistence among all Spaniards and among all the nationalities we make up. He made a reference that pleased me: the rule of law was the one that defeated ETA. He has made a very clear reference which I also thank: the difference between the fight against any kind of dissent, including terrorism, at the time of dictatorship and at the time of democracy. I appreciate your mentioning how ETA terrorism was overcome with the rule of law. I am grateful that you have also expressed how the State Security Forces and Bodies were, among which we also have the Ertzaintza with whom I have worked a long time and know of their high professionalism, among other social actors, those who defeated the terrorist organization ETA. I am grateful that you say that, in any case, the most lactating fact that a State governed by law and a public official, which is the commission of torture before a person deprived of his liberty and with his rights and dignity under certain circumstances, may be permitted, has been an issue not widespread but sporadic. I thank you very much for that, too. That is why the conclusion you come to and the reference you make to the reports, which Spain obviously assumes because it is a State perfectly involved in all the international institutions in the field of the protection of human rights, as Article 10.2 of our Magna Charter sets out, we make it our own and even all those opinions we implement in this area. And in the area of torture, you know very well both the UN, the United Nations, and the Council of Europe, and within the Council of Europe, the Convention for the Prevention of Torture, and within the Convention on Prevention, the Committee. We, within the international framework, submit ourselves to the committee; we not only subscribe to the conventions, the conventions are part of our legal order, but we also subscribe and submit ourselves to the committees; that is, any circumstance or possible violation that is denounced by the Spanish authorities in this matter is likely to be studied, analysed, even imposed a concrete action on the Spanish authorities. He has mentioned important points and I would therefore like to make a clear distinction between what happened during the dictatorship and what happened during democracy. You have made very specific reference to two fundamental extremes in a rule of law and when it comes to analysing conduct that could lead to torture or police abuse - obviously, conduct, as I said, execrable - it is the jurisdictional exclusivity, the judiciary that in a sense must analyse and circumscribe the possible responsibilities. And there is also the fundamental right to the presumption of innocence, which, as you know, rests solely with the judicial authorities. He's made some other reference. For example, it has indicated in a concrete way how certain regulations of our legal system had been questioned or called as likely to have been irrogated or to have been able to facilitate the commission of criminal conduct that might qualify as torture or ill-treatment, and referred to or thus defined by international organizations such as Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, etc. All of these issues must be analysed in their specific context, and what those reports could refer to. You mentioned incommunicado detention. It is true, as he also said, that it is one of the legal institutions that have been most questioned or as likely that in its development they could have virtuality, let's say, police excesses. Let me say - I have not said this before, but I want to make it clear in this rostrum - that torture is, of course, the criminal conduct of a public official who can have two main purposes: firstly, to obtain the non-voluntary confession of a detainee and, secondly, simply to punish, the fact of the punishment of a person accused of committing a specific act. I referred to incommunicado and would like to make it clear that incommunicado is regulated in our legal system in Articles 509 and 527. In 2015 there was a legislative reform to implement, determine or extend the requirements for the adoption of this measure and even limit the rights that could in turn, worth repeating, be limited by the judicial authority. For my professional work I will comment that the application of incommunicado detention is true that it is limited not only to terrorist crimes, but to crimes where there is a perfectly structured criminal organization; it does not have to be exclusively for terrorist crimes. It is true, as you have indicated, that it applied to terrorism. Two are the purposes of incommunicado detention, essentially: to avoid a serious risk to the lives of third persons, and that is why it can be adopted, or also a serious risk to the ongoing judicial proceedings. But it must be made clear that in such situations incommunicado should be agreed by the judicial authority. Since the beginning, since the years 1982, 1983 and 1984 of which you spoke, the intervention of the judicial authority has already been necessary not only to agree on it, but to control it. There were already judicial decisions - the Constitutional Court has been mentioned here before, which has been, as it were, for many years our Criminal Prosecution Act of 1982 - and the Constitutional Court has been telling the judges how we had to apply any article of the Criminal Prosecution Act in terms of its compatibility with the Constitution. Among these parameters of compatibility is article 15 of the Constitution, which enshrines or defines the physical and moral integrity of persons and the prohibition of any ill-treatment, the prohibition of torture. And how should one act incommunicado? I think you are aware that incommunicado detention at that time implied that the judicial authority controlled detention while they were incommunicado in forensic police headquarters attached to the Ministry of Justice, they were not attached to the Ministry of the Interior. On two occasions - it seems important to me - they moved to the police headquarters, where they were with the detainee and he should or could make reference to any circumstances or to how the detention had developed. Not only was that judicial control, but it was and is also the institution of habeas corpus. Any family member or person could bring habeas corpus proceedings by referring to the illegality or that any violation of fundamental rights, physical integrity and moral integrity in the course of such detention could have occurred in this case. From the outset, the Spanish democratic courts continued to investigate the facts when they were reported or when possible or hypothetical torture was alleged. You know as well as I that there were even convictions in the 1980s for the commission of some crime of torture, but I repeat again, as you said, that they were made or exceptional events because, as we have indicated, our State Security Forces and Bodies were impregnated and more and more, like all of us, because, of course, every time we grow and with the development of democracy, we are much more imbued with the true essence, the true philosophy and the materiality of fundamental rights and freedoms. You talk about those reports - I will talk about it, although there is little time left - and you and I know about these issues, the European Court of Human Rights and this situation. Always, and then if there is time I will give the data, reference is made to the convictions of Spain by the European Court of Human Rights and, in particular, on complaints by the commission of hypothetical tortures. In this case you know very well that there have been nine convictions. There are many and I do not like it because this type of crime, as I said before, is execret, but you know that of the forty-seven countries of the Council of Europe, Spain is one of the least sued, and that when it has been sued, it is of the countries that have a lower number of convictions for violation of rights under the European Convention on Human Rights. And these nine sentences to which we refer in no way refer to or indicate that torture had been committed in the course of the alleged acts or in the reported arrests. These rulings said that there had not been a thorough judicial investigation, when it existed, and it is very important, as you say, although it is not to make a mockery. That particular mention must be made, that there had not been a sufficiently thorough investigation. And why did he say that? That is why we have commented on both you and I, because it is one of the most execrable crimes that can be committed in democracy before a person deprived of liberty, when obviously his or her compensation is more fragile, and who exercises it is who has to rely more on loyalty to the inspiring principles of a rule of law. This requires that research and instruction be much more thorough, much more complete. That's the essential thing. I also liked it very much - I know it is - that we have to decontextualize, because in no way these terrible behaviors and, I say again, absolutely exceptional in what has been the fight against the terrorist organization ETA, we cannot put them on the same table as the murderous, criminal, violence of the terrorist organization ETA. For the same reasons, let us leave in this case and in these cases, for that very exceptionality - which does not take away any gravity, I repeat - that it is the Spanish judicial bodies that are responsible for investigating and investigating the cases and arriving at the consequences of what has actually happened. I'm done. I say to you that in this matter this Government and I believe that all the Governments of Spain have echoed most of the recommendations made by the Council of Europe, the Human Rights Committee and other organizations and associations in the field of human rights and, in this case, the physical integrity of persons deprived of their liberty. All of them always say and say that on the part of the Spanish institutions there has always been maximum cooperation and collaboration in the investigations carried out by them, without any limit and without putting any clippings, as it cannot be otherwise if we are a State worthy of being considered as a democratic and legal state. In those terms, the debate should remain. You know, and this concludes my first speech, Madam President, that there was an appeal of unconstitutionality against the law of the Basque Parliament on sexual abuse and that the Government withdrew that appeal under these parameters that I am telling you. We must not contextualize, because we cannot and must not put on the same side of the balance the violence of the terrorist organization ETA, absolutely structural for fifty years, that absolutely exceptional and extraordinary cases of misuse of public media. You have referred to those two major problems to which we have referred, which are jurisdictional exclusivity and the presumption of innocence, which could not be minimally limited, and to that conviction we come, as is absolutely reasonable. In that sense, you know that for the persecution of all criminal conduct of this nature you will certainly have this minister and you will have this government, but I repeat - and you have said this - that they are absolutely exceptional and extraordinary, so it would be a little contradictory to generate an investigation that would have made it appear that this would have been a way of acting in the fight against the terrorist organization ETA which, as I said, was not that, but the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u290	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u291	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Minister, for the tone of your speech, which I believe has been constructive. Partly and amicably, I disagree on two nuclear issues. The first is that, indeed, in a democratic and social State under the rule of law the function of judging and enforcing what is judged is in the courts, but also our own law and international law disconnect the criminal process from victim status, which is what I have quoted. [[The lady]] Because regardless of the support to the victim, our system, Law 29/11, Law 4/2015, UN Resolution 6047 that I have cited or the European Convention on Compensation to Victims states that what must prevail is support to the victim. It says: In order to ensure that the damage is recognized and regardless of whether the victim - the perpetrator - is identified, apprehended, tried or convicted. Secondly, with regard to the various reports that have occurred over time - fortunately not lately - of international bodies concerning the practice of ill-treatment, especially during the regimes of judicially decreed incommunicado detention, of course, in all these cases Spain was condemned for not investigating the complaints - and I will read it in full - for a poor use of forensic reports and evidence, for not having practiced necessary evidence and for not assessing the psychological consequences of torture. The Istanbul Protocol. These agencies were unable to assess the practice of torture precisely because there was insufficient investigation. Finally, as our group on this issue has a constructive intention, and in conclusion, I will say that our initiative is justified in the doctrine emanating from the international treaties and agreements on the protection of human rights, which state that these fundamental rights, including the right to life, integrity, etc., are almost absolute in nature and are an integral part of the essential content of the protection of the right of the individual, which in itself constitutes, of course, a common democratic minimum and an area of indisputable and timeless protection of our society. Therefore, we consider - and this was also the basis of our initiative - the existence - not now, fortunately - of serious victims of these human rights violations, and that is why the first reason for the need for this initiative was, as I have said, the victims themselves that exist and that so far we consider that they have not been recognized or repaired. The second reason for our initiative was linked to an ethical commitment to the social and democratic rule of law, as well as to the principles, rights and freedoms, and to the guarantees that underpin it, which signify the recognition that in the exercise of the legitimate power and violence of the State there have been abuses, excesses and actions of unlawful repression, both in the context of the fight against terrorism and on its pretext. This recognition - I said it and you have acknowledged it - must not undermine the rule of law or its institutions, but rather its solid reinforcement to the extent that it implies a commitment and a will to redress the consequences of unacceptable behaviour in a democratic framework. As a third reason, this initiative concerned the normalization of coexistence and the construction of a critical memory of the past. In this regard, we must state that Basque and Spanish society, in our view, have suffered for more than five decades from ETA terrorism and violence and that the end of this unjust history of ETA has allowed a process of peace and coexistence to be addressed that must be based on a critical memory of the past that is capable of recognizing and redressing the victims of human rights violations. I conclude with a reflection of one of the reports he has cited, which states that a large number of victims need and claim public recognition and want to be cared for and recognized in order to overcome the facts and to put an end to them and contribute effectively to the reconstruction of the social fabric, collective memory and recognition. Only with the sensitivity to suffering and injustice suffered - it is said - also for these victims, along with many others who have suffered the consequences of violence and terrorism in the Basque Country, can we build a culture of human rights and make visible the impact of torture and ill-treatment, is a first step to look at that part of the mirror that has been part of our recent past and that should not condition our future as a society. I end up sharing some recent reflections that you made - and I was there - on the Vitoria-Gasteiz victims' memorial when you said that two great principles or experiences could be drawn from ETA terrorism. The first, that terrorism did not get the best out of all of us, and I have to say that that includes me too. And the second, that the focus of our attention must be the victims, and I add that all the victims. Thank you very much, Madam President, Minister and ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u292	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u293	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Legarda, I'll be very brief. I repeat what has already been said and I would just like to refer to two very clear questions. Obviously you, me and all of us here are very close in our positions, we are democrats and we have come a long way in which we have been able to demonstrate it to all of us. One of the issues that you have said in relation to the analysis of behaviors, not just terrorism, let us hope that it is either the past - I am absolutely convinced - but another kind of attitudes or behaviors, even if they do not have much to do with it: violence of any kind does not get the best out of any of us, it always gets the worst out of us, and it is certain that in those throws, at those times, even though we do not participate directly in it, we feel polluted and sure that we feel fatal even with ourselves. You spoke of the victims and the consideration of victims. Look, the very law to which you referred, Law 29/2011, on comprehensive protection and reparation of victims of terrorism, of 22 September, necessarily states that for the consideration of a victim of a terrorist act there must be a judicial decision. If there is no judicial decision, that does not mean that there is a trial with a determination of who the victim, the perpetrator and the conviction is, but a judicial decision where there is an investigation of an act of a terrorist nature and where this person appears as a victim. Within the Government, the Ministry of the Interior and the Office of Support for Victims of Terrorism, under other circumstances, we are trying to ensure that the consideration of a victim of terrorism does not necessarily have to be by judicial decision, because on other occasions, many years ago, there were not even judicial proceedings, they were missing in administrative bodies, etc. I'm talking about before 1978. We want the victim's consideration to be made by other means, such as police files or whatever. But, to this day, I refer you to the fact that for the consideration of a victim of terrorism, Law 29/2011 requires a judicial decision, as is the case with the Statute of the Victim, Law 4/2015, on the development of Directive 29/2012, in those terms. I would like once again to mention that this State of ours, the Spanish State as the rule of law, has taken on board the set of human rights indications and references of all the committees of all international associations regarding the investigations they have made of the subject. Similarly, those who make the Ombudsman as a national mechanism for the prevention of torture, as you well know he is, who tours and visits all centres, not only to detention centres - for reasons of incommunicado detention - but also to prisons - to persons serving sentences there - or to the CIEs, etc. Most of these indications are met by all of us. Visits are also made to the whole of the Spanish State police, not only to the National Police Corps, but also to the Civil Guard, Ertzaintza, Mossos d'Esquadra and Policía Foral, and they give opinions to all the police authorities on the need to extend the guarantees, because this is what it is about, to extend the guarantees for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. But the fact that there are such reports does not mean that there have been repeated - or had been in previous years - violations of fundamental rights, because what is at stake is taking the precise measures to avoid the risk that such violations may occur. I would like to say once again that in this matter - and I shall end by not reiterating myself - this Government, and I believe that all the political parties in this Chamber, are convinced that it is an absolutely serious and essential task to protect rights and freedoms in terms not of formality but of materiality, and in that we are going to move forward, and I am sure that this discrepancy that we have will soon be reduced. But in that sense let me finish what you said. The terrorist organization ETA was defeated by the rule of law, by the law, and the State Security Forces and Bodies played an essential role, and also obviously the whole of society, but without the rule of law, without international cooperation within the framework of the European Union, terrorism would not have been defeated. Terrorism could only be overcome - as was definitely done - by the use of the law and within a rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u294	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Presidency, relations with the Courts and the like to explain why the principles of impartiality, objectivity and neutrality in the work of the Centre for Sociological Research are fulfilled. [[File number 172/000171]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u295	We turn to the urgent appeal of the People's Parliamentary Group to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency and Relations with the Courts and Equality to explain why the principles of impartiality, objectivity and neutrality are not met in the work of the Centre for Sociological Research. Mr Bermúdez de Castro has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u296	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, believe me if I told you that the Group of the European People's Party would not have liked to have had to present and discuss this question. We have always believed that the best thing for the Spaniards is that certain public institutions and bodies are far from political controversy; we have always believed this, before when we were ruling and now that you, who are not the Spanish people, have put us in opposition. Among those agencies that should maintain scientific independence and rigour is undoubtedly the Centre for Sociological Research. And you know why? Because its main function is to contribute to the scientific knowledge of Spanish society - that is the CIS, ladies and gentlemen - and that function can only be fulfilled from impartiality, objectivity and neutrality, and so that body has been working in recent years. An example of this is that months ago the previous president of the CIS appeared in this House and all the groups - all of them, I repeat - agreed to recognize the independence of that body. The centre was described as the beacon of research in Spain, as the envy of researchers in our environment and was congratulated at the time for its great work and professional competence. The CIS, ladies and gentlemen, was known for its proven prestige and scientific basis, not for its president. Today, unfortunately, this situation has changed. Today the CIS, with Mr Tezanos at the front, is being questioned and holds critical headlines in the media. Listen, ladies and gentlemen: skating, fiasco, ridiculous, manipulation, farce, shame, mockery... And we could continue because these are just some of the adjectives with which the media have qualified the CIS surveys, and I emphasize the media, Mrs Batet, because yesterday the Vice-President of the Government, in the Senate, accused the People's Party of carrying out a ruthless campaign against the CIS. Well, those adjectives, I repeat, are headlines and editorials in the media, not in the People's Party. [[Applauds]] But the problem is not just the headlines; the biggest problem is that in just a few months the entire credit for CIS surveys has been squandered, which were a fundamental reference for Spanish society as well as for all political formations. Today no one believes such surveys and their reliability has become a true car of faith. Because you don't believe them, the government doesn't even believe them, because if you believed them long ago, you would have called elections. That is the sad result of five months of management of Mr. Tezanos, an appointment that was not without controversy. Go ahead that we have never doubted his academic ability, but logically you will have to understand that we had doubts about his political neutrality, because Mr Tezanos was nothing more or less than the secretary of studies and programs of the Socialist Party, a position that in addition initially resisted to abandon, which triggered endless political criticism and even press editorials. Of course, it was not the best start, but with his later performance he could have cleared up those doubts in his favor. [[The lady]] However, quite the opposite has happened, and today we can only make a negative judgment of their performance, especially with regard to election polls, which today are the subject of controversy and disbelief for a large majority of Spaniards. I will focus on this, recognizing the high appreciation that we deserve from other performances of this centre, from its excellent catalogue of publications, with the REIS at the head, going through the rest of its studies, the presentation of books or research grants. All this thanks to the fact that the CIS has excellent professionals, the best professionals of sociological research in Spain, to whom we do not question their work or their capacity and who, of course, are not responsible for the stupendous failure of these surveys. That failure has a double responsibility, Mr Tezanos, who is the head of the CIS and who has decided to change the method of estimating results, and Mr Sánchez's government, who has appointed him and who still supports him. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I believe that there is a principle in the field of electoral sociology in which we should all agree, and that principle is that the effectiveness of a survey is measured by the correctness of its prediction. I imagine that you will agree because that principle is not mine, that principle stated on more than one occasion here, in the parliamentary seat, Mr Vallespín, who was President of the CIS between May 2004 and May 2008; indeed, when the current Vice-President was also Minister of Culture, that is, they were part of the same Government. A principle that, by the way, has been repeated this weekend by the first president of the CIS, Juan Díez Nicolás, saying that the prestige of the CIS is based on success, ladies and gentlemen. Well, starting from that principle, the electoral polls that the CIS now does are ineffective and useless to everyone except for the Socialist Party, which is being obscenely favored by the new method of voting estimation imposed by Mr Tezanos. And that's neither casual nor improvised. What are the changes Mr. Tezanos has made? Many experts in electoral sociology have written about them these days in a multitude of media and they all agree. What I'm going to do is reproduce your arguments. The first thing Mr Tezanos has done is to change abruptly and without the slightest justification the methodology of the fieldwork of the surveys, which, among other things, will prevent or hinder the historical comparison of the so-called CIS series. You will tell me what benefit this has for science and sociology, and I ask you, Mrs Batet, because Mr Tezanos has not offered to appear in this House until yesterday. In addition, the voting estimation formula has changed. His first occurrence to make that estimate has been to eliminate the indecisive, that is, the most rational vote, so from now on the monthly barometers no longer reflect the feeling or voice of the entire electoral body, but only of one part. It has also eliminated the variables that corrected the political and ideological biases of the interview sample, and that is where the biggest problem is, because in the CIS's set of interviews there is an overweighting, an overrepresentation of left-wing voters who from that moment on are not being corrected and who are moving directly to the electoral estimates - all the demoscopes are saying this; read the press - and then the polls come out. An example of this we have in the last barometer of November, and now I will talk about it, but let's see if we can agree on something else first. First objective: in the last general elections of 2016, the total number of votes of the People's Party and Citizens in electoral percentage was 46%, and the total number of votes of the Socialist Party, Podemos, with all its confluences, and Esquerra Republicana, was also 46%. I am referring only to the political forces which in this House had more than 2% representation and electoral percentage. I mean, the two blocks are balanced. That's what I think you understand. Well, in order to assess the changes in voting trend that have taken place from the past general elections to here, it is logical that the sample of interviews should be brought closer to this balance. I'm not saying it's mathematically the same, but it does approach that balance in at least two variables: in memory of vote and in ideological self-location. It's logical, because now it's no longer corrected; that's what the experts say. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the result of the last barometer in November is in these two variables? In memory of the vote, the percentage of respondents who remember voting for the PSOE, Podemos or Esquerra Republicana is also 46% - exactly the same result that was obtained in the past general elections - but the voting memory of those who voted for the People's and Citizens' Party is only 30%; 16 points less, ladies and gentlemen. And in ideological self-location it is even more scandalous, because out of every hundred interviewees those considered to be right or right center are only 22%, while those considered to be left center-left or center-left center are 60%, triple, ladies and gentlemen. And then the polls come out as they go out, I repeat, because that bias is not corrected by Mr. Tezanos' method. [[Applauds]] And that's what Mr. Tezanos calls science and Mrs. Vice President yesterday in the Senate calls technicalism, but no, gentlemen of the government, that's not science and that's technicalism, that's inflating the left and cutting others, and that's a deception and a gross manipulation in the polls. [[Applauds]] With these precedents, I am not surprised by the bulging errors of his survey in Andalusia, where the CIS gave 17 more seats to the left political forces and 6 fewer seats to the Popular Party's strength; a stupendous failure, gentlemen of the Government, which has turned Mr.Tezanos into a centre of criticism in public opinion and also in the published and memes-paste on social networks. They'll tell me they're just polls. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, but it's just that the CIS only does surveys and it also does them with taxpayers' money. And to end the work last week, the results of a new monthly barometer were published where the Socialist Party does not suffer even the least wear and tear despite what was on it in the past Andalusian elections, and that, ladies and gentlemen, can't be believed by anyone. There is no need to be a sociologist for this, nor does the CIS deserve a survey with that estimate. Or do you agree, Mrs Batet, with Mr Tezanos that the important thing in the polls is not to be correct? Because then, why do they do it? To make a mistake? I'm asking him because he's not here. And on top of that, two more questions. Do you think that the criticisms that have taken place in certain media towards the CIS, as Mr Tezanos says, are only in the interests of demoscopic companies? Do you share with the current CIS leadership that the model that has been applied in recent decades with governments of both signs was closer to magic or witchcraft than to science? I'm done. Mrs. Batet, do you really think Mr. Tezanos' position is sustainable? We think not, that their situation is unsustainable, and we think not because of their ideology - here everyone has theirs - but because they put an institution that is of all to the service of an ideology, which is a very different thing. [[Applauds]] And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, when the balloon is inflated in excess it ends up exploding, and that is what has happened to them, that from inflating the PSOE so much in the polls the balloon has exploded to them in Andalusia, and now they do not know how to explain it. That is why Mr Tezanos should not continue at the head of the CIS, because of the damage he is causing to that institution; that is why we ask you to appoint a new president to return the prestige, neutrality and impartiality to that centre, which he should never have lost, and because that decision will be applauded by the scientific community and we will also thank the Spanish as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u297	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u298	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, it is appropriate to start with the principle, that is, with the principles, starting from the basic agreements on which coexistence is based in our society: coherence and proportionality are two of those principles that we should all, without exception, respect. [[The Lord]] It makes no sense in my view, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, that the People's Parliamentary Group should come to this Chamber today to shout in the sky because the CIS president is affiliated with a party, and instead that in the past parliamentary term his group would consider the most natural thing in the world to place a member of its political party at the head of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] There is no consistency between the two behaviors and no ratio. They should not, therefore, make many scarecrows, because the only scandal that exists here is precisely their own scandal. Having said that, I must point out to you that the Centre for Sociological Research does preserve its principles of impartiality, objectivity and neutrality, with consistency and with the required rigour that has always characterized this institution, and that, instead, it misses so much in the position of the People's Party. Your Honor, you're trying to create a case based on scattered elements, conjectures and a certain dose of bad faith; we're used to it, but that's not why I think it's more acceptable. The methodological procedures of the CIS remain as they have been so far, making five improvements that further align the activity with scientific rigour. First, the results of secret voting projection models are not published; second, the sample size is increased in five hundred interviews improving reliability and validity; third, more data collection points and greater representativeness-sample checks are introduced into the sample design; fourth, the deadlines for presenting and disseminating the results have been shortened; and fifth, transparency on the procedures performed is increased. The answer is that the CIS now more than ever respects precisely the principles of scientific activity. The CIS carries out its investigations according to the same methodologies that have been used for many years, with proper control and supervision of all field work, which continue to be carried out by the same technicians as you always praised, and which make up the CIS field team in which no changes have been made. The recording and tabulation of the data is done by the same company as usual, and CIS samples have been raised, as I said, from 2500 interviews to 3000 in order to increase their reliability and reduce the theoretical margins of error and thus be able to compensate for the effect of the increase in indefinition and non-responses. Your Honor, the CIS's regular surveys are - still are - the most reliable and rigorous than we have in Spain. [[Rumors]] Unlike your honor, apparently, I'm not an expert on demoscopy, I'm not. I still know - because they have told me this and my experience reinforces it - first, that surveys are very useful tools to know the opinion at a specific time, but they are not so much to predict the future, and secondly, that the relevant are the data derived from the field work on which everyone can make the estimates that they consider appropriate. Unfortunately, we are used to reading the estimates that the surveys provide us as if it were an oracle, when in reality these estimates are the product of hypotheses about what some people interviewed will vote at a time when many of them have not yet decided the meaning of their vote, or have not even decided whether they will finally approach the polls or not. You will understand that in such a circumstance the election estimate contains an important element of unpredictability. Moreover, Your Honor, at times of change such as the one that Spain is experiencing - in fact, as the one that has been living throughout Europe for a few years now - as has been the case with the last elections in Andalusia, if your Lordship takes the trouble of analyzing the data of the CIS pre-election poll for the Andalusian autonomous elections you will see that 26% of the interviewees stated that they had not decided their vote at the time of the survey. You will understand that estimating election results, when more than a quarter of the sample does not show a clear election choice, carries a risk; but it is also that common sense should have led you to believe that if all polling houses have been wrong in their predictions for the Andalusian elections on 2 December, perhaps the CIS has also been wrong. But where in the rest of the polls you see a mistake, in the CIS case you see bad intention, and the question is why. Why couldn't the CIS be wrong like everyone else was wrong? If the surveys whose fieldwork was done a week before the elections were wrong, if they were not able to predict what would happen in the last week of the campaign, how can the CIS prediction that did its fieldwork between October 15 and October 3, between a month and a half and a month before the day of the elections be better accurate? Is it not reasonable that at greater temporal distance the prediction error is greater? But who wants to reason these days, right, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro? You put the president of the CIS in the picket box, which he blames for all the evils. The president of the CIS has been a professor of Sociology since 1983, and has recognized six years of research and teaching, the maximum that can be achieved at the Spanish university, with more than 170 research behind his back. No doubt that's a proper professional profile to lead the CIS will agree with me. What's the problem, then, that militates in a game, you say? And I wonder, do the different professionals in different areas of society lose their expertise because of the fact that they are military in a party? Should we be suspicious of the professionalism of all professionals in the different sectors when we enter a military party? Should we judge professional capacity according to the political views of individuals, citizens and citizens? The answer given by common sense and legislation is that no, and that is why the CIS president is allowed to be military in a party, not so with other positions of responsibility or institutional representation or representation of other powers of the State. But common sense and existing legislation are not a barrier to which you stop. You have questioned the suitability of Mr. Tezanos since the day of his appointment, that of him, not his own, because I am sure that if any of your lords does an exercise of introspection he will think that having acquired the strong civic commitment that is supposed to be a party militant has not degraded her in her personal and professional ethics. I consider you perfectly capable of developing in the professional field in which you are expert a future life, even if you are a militant in a political party, Mr Bermúdez de Castro. In fact, all previous CIS directors have had express political ideas, several of them have held positions of responsibility in various parties, and some - three of them - have subsequently been ministers, undersecretaries, secretaries of state or directors of ideological magazines of their parties, which reveals their high degree of political involvement will agree with me. Now this does not matter to your lordship at this time or it does not matter to you; this does not serve as an argument, because you start the house on the roof. You are convinced that the CIS manipulates surveys in favour of the government, and from this undisputed truth you make the argument. Tell me, please, did the CIS lack scientific rigour, did it exercise statistical manipulation - these are his words, those of the interpellation - when it estimated in 2012 that the People's Party took 7 points of advantage to the PSOE in Andalusia, when in the end the distance between the two remained at 1 point? Was the government's kitchen the CIS at the time, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro, or was it an institution that carried out its functions in accordance with the principles of objectivity, neutrality and impartiality? Those are your words, Your Honor. Do you need to remember who occupied the Government in 2012? Was the CIS impartial before the 2016 general election, when it predicted that Unidos Podemos would beat the PSOE in 4 points and up to 4 seats, when at the end it was the PSOE that stood ahead with 14 more seats? Was the CIS acting on the dictate of the interests of the then government? Was it a propaganda instrument or was it a reputed public institution, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro? One thing or another, and the same standard in 2012, 2016 and 2018. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, last October 20th the newspaper La Razón published a survey on the autonomous elections in Andalusia - I suppose so, because we all followed the polls - according to which the PSOE would obtain in Andalusia 36,6% of the vote and 45 seats. The CIS forecasted 37.4% and between 45 and 47 seats. Do you believe that Reason engages in statistical manipulation? Do you consider La Reason an instrument of electoral propaganda in the service of the Government? Does your lordship consider that the detestation of La Razón has reached its high point, as the interpellation of the CIS says? I could talk to him about other surveys and other results, but I'll skip it because I have one minute and forty seconds left. I could tell you about the ABC survey of November 18 or the Journal.es survey of November 25. Let's be serious, Mr. Bermudez de Castro. We can discuss whether the CIS should or should not make electoral estimates, we can even discuss whether, if so, the CIS should make public the mechanisms on which its cooking is based, but I also believe that the most appropriate place for this is precisely the appearance of the CIS president, who has been requested and who I believe his parliamentary group has also requested. He is therefore willing to come when he is called by the Constitutional Commission of this Congress. By the way, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, precisely in this pre-election survey the CIS did something that it had never done before: it published, along with the data, an explanation of what variables had been used to make the election projection. How can you talk about a lack of impartiality and objectivity when the CIS makes public the mechanism for calculating the estimate of the vote, and it does so for the first time in its history? But there is more - and this is important - because thanks to the insistence of a socialist deputy, José Andrés Torres Mora, and thanks to the vision of a CIS president appointed by a socialist government, Mrs Barreiro, since 2008 the microdata, the CIS matrices, are available freely and for free so that anyone who wants can make the analyses they want, exactly with the same depth as the CIS technicians. That is also contributing to the sociological scientific element. Today any statistician, any sociology professional can make their estimates with the same data as the CIS does. Do you know anyone today who has published a theoretical model of estimation of CIS data that serves to predict, even retrospectively - with all the advantages involved - the results of last December 2nd? No, I'm sure you don't know him, because no one has published that theoretical model, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. The only thing you know about CIS is the irresponsibility to use it to him, to his professionals at the end, and to his director or president to make the worst possible opposition, which ignores any data and only raises the government's wear and tear at any price, even at the price of discrediting institutions as important to our country as CIS. Your problem, Your Honor, is not the political militancy of the CIS president, but your militancy in a party that is not yours. Their problem is not the reliability of their surveys, but the unstoppable fall of their party into them, something they all agree on, and by the way they all agree. And I'm done. You began by saying that you wanted to keep public institutions out of this political controversy, because it is up to you, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, to keep public institutions out of the political controversy in order not to harm these institutions, and ultimately to end up damaging democracy as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u299	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bermudez de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u300	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Batet, the least you can ask a minister to listen to the questioner, because we have never doubted the academic capacity of Mr Tezanos nor do we care about his ideology - I have said it in the rostrum, he is in the Journal of Sessions and that is why I should have listened to him -, we criticize him for his lack of political neutrality and his failure in his polls, because the electoral polls and the prestige of the CIS, as other presidents have said, are measured by their successes and not by their mistakes. [[applause]] I also see that he has not wanted or has not been able to refute my arguments, and that he has also not wanted to answer the questions I have asked him - do not forget that it is the government that is subject to control, not the opposition - but the worst thing about his intervention is that they do not seem to care too much about what is happening in the CIS or what Mr Tezanos is doing. Look, we have not presented this question by whim, we have done it because the CIS is being the protagonist these days - and the media say this, not the People's Party, all media, I leave it here if you want - because of its bulwark errors, not because of its successes. [[shows a document]] I can understand that the Vice-President of the Government has released this ballot for you, but after your intervention we have been much more concerned. And you know why? Because it has not done the slightest self-criticism, it has devoted itself to disqualifying me personally, I do not know why, and it has not done the slightest self-criticism, and the most serious thing is that it has not done any purpose of amendment. Do you not see that the criticism of the CIS of Tezanos is not of the PP, but is a cry in the media and among experts in electoral sociology? You don't see it, you don't read it, the government doesn't read it? Get down on the street a little bit and read the press. Don't you realize that Mr. Tezanos' situation is unsustainable? How can you argue that the CIS works normally and that your surveys are done with scientific rigour if you don't get one, Mrs Batet? How can you tell me, as the only argument, that earlier CIS surveys were also wrong? Of course, in four or five seats, you said it, but not in seventeen. It is that in Andalusia we are faced with the worst estimate of the CIS in its history. I have already seen something else: you do not know whether you defend or do not want to respond to the arguments I have said. I do not know whether you agree that all the indecisive should be eliminated in CIS surveys and that no bias in the interview sample should be corrected, which is what you have said. But, look, I'm just going to tell you one thing: continuing to tune the polls in your favor is going to end up turning against you, and it's only going to contribute in the future to discredit the CIS, and that center and its magnificent professionals don't deserve it, Mrs. Batet. [[Applauds]] It tells me, I don't know if for everyone's sake, that yesterday the President of the CIS asked to appear at his own request in this House, but that sounds like a joke, a joke, because I think he is very forced by the presentation of this inquiry. He asked yesterday to appear at his own request after six months of his appointment and after four months in which the People's Group in the Senate and in Congress has been demanding that he come to appear. That is Mr Tezanos' way of respecting the duty of accountability and parliamentary control. It does not seem to me to be the best argument, Mrs Batet, and of course it is not - and I am very concerned - that in order to conceal the failure of the CIS surveys you here try to extend contempt to all the demoscopic companies in this country. The truth is that I did not expect such an unsavory argument coming from you and from a minister of the Kingdom of Spain. And it just seems like that's his way of doing politics. They have not yet understood that it is one thing to govern and another to occupy power and propaganda. Looks like you guys are experts on that last one. To this end, they do not mind putting at the service of their strategy the institutions that control and trying to neutralize those that they cannot control. They do not mind having sunk into the Spanish Television audience, but they are subject to their interests. And they don't care about the scorn of the CIS either, but their polls give them winners, even if they have to artificially inflate their party. And they do not mind removing the Senate to set deficit targets or to seek to reduce the powers of the Bureau of this House to decide by a majority the way in which parliamentary debate is organised if these institutions stand in their way. That is their way of doing politics, but that, ladies and gentlemen, is not to govern, and the Spaniards have already realized that, and if they do not believe them to do one thing, why does the CIS not ask the Spaniards if they want general elections to be called? [[Applauds]] Ask that question and you will see that your answer will not surprise anyone, not even you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u301	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u302	Thank you, President. I will give you the reason for one thing, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, when he said whether I am concerned about the results of the CIS surveys: no, I am actually more concerned than his party pact with an extreme right-wing political force in Andalusia rather than supporting the most voted force and who has won the elections in Andalusia. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] That worries me a lot more than the polls, I can assure you. [[Applauds]] That does have real effects. Let us come down to reality and think about the problems of the citizens. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u303	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u304	Can you tell me what the CIS's voting estimate model was in the last five years, in the last ten years and in the last twenty years? No, you can't tell me because it was never published. You speak of scientific rigor, but scientific rigor requires that analyses and experiments can be reproduced by other researchers, and that is what is now allowed in the CIS. Do you think it's very scientific to hide the estimation model? How are CIS estimates then reproduced by other scientists? For this is what was done in the CIS and what is usually done in the estimates of polling houses published by the media. But knowing that, knowing that, who do you accuse of lack of transparency? For precisely the President of the CIS, who has decided to be more transparent. Who are you accusing of cooking the data? For precisely the director of the CIS, who has decided not to cook them. Your Honor, in your particular world - I am not referring to yours, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, I am referring to that of the People's Parliamentary Group - who publicly exposes his procedures and methodologies to become sectarian and manipulative. The non-cooking is described as a skewed kitchen in its peculiar vision. Looks like we're in Alicia's story in Wonderland, exactly the world backwards. What happens is that you are neither novelists nor your overwhelmed imagination is harmless, but it has consequences, because in the end everything that is debated in this House, all the pronouncements that are made, all the statements that are made by a political party, being a majority more, in this House is not harmless, everything has consequences, Your Honor. It is not this government that is damaging the CIS reputation, it is you. You, who only respect the institutions when you rule, pass with the CIS and pass with many others, because you believe yourself precisely the owners of those institutions and consider that you can use them at your will. This government does not intend to tolerate you passing the CIS prestige or dragging it through the mud - the CIS and its prestige - as you have done before, and you have also mentioned it in your speech, for example with Spanish Radio and with so many other public institutions. With accusations as grave as they are weakly founded as theirs, not only is the President's professional honour and the image of an institution such as the CIS harmed, but at the end - and I ended my intervention and ended this second intervention in the same way - the politics and the democratic system are harmed. You know the moment of volatility and the moment of unpredictability, and I have quoted them not in the spirit of discrediting, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, but of pointing out that today's correctness in surveys has a different meaning than it had ten or twenty years ago. And it happens in Spain and it happens in countries around us, Mr Bermúdez de Castro. Therefore, all I ask is that we be a little serious, be a little rigorous, criticise what needs to be criticized, bring reflection or suggest modifications where we consider them, but do not take the road to, as I said, end up discrediting our own democratic system. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u305	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u306	We then proceed to discuss the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the reversal of hydroelectric jumps in line with territorial vertebration, general interest and public management, energy transition, social justice and legal certainty. Mr Luis Bail has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u307	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to be very intensive in the words I am going to say because we have been talking all day about the same, about the importance of sovereignty and the importance strikes to say about this initiative, about the reversal of hydroelectric jumps. When the People's Party itself was in the Government, our group presented a bill that did not veto precisely the importance and strategic and timely nature and justice behind this initiative. That is precisely why, because there is a great deal of importance, because there is a great deal of relevance to this strategic issue, there were intentions and discussions in the Pyrenees, and there was a great deal of consensus on the part of local entities of different signs and colours, and on the part of the groups representing them in the various autonomous and state forums, and in that consensus we came to put forward a motion whose objective is that there should be an impetus from the Government for that mandate, consensus and strategic vector to be carried out. We've been talking about this all day because we've been talking about sovereignty all day, but the importance of sovereignty is how we're talking about it, how we're talking about sovereignty, how we understand sovereignty and how we finally understand that sovereignty is not going to defend us by beating each other, and we're not going to defend it by rolling the flag around our necks, because we may end up drowning or because maybe we break some rib, but because we have a concept of constructive sovereignty, a concept of realistic, solvent and ambitious sovereignty to achieve the goals we have as a people. It is not defending the sovereignty of the territory, but the sovereignty of natural resources, the sovereignty of the rights of workers, the sovereignty of our people, the sovereignty of future generations, and of course the sovereignty of decision-making, because we often have discussions here about the inability we have had to defend sovereignty. [[The lady]] Alcoa workers come and all those people who are facing a traumatic closure of electrointensive companies tell us that they need help and that they need us to do something for them. Well, because of the expiration of concessions, it is time to do something for those people who are now asking us for more sovereignty, more capacity to decide and more resources to have a life project. It is not only that, but we would also be lying to people if we forced them to choose between arriving at the end of the month or having to decide between having a future or not because we have exhausted all the resources available to us as a country. We are facing a lot of affronts to the country, to the workers and to dignity. Right now we're producing in real time about 16% of hydraulic energy. According to data from the ministry itself, there are twelve concessionaires who have extinguished their concession continue to produce this energy, the resources of this country continue to be taken away, the rights of this country continue to be taken into account the benefits that their companies have. With this affront is what we have to work with. What have we achieved after doing the interpellation to the minister? We have reached a positive motion for the whole world thanks to the amendments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party and I think it will be very useful and it opens up the possibility of establishing a legal framework, legal certainty in the reversal of hydroelectric jumps with sufficient transparency and information to deal with cases that are not covered, such as the dismantling of infrastructure when the hydrological plan and sensitive areas so justify, facilitating and promoting the installation and character of water as a good of public interest and public domain. Moreover, this normative development leaves aside the exhausted model of investment-concession for a sector that is already mature and does not need any longer deadlines, because we are talking about a century, seventy-five years. The Supreme Court has already said that this cannot be achieved. They also have to be able to make a normative development where the public benefits of concessions, discounting the obvious and reasonable benefit for the operator, can always reverse in the affected territories, in the municipalities, in the holders of the hydraulic public domain and in all those that spill the territory. Other effects, for example, are the drop in the receipt of light to electricity consumers. In addition, all this opens concessions so that these companies can become reversible and we have a greater storage capacity or that, in particular, we can amend the Local Finance Regulatory Law to have a tax for the municipalities they currently lack. That is why I am telling you that this is an important development, a development that builds on a consensus on a bill that our group presented a few months ago. We hope that this initiative will be adequately taken into consideration by the Socialist Party Government and that we will be able to see it in successive royal decrees. When those decrees reach the House and we can treat them as bills, we will be able to agree and analyse the differences on the most direct management or through the formulas that other parties can put on the table. Of course, we have reached points of agreement and I believe that we can vote with a very broad consensus. That's why we've worked and that's why we think we're going to do it. Thank you very much for your vote and for the work that has been done by the Occidental parliamentarians of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the Speakers of Energy and the Environment and all those who have worked on this motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u308	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your group, Mr Lamuà Estañol is speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u309	Thank you, President. As the proposer has just mentioned, this motion has taken a few days of work to generate spaces of agreement and consensus, which is welcome. It's of great importance to us. He also mentioned the work of Members from the regions who would be positively affected by the fact that this motion is coming forward today. I just want to remind you that whoever was our environmental spokesman until recently has four GNPs approved in directions that are now also reflected in this motion, which is to be thanked for our part. They do not escape that the hydroelectric infrastructures of our country that began to be built during the first quarter of the twentieth century, in the case of the valleys of the Pyrenees, for example, mainly to supply industries of Catalonia or the Basque Country, were made by concessionary companies that cost the construction and commissioning of the plants, so, in return, they would receive a concession of operation for a certain time. At the end of the concession period, these plants would become part of the State. Almost a century after that start, concession periods have begun to expire; these plants are in practice fully amortized, well-maintained and operational. In other words, they are infrastructures that must revert to the public domain and that will be a good source of wealth generation for Spain. The State must reverse these infrastructures, some of which, today, still give small benefits to its concessionaries, even though some of them have exceeded the original deadline for the termination of concessions. It is time, therefore, for those benefits to start to reverse clearly and diaphanously in the territories that support them and in their environment as well. In our view, recovering these concessions must mean several things. Firstly, since water is a public property, it must be managed from the perspective of the general interest on the basis of the principle of basin unity. Such management, within the framework of a just energy transition, should also mean creating new opportunities for those territories. Secondly, the quality of the water, the maintenance of ecological flows and that all this is a guarantee of the maintenance of the different ecosystems and their biodiversity must be a priority that derives directly from this motion. Finally, it must also have an impact on the territorial restitution of the territories affected by having borne these infrastructures during that time, because in many cases it may have limited development even in some of these rural locations, where they already have difficulties added by comparison with more urban enclaves. Some data show that while adjacent territories have had more favourable development rates, all infrastructure derived from these power stations have in some cases slowed the benefits to these municipalities, and this is something that needs to be taken into account. In short, once the power stations are reversed, the public interest must prevail over the particular interests of electricity. We must ensure that these reversals are translated into an example of transparency and good management and that they contrast with some opacities that have obviously been taking place. Furthermore, we must be aware of the local impact of such reversals. The loss of income resulting from the extinction of the IAE, for example, will affect the income of many municipalities in small municipalities and their budgets on an ordinary basis. We must therefore also take whatever measures are necessary and in whatever areas are necessary to ensure that the wealth generated by these power stations also reverts in a just and justified way to those areas of our geography, which would also be the demonstration that we manage for a common good. I'm done. The rapporteur was talking about sovereignty and consensus and I think it is a good day to mention the consensus after the debate we had this morning. History teaches us that it is very difficult to reach a consensus and that it is more difficult to maintain it, but it also teaches us that in politics consensus is or should be one of the most precious treasures for any politician who wants to be proud of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u310	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u311	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unite Podemos presents this motion on the reversal of hydroelectric leaps in line with territorial vertebration, the general interest, public management, energy transition and legal certainty, all of which are indispensable elements in order to promote and give the necessary importance to these disadvantaged and unpopulated municipalities that host these infrastructures. Ladies and gentlemen, all the technologies of the Spanish energy mix are fundamental, they all have their time, they all have their purpose and they all have their why, and among them the hydropower, which in addition to being fundamental is a key ally for the development of the energy transition and compliance with the 2015 Paris Agreement, maintains prices, does not emit CO2 and because of its form of storage it is essential to maintain security of supply. It is a technology that, as has been said here, accounts for 20% of the installed power in Spain and that in this year 2018, a rainy year, has produced 16.9% of energy. It is also a technology that based on the old The Water Act began to reverse the State after the seventy-five years of concession had expired. That is why the People's Group, which shares some of the proposals made to this Government, also calls for them to be improved and implemented. For the People's Group, the solution is not only to recover concessions, but also to recover the rigour, to make the necessary investments, to have a safe operation and, if possible, that instead of costing taxpayers some profits. A hydroelectric power plant requires precision in its machinery such as that of a clock. We understand that the best way to return is to subsidize the concession; that is, for a reasonable period of time and by dividing the income among all the agents affected by it, the taxpayers, the water confederation, the electricity consumers and, of course, the municipalities affected. There are already reversed power stations in Spain whose new managers have been unable to prepare for start-up. Therefore, gentlemen of United We can say that the respective governments have been benevolent with the big electrics is to throw a half truth turned into a fallacy. Not all power stations have the same performance, not all power stations have the same benefits, not all power stations are the object of desire on the part of public administrations. That's why you, gentlemen of United We can, are sometimes victims of your incongruities. On the one hand, they are seeking public management of hydroelectric power stations and, on the other, unfortunately, on 11 September, my parliamentary group presented a proposal for a law which left the Government with the power to close or to continue the electricity installations, and there you, the governing partners of the Socialist and Citizens Party, unfortunately, voted against it. There you were on the side of the big electrics and against the people who, like me, live in areas affected by some kind of power plant. What incongruity, ladies and gentlemen. You are sometimes able to blow and sip at once. The members of the People's Group will once again be consistent with what we stand for. We will continue to defend the same, either in the Aragonese Pyrenees, or wherever I live, in my mining region, or in Congress, or in the opposition or when we are ruling, because the People's Group has a clear and unique idea to address the Spanish energy system. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to improve the text which includes some of the proposals from Unite Podemos and which also includes increasing income from benefits for the territory. We will try to reach a compromise with the various political groups because we understand that we are able, in the house of national sovereignty, to reach an agreement on the basis of the general interest, of those affected and of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke first of all at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u313	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is one of those omnibus motions in which it is materially impossible to refer to all its contents, in this case on the reversal of hydroelectric jumps. I will start at the end, announcing that I will not support the original text of this motion because it is an interventionist parliamentary initiative, in which, on the basis of the particular interpretation of sovereignty and on the line of the sanction of the National Commission on Markets and Competition to a certain electric company for acts of five years ago, the entire hydroelectric exploitation sector is put in sulfide. The Government is also urged to promote measures that would put up those involved in the use of hydraulics for the generation of electricity and those harmed would eventually be consumers, as we are talking about a very important technology within the Spanish energy mix that is, by the way, being colossally affected by the decisions of fundamentalist ecology with place in the Council of Ministers. To speak today of a just transition is a terrible sarcasm for the Asturians. The spokesman of União Podemos has invoked a lot of legislation and regulations, but it has obviated the most important one, the Spanish Constitution, and it is our fundamental text through several of its articles that makes explicit reference to the legislation, planning and granting of hydraulic resources and gives the State the competence when the waters run by more than one autonomous community. It is not that it is not that it forgets to give specific competences to the autonomys, since, in fact, it attributes to them capacity on the projects, construction and exploitation of the hydraulic exploitations, canals and irrigations of interest of the autonomous community in the mineral and thermal waters. You, with this initiative - I repeat, interventionist to a high degree - would mess with this part of the energy sector that is regulated by a law of the electric sector that, like the Constitution, also ignores. In any case - and I conclude with this, Madam President - the procedures for reversion to the State of concessions that end their temporary validity are guaranteed. And since we are in a state of law, the courts are endorsing the transition from private to public management when the concession period ends and also the administration of 25% of a hydroelectric production or its economic value cash and sound to be used for restitution actions in those valleys affected by the reservoirs whose waters are used. That is why, Madam President, if they remain in their original terms and there is no compromise text that attenuates the interventionist momentum of United Podemos, I will not support this motion as a result of questioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u314	Thank you very much. By the same group, Mr Postius Terrado intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u315	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking briefly. In connection with this questionable motion, I would like to make a couple of points on behalf of my group. First of all, I would like to remind you that, in everything that refers to the internal basins of Catalonia, the Generalitat today has the exclusive competence of its management. In this sense, the minimum environmental flows are closely linked to the hydroelectric plants in Catalonia and since the Generalitat, work has been done to ensure that today 50% of the rivers within these basins have guaranteed minimum environmental flows, a figure that will reach 100% by 2020. On the other hand, and in all that concerns the Water Management Plan and in order to comply with the Water Framework Directive, which is also closely linked to the issue we are dealing with today, the Generalitat of Catalonia has been demanding from the holders of concessions that river connectors are created or that existing physical barriers be dismantled once the concessions are completed. We can assure you that a remarkable effort is being made to comply with this European directive, to meet all the objectives that are set out from Europe. We could therefore agree with points 1 and 2 of the proposal, although we disagree a little with the approach taken in the other points, but as these have been modified as a result of the incorporation of various amendments, we will analyse it and tomorrow we will fix a position in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u317	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. The exploitation of hydroelectric jumps, of course, has had and is of great importance in the electrical system. The main common objectives of the motion are that the benefits of the power stations become public ownership without delay, after the expiration of the concessions, and that the resources obtained transferred to local institutions or to the autonomous communities be reversed with criteria of economic and social restitution in the affected territories, favoring a greater vertebration of the affected areas and supporting a process of energy transition towards a more sustainable model. Among other things, it provides for the development of a stable legal framework for the reversal of hydroelectric leaps and proposes a procedure for the reversal prior to the end of the concession. In this regard, it proposes that the reverse cases be initiated a few years before the concessions in their respective territories expire and are resolved within one year. It should be said that the large part of concessions granted between the fifties and seventies and the model of exploitation of them is based on the fact that, in exchange for the particular investments necessary for the construction of the jumps, the Administration granted to the promoters a concession of exploitation of the waters with a duration of seventy-five years, subject to the condition that, at the end of the period, the facilities would revert to the State. The Ministry of the Environment in 2010 revised the fees for hydropower plants operating in the form of concession, as investments made were largely considered to be amortized; even formulas were considered to recover some concessions from hydropower plants before their expiry, something legally complicated and burdensome, especially for the compensation for loss of profits that should be paid to the concessionaires. As we have stated, in accordance with the applicable sectoral rules, the expiry of concessions for the eight hundred State hydroelectric power stations operated by private companies should, where appropriate, entail their reversal to the State. However, different governments at the national level throughout several legislatures as well as different public administrations have been pointed out for failing to process or over-extend the expiry files of some concessions upon expiry. The first expiry and subsequent public recovery of a hydroelectric jump in Spain did not occur until 2013, and came with much delay and delay, which caused the concessionaire to continue operating the power plant and obtaining revenues beyond the concession period. Therefore, the motion under analysis aims to avoid these undesirable administrative situations and, since from this year 2018 a succession of concessions will be expected to reach forty-seven in a decade, we understand that it is time to review the role of hydrological exploitation. Once the motion has been analyzed, we understand that a measure that could be applied, in line with what the ministry itself is working on, would be the possibility of recovering some concessions as they win and taking them out at public auction. It would even be reasonable to see what was proposed by the Sustainability Observatory, which recommends the recovery of all hydroelectric uses and rebidding them or not, but certainly under favourable conditions for the common interest. We understand that expired concessions should go to competition, a competition that should be settled before the expiry of the concession and in which even a period of learning should be allowed if there was a new successful tenderer. All this, to avoid above all the stoppage of installations at the end of the concessional period - which is what is currently happening - as this causes a very significant deterioration of the installations. However, we have to say that the experience we have had in the societies in which we have participated suggests that it is perhaps very difficult for the municipalities to manage these facilities. And with regard to the time limits for concessions, we understand that, despite the fact that the motion establishes a four-year period, it is a matter that should be discussed as long as it is a time-limit that is conditional on the realization of investments, although it must be said that the transactional period increases this time-limit by five years. Another issue that needs to be considered is that, following the reversal in the cases of concessions already declared obsolete, since the State is the holder of the holding is exempt from the payment of the tax on economic activities, which is currently paid by the hydroelectric companies, which may have a significant negative economic impact on municipal revenues. Perhaps it would be possible to think not only of the exemption from that tax, but of an economic compensation to the municipalities that stop receiving these revenues. Having said all this, we understand that this motion contains key points with which we agree, but we also understand that there are issues that need to be addressed in greater depth. We will wait to position ourselves until tomorrow, since there is an aspect in point 5 of the transactional that speaks of the obligation of the plants to follow the slogans of the system operator, that is, it orders, gives no option and therefore can be understood as a control. We also have doubts about Directive 2009/72, which provides that the same person or persons cannot exercise control over a generation or supply undertaking and at the same time exercise control or any right over a transmission system operator or a transmission system. Similarly, control over a transmission system or a transmission system operator should exclude the possibility of exercising control or any right over a generation or supply undertaking. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u318	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u319	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of the motion tabled by the Confederal Group of the United People's Party on the review of hydraulic jumps, hydroelectric jumps which are currently managed by private companies, but also - let us remember - by entities of direct public management of a communal type or a public enterprise, although this is not really the problem. We should ask ourselves why the Government is currently being urged to regain direct management of a public domain property, water, whose ownership is ultimately public. The answer is that some are failing to comply with hydraulic legislation and concessional obligations, a regulation that precisely allows them to manage a public good of general interest, such as water. They believe in the full right of the use of jumps without taking into account the counter-performances corresponding to the management of a public good, the temporary nature of the concession and full transparency, two fundamental elements in order to be able to speak of a positive management. And they also confuse ownership and concessional law with interest in an attempt to patrimonialize and privatize water management. This is a perception of water management that ends up damaging the model we are talking about. But let's get to the bottom of it. Last Wednesday, September 26, the weekly El Temps published an investigation into the end of the concessions of hydroelectric power plants in the Catalan Pyrenees, owned by Endesa, and the continued exploitation of the company. The controversy arose as a result of a report by the Sustainability Observatory entitled Recovery of Hydroelectric Concessions. Two Italian companies, one with a majority public capital, Enel, and the other controlled by the Benetton family, Atlantis, decided to invest in Endesa and Abertis in 2009 knowing perfectly well that many of the concessions that protected their businesses were expired or about to expire. Even so, they did so with the aim of achieving an implicit or explicit extension of the time limits for the exploitation of concessions. This is what happens to the hydroelectric plants that ENEL has in the Pyrenees, inherited from the former companies Fecsa and Enher, which Endesa absorbed in 1999. Eight of the concessions that support its private operation - Cabdella, Seròs, Talarn, Camarasa, la Pobla, Sant Llorenç de Montgai, Gavet and Terradets, all in the regions of Lleida - are already expired, according to the maximum period of seventy-five years that marks the Water Act 2001. In the case of these eight hydroelectric power stations, their reversal to the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, which precisely manages the concessions, would have to have occurred years ago. The concession periods, as set out in the Waters Act, are seventy-five years and throughout the State are coming to an end historic hydraulic concessions and we therefore urgently need to address what we intend to do with all these plants. In that regard, we were pleased to hear the Minister's words the other day, which sees in this reversal a unique opportunity to be able to review and rethink the role of these hydroelectric exploitations in aspects such as, for example, precisely the management of the basins, the improvement of the ecological state of the water bodies and the contribution of these leaps to the energy transition and the stability of the national electricity system. We also share the view that the hydraulics administration has to assess in the first instance to what extent a exploitation may or may not be financially viable; to what extent, if it is not feasible or if its maintenance is contrary to the public interest, it must require the demolition of the infrastructures that are located there, or to what extent it may be possible to compete in a package of bases, perhaps modulated or changing or according to an update of the general interest, with different prescriptions that allow us to test and facilitate this other type of options taking into account different aspects of the public interest, whether of an environmental, economic or social nature. Progress in the debate is important, but for now everything remains in words and we really need concrete action. That's the problem we're dealing with. On the other hand, one of the conclusions that we have been able to corroborate in the subcommission for water policies and the challenges of climate change is that the increase in water supply and the regularity of contributions will force us, I repeat, to change the current management and governance model, models that at the moment cannot really withstand the climate changes that come upon us. Water is a public domain asset and, as such, must be managed; examples of direct water management models are increasingly being used. Transparency and public control are the models that are really being asked for at the moment, transparency and public control are social demands and we are seeing it precisely on issues such as Catalonia, as mentioned in the past debates. We cannot leave in the hands of markets and speculative management models such a precious and increasingly scarce asset. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u320	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u321	President, colleagues, the title of the motion unites two groups of words - general interest and public management - which do not always succeed by going together; in fact, I believe that linking these two groups of words can continually lead to error as to how different projects work or can succeed. Nor will the territorial conflict be resolved, nor will there be any insularity between the territories, because in order to resolve the territorial conflict in Spain, a new system of autonomous financing would have to be put in place and it is not being done. Entering the situation of hydroelectric plants in Spain, we know that there are concessions for seventy-five years, we know that recently they are coming to an end and we know that we are facing a completely uncertain horizon in terms of management. Hydraulics is a vital source for our energy system, it is also an economic activity and is also environmentally sustainable. Hydropower production, for colleagues who do not know, accounts for almost 20% of our country's installed power, and in the average hydraulic years it has reached 15% of our country's energy demand coverage. That is why we believe it is a technology of vital importance, but we also have our reluctance to how it has been managed so far. Hydraulics do not assume a variable cost, the raw material - water - of public management, is free, however it is a technology that can define the price in the marginal market; in fact, in the last five months this technology has been the one that has set the price at 50% of the cases. We therefore believe that it is important that all variants be addressed and, among them, that, despite not being a broadcasting source, it is benefiting from these allowances, since the price that is ultimately fixed is fixed by fossil fuel sources which are actually aggravating the allowances. Therefore, when we approach the problem of our mix it has to be a little more open and much more complex than it seems here. For the market, as I say, there is generally a need for future signals for technologies to be able to invest or project their investment. What happens is that the situation of hydraulics is totally different, in the short and medium term no one plans to make such investments, with which the forecast is not so necessary if we talk about this particular source. We think it is right that an analysis process should be opened at the time to the improvement of hydraulic management, in which we agree. We also agree that it is necessary to check that there is no bad practice in the dealership, how it is managed or whether or not water is retained to set a price. But we do not agree that it should be done in a radical way and thinking that the only solution for this is public management, in that we do not agree. This motion, as I say, gives everything or almost everything to public administration. We also see in this motion that information is requested - we believe it is important that there is always information and transparency - which is already public, is published and is data managed by the Ministry of Ecological Transition. What we propose here is that it conflicts precisely with the regulation of the European Union. A State cannot be a judge and a party, a State cannot be a regulator and at the same time a part of the energy business. We therefore believe that it links or violates that Community law or that Community regulation. As regards the ways in which concessions are to be made, as I say, new specifications must be developed for new concessions or for new renovation projects when these expire, but always without violating the regulation already established from Europe. For us it is impossible for the control of energy prices to be part of or decided by the Government or the autonomous communities. We are in a market where we cannot end up managing or saying 'this is going to cost this' simply because the state at that time considers it or any autonomous community. As I say, in this motion we see a glimpse of the will to create chiringuitos over and over again; that is, to continue to increase the expenditure of the Administration or to allocate public resources to manage something for which the State is currently not prepared. We agree to review the specifications, we agree that it is rigorous with the use and misuse of concessions, although we believe that public management is not the option that guarantees this. But to express our position we will wait for the text to come out definitively tomorrow of the compromise amendment that we believe is being made by the rest of the parties. As I said, we have many points in common, but there are key points on which we do not agree and let us hope that tomorrow they will be resolved. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u322	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Luis Bail whether he accepts any of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u323	We are coming to a compromise that will be presented before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u324	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the policies of the Government in employment and training. [[File number 173/000128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u325	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress on Government Policies in Employment and Training. Mr Candón Adam has the floor for the initiative and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u326	Thank you, Madam President. In the People's Party we are very clear that globalization and digitisation are reducing distances and offering us a unique opportunity for Spain to be a leading OECD nation. The reforms undertaken by the Government of the People's Party have, among their objectives, faced the changes that our country needs and placed Spain on the path of recovery, growth and the creation of stable and quality jobs. These reforms have enabled us to gain competitiveness and more and more companies are selling abroad. In March 2018 we approved the 300×100 Plan with €525 million over four years to bring fiber optics to all peoples, especially the smallest in the rural world, thus closing the digital geographical divide. Today we know that for every two jobs lost in the real economy five are created in digital. This is a training plan aimed at bridging the digital divide and has been made possible by the development of the new vocational training system for employment; the social dialogue, which has facilitated the active participation of business and trade union organisations in the design and programming of the training offer; and the sectoral joint commissions, which have helped to identify the needs of the twenty-three productive sectors. In order for Spain to grow, it is necessary to boost the human capital and employability of all workers, an adaptation between the supply and demand for qualifications is necessary, which requires anticipation of the needs of enterprises and the provision of training to all workers, and especially young people, adapted to these needs. Industry 4.0 today obliges us to rethink vocational training programmes. Vocational training for employment must play a key role in the development of these changes. We must improve education and training in new technologies. It is clear that the speed of use of these technologies depends on the ability of our educational system to facilitate access to them for our children and young people, but also for citizens who are working or unemployed. We must bet decisively on the Vocational Training for Employment Act, which must not be forgotten that it was adopted with broad agreement in this Parliament and with the support of the social partners. All the necessary resources must be provided for dual vocational training, in order to ensure the necessary adaptation between the supply and demand for qualifications, and to provide all with training tailored to the needs of enterprises. This Government has to implement the National Plan for the Training of Workers in Digital Skills, approved with the consensus of the Autonomous Communities and the social partners and endowed with 60 million euros. We must ensure the proper use of employment guidance and training funds by the Autonomous Communities. And finally, we must boost the Youth Guarantee bonus of the training and learning contract, approved in the 2018 State General Budgets, so that young people under the age of 30 registered in the Youth Guarantee can be trained and work at the same time with a total remuneration of more than 1000 euros. Madam President, I would like to conclude with a farewell. This is the last time I will have the privilege of defending my group's position from this rostrum. From the 27th I will have the honour of doing so in the Parliament of Andalusia, and I would like to end by thanking all of you. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] There is no greater honor for a deputy like me in the province, a Gaditan who loves his land, Cadiz, Andalusia and Spain, than having served the Spaniards since this Congress of Deputies in the last seven years. I leave here great friends, excellent people who carry me in my heart, my group and all of you - with some I have had more and others less relationship, but all of you -. Everyone knows that they have their home in my house, although I ask you not to come all at once because it will be complicated. [[Laughter]] Besides, they know I'll get them with a cup of fine fresh. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] I have learned a lot from all of you, from my groupmates, who have endured me and endured me until the last moment; from the principles, values and vocation of service to Spain that we share. And, if I may, I have also learned a lot from those of you who criticize Spain the most. Even the worst shows we've ever had in this House show that talking bad about Spain is also a very Spanish way of being Spanish, even if you don't believe it. [[Laughter]] I bid farewell with two words that I borrowed from the first Constitution of the Spanish nation that was written in Cadiz in 1812. Article 6 of the Pepa said: 'Love of the homeland is one of the main obligations of all Spaniards and also to be just and beneficial'. That is what I wish you, that you may be just and beneficial. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen, some of them standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u327	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which in this turn also sets out its position, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, as an amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u328	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me to join in the applause of farewell to Mr Candon and wish him the greatest success in his future responsibilities in Andalusia at the service of his land. Any initiative that places job creation as one of the major political, social and economic priorities is relevant, necessary and timely, because there are still figures that we must worry about and that are a consequence of the socialist policies that, from 2008, after promising full employment from the Government, left the labour market in Spain as an erial one. Today, when we talk about employment, there are reasons for alarm. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u329	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u330	The data released last week shows, on the one hand, that there are 3 253 000 unemployed, a high figure in absolute terms, also in relative terms, of 14.55 %, and of course an unacceptable figure in human terms. Employment creation is therefore slowing down. Social Security lost more than 47,000 contributors in November than in October, the largest participant outflow in a month of November since 2013. I quote the relevant case of Asturias, my community of origin, in which the bad data were sharpened by registering the worst in Spain in social security affiliations and by widening the lists of unemployment, unlike the national average. The decadence continues unstoppable because the same path continues to lead us to the same fate. We think that the measures proposed by the People's Group are correct, but they are insufficient, and that is why we have tabled an amendment adding that we call on the Government to take policies to correct the instability of the labour market and to contribute to the integration of young people into jobs. In this regard, I would also like to highlight some recommendations to ensure, in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, that social and employment services have the capacity to effectively support job seekers, in particular through better mechanisms and instruments for cooperation with employers. I also urge the Government to promote the transition to indefinite contracts with the aim of combating precariousness and, finally, I stress the need to promote the competitiveness of companies through the recycling of their workers in order to acquire digital technological skills. There seems to be a huge labour market in this respect. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u331	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Postius has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u332	Thank you, Madam President. As has been said, since the Democratic Party we have tabled an amendment calling, first of all, for a new system of training for employment to be agreed with the social partners and the autonomous communities, guaranteeing autonomous skills in this area and the effective link between training resources and the real needs of businesses, especially SMEs. A second point calls for strengthening the right of workers and self-employed to lifelong learning. Thirdly, to support the development of dual vocational training, a model of success in Catalonia and which are also promoting other autonomous communities. Finally, it should be ensured that the social security resources corresponding to the training quota are fully implemented during the corresponding budget year. Our group, if this amendment is accepted, will vote in favour of the proposal and, if not, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u333	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u334	Thank you, Madam President. My intention was to come up here and talk about the motion for vocational training and employment, they know that I am a fairly technical person and I like to debate and debate a lot about employment, but I know Mr Candón, I have a good friendship with him, I think he is a great guy, a good person and a great professional. Therefore, after listening to your words today, the body does not ask me to discuss it is a day to celebrate; I think this House loses a great parliamentarian, but I am sure that the Andalusian Parliament will win a great parliamentarian and a great person and I wish you all the luck of the world. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: What a detail!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor at the time of the position-setting by the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u336	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Mr Del Campo has made it difficult for me because it is obviously first of all up to me to say goodbye to Mr Candon but also to thank him for the good times we have shared and for the good debates that have allowed us to grow both personally and professionally. Thank you very much, Mr. Candon. I will be as respectful as possible within a certain area of discrepancy with your initiative because it is clear that we should urge the Government to persevere in the employment policies that have already existed by a previous Government. But let us also remember that for the same reasons that we disagreed with the employment policies of the previous Government it is now appropriate to remember that this initiative rejects the employment policies implemented by other institutions, by the autonomous communities, in which you know that the Basque Government in particular, as a result of a ruling by the Constitutional Court, must have taken on some active employment policies, which has not so far happened, and the fact is that it has not yet been resolved by the new Government. However and understanding that this area of discrepancy will be able to be resolved in the future, I will show a certain degree of benevolence and, although I was going to announce my vote against, I will try to move my group towards abstention because I understand that you intend with your personality to push it towards a certain situation of concordance and meeting places and I will also do so. I will, of course, ask both the People's Party and the Socialist Party and anyone else who is part of the construction of these employment policies to take into account those that have been successful. In other words, there is a way to find solutions to certain problems and that of those people who are not only in an unemployment situation but who are in sociological places with greater difficulty in finding employment must have solutions found precisely by the nearest institutions. It has been shown that autonomous policies in this regard have been more effective than other State policies. That is why we also believe that these employment policies in the State should be directed towards empowering the autonomous communities, as has happened in the context of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, for which we are still calling for some questions and will continue to insist even in the absence of Mr Candón. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u337	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u338	I've been thinking about this for a while, and since I know this is recorded and it's for history and for the annals of this country, I don't know if I'm gonna regret it, but I think I'm gonna say it so that it's in the Journal of Sessions. [[laughs]] I never thought I'd say anything like that to someone in this House and less to a Member of the People's Party, but we're gonna miss him and I'm gonna say something that I think is one of the prettiest things you can say to someone and that is that you're a good person and you put human quality to this place. [[Applause.- Various Members: Good!]] Send us the address for the fine one, who never knows the laps that life gives. [[Laughter]] I'm not going to be like my partner Sergio and I'm going to give him the woodwork to make up for it. [[Laughter]] Today the People's Party brings us an initiative to talk about vocational training in employment. They tell us about providing the necessary resources, implementing plans and ensuring the proper use of funds. It will never cease to surprise me, the truth, the nature with which they say these things after having been ruling the country for seven years, really not. In 2015 the People's Party passed a law to regulate vocational training for employment and did, of course, unilaterally and without counting anyone, very much like the People's Party. The employer, the representation of workers, parliamentary groups, autonomous communities and other social actors publicly showed their reservations with the text and the possible usefulness it might have. Time sadly proved that they were right, which usually happens when everyone agrees on something but an actor. The new law did not have defined objectives, it did not define whether it sought to train workers for strategic sectors or to increase the training of certificates of professionalism or to reconvert the skills of unemployed people, or a specific objective. Obviously, it also lacked regulatory stability, as the logical consequence when you draw up such an important law on everyone's back is that they end up using the courts, the Constitutional Court and the National Court, and that the employment training system is therefore blocked. Nor did the text exercise effective control over the funds of the different autonomous communities - I do not think it is necessary to mention what happened in Andalusia - nor did it have mechanisms to assess the quality of training and its real impact on employment. This leads, among other things, to the absence of a real link between the training offer and the needs of the productive fabric. In short, they didn't even know if it was for something or not and neither did it seem to matter much, but misfortune never comes alone and with the People's Party even less. Apart from the above, the implementation of the financial envelope for vocational training programmes for employment has been reduced from 70 % in 2011 to 50 % at present. What does this mean to understand us, to explain it more clearly? That of the 0.1% that we pay all the working people in this country on our payroll plus 0.6% that employers, self-employed people and SMEs pay every month for vocational training, the government only used half. What about the rest of the money? And the other half where did he go? The state and autonomous training offer fell by more than half between 2010 and 2016 and increased bonuses. The People's Party also unilaterally created the notorious training and learning contract, which makes it possible to extend precariousness for three years by earning less wages and, in addition, the money from the European Youth Guarantee is now being used to subsidize this precariousness. In short, in conclusion, all working people in the country along with self-employed people and SMEs pay religiously a percentage of our salary every month to finance vocational training for employment. Half of that money doesn't go to training and, worse, we don't know where it goes. The training offered by SEPE only covers one in ten unemployed persons and eight in ten of the persons who participated in the professional certificates indicate that it has served them very little to find employment. We see how the labour laws of the previous government are used to hire young people with the alibi of training and learning, with a salary of between 25% and 15% lower, leaving the social security contribution that employers should pay to us all with our taxes and all this, as I said before, for three years. And, in case there is little money coming from Europe to make it easier for younger people to get decent jobs, we use it to subsidise precariousness by paying entrepreneurs every month 430 euros of public money, of all and of all, to save them on salaries. And of course, when this fabulous period of formation ends, to the street and to start again, to seek life. This is said to be a splendid management, in a country with 15% unemployment and the second highest youth unemployment rate in Europe, no less than 36%. For an idea, Germany has a youth unemployment rate of 6%. I'm done. Two things are urgent, which are also crucial for the future of the country and in which we could agree a large majority in this House. On the one hand, training for employment must be adapted to the different realities that make up our country, run away from the generic and increase specific training, in coordination with the productive fabric that really exists. To give an example, the use of languages perfectly explains what I am saying. On the other hand, we must push and prepare for the change of productive model, which is already here. I am talking about renewable energy transition, I am talking about digitization and robotics, and I am talking, of course, about the care revolution, which will affect millions of people in our country, women and also men. This is going to be a reality sooner or later, so we better get ready. We all know that it is impossible to change a productive model if training is not geared towards it. We are in a country with one of the largest GDP in the world and, therefore, the working people of this country deserve us to live up to it. Finally, I want to say that as much as we have the best vocational training system in the world, if we have labour legislation that is based on creating precariousness, precariousness and precariousness, the only thing people will do, however prepared they are, is to flee our labour market and go look for chickpeas elsewhere. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your generosity and all the luck of the gentleman world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u339	Mrs de Frutos Madrazo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u340	Good afternoon. Since I can't be less, you know that I wish you the best of heart and, moreover, as we have already agreed in other forums that are not Congress but in debates and talks, I have to tell you that you are a wonderful person and that I wish you all the luck of the world. [[Applauds]] Now, as my partner Alberto, I'm going to go to the subject. In this motion, the PP basically urges the Government to improve the employability of people by improving their training, their skills, by relying on vocational training for employment, dual training and the Youth Guarantee bonus. Even if it looks like one of those motions that everyone in principle can support, we are not going to support it, and we are not going to do it for four basic reasons. The first of these is for the absolute lack of self-criticism of the People's Party. What surprised me most when I started reading the motion was: When the PSOE ruled..., and they refer to the PSOE government until 2011. They have been forgotten, they have made a temporary parentheses, which from December 2011 to June 2018 ruled the PP, and the People's Party from the Ministry of Employment was unable to design adequate dual training systems, ensuring this compatibility of training and work to reach a stable job, and all its reforms in dual training at the end resulted in underemployment of young workers at zero cost, impoverishment of young workers, without alternative employment and also gradually forgetting training. Because, what did the People's Party do when it said it was betting on dual formation? Very easily, as soon as he entered the Government, in 2012, he reformed article 11, under the pretext that he was going to enhance this dual training and what he did was to destroy the formative purpose of training contracts. And under the mask of regulating dual formation, what he did was create a very different duality. With the application of this article 11 we had, on the one hand, untrained young people who did not obtain any qualifications, despite being recruited with training, nor did they have a stable job and, on the other hand, we had young graduates who worked with those training contracts in already precarious sectors and with lower wages than an ordinary worker. Why did the PP turn dual training into this element of precariousness? On very specific issues. First, because it made the requirements of the training contract more flexible. Because it made it possible to conclude training contracts with qualified workers. Because it allowed the chaining of training contracts. Because it reduced the number of hours of theoretical training in training contracts. Because it abolished the demand for real training, giving priority to distance training, which made it possible for the worker, together with the business practice of dedicating the work intended for theoretical training to effective work, to terminate the training contract without any degree. All this with 100% bonuses that made the entrepreneur believe that training contracts were cheap employment at zero cost. Therefore, bringing us this motion now as advocates of dual formation is a little surprising to us. Not to mention the exaggerated drive of non-employment practices through scholarships; the inability to manage the resources of the youth guarantee and its own young employment strategy; the unemployment rate, which has already been mentioned here, and the abandonment of public employment services, depriving it of policies such as counselling or guidance, all closely linked to training. What you did is destroy the dual information. Nor did they provide much in terms of training for workers over the age of 45. With labour reform, with the easing of the causes of dismissal, many workers of this age went to the street. There are no specific retraining programmes or training actions for relocation, despite the fact that there were funds from the European Union. In addition, they were left unprotected by abolishing the allowance for over fifty-two years of age. The second reason why we are not going to support this is why my colleague has already pointed out, because there are issues that are already under way, such as the law on vocational training for employment and the national plan for the training of workers for digital tasks. The third reason is that we have always been against wage supplementation in training contracts, because they deepen precariousness, wage devaluation, introduce elements of discrimination and, as Europe says, generate social dumping and do not deepen the quality of employment. Our proposal is to increase the minimum wage, to control the requirements of training contracts and thus to ensure that workers with a training contract have genuine dual training and a decent wage. Finally, and the fourth reason why we are not going to support his motion, is because this Government has already drawn up a youth employment shock plan within the framework of the social dialogue, with multiple actions relating to training through training programmes in key competences and digital competences; through training programmes of commitment to recruitment; through specific training on equal terms to avoid horizontal segregation and the wage gap; in practices to improve the management of the youth guarantee; enhancement of genuine dual training by controlling training contracts and for learning; bet by guidance and specialized itineraries as an essential element and addressing a status of non-work practices. Of course, this Government is going to work for quality employment, for training, for the qualification and occupation of the most vulnerable groups and also for their protection, recovering the allowance for over fifty-two years of age. It seems to us that this type of motion, not recognizing the deterioration that dual formation has suffered with you and if you continue to blame the Socialist Party that ruled in the period before yours, does not make much sense. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u341	Thank you. I ask Mr Candon Adam whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u342	Yes, President. We're preparing a transactional, which we'll pass.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-12-CD181212.u343	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for reaching this hour. Thank you very much, Mr Candón, for your work in this House. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. [[Applauds]] It was seven and forty minutes in the afternoon.
