ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, do you intend to assume any political responsibility as a result of the ruling of the National Court in the Gürtel case?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u4	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The sentence does not condemn anyone in my Government, it does not condemn anyone who is now a member of the People's Party, it does not condemn the People's Party, as some people do; it establishes civil liability as a participant in a lucrative capacity for a fact that occurred fifteen years ago in two municipalities, and it also clarifies that the People's Party did not know those facts for which that responsibility is established, which is the condition for being a participant in a lucrative capacity, as it has repeatedly - and I suppose you know it - the Supreme Court and it says the very sentence to which you refer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u6	Mr Rajoy, I see that it is irrelevant to you that a court of justice has sentenced the treasurer of your party - to whom you were texting - to more than thirty years in prison; that a court has said that your party, of which you are president, had a B box. You'd think it was irrelevant. [[Rumors]] You have done nothing, you have not assumed political responsibilities, you have not resigned. Yeah, well, he did one thing: cancel the trip to Kiev. But, look, I'm going to tell you one thing about what you do to distinguish between being president of the party and being president of the government. We will demand political responsibility for what you have done as President of the Government. Besides, do you know how this game is going to do it? He's going to do it by paying attention to you. You came here on August 30th and gave us lessons in constitutional law and told us that we were going to the motion of censure. Well, we're going to the motion of censure. Don't get so upset when we go to the motion of censure! [[Applauds]] Do you know why we're going to the motion of censure? Because you, not as president of the party but as president of the government, have done the following. Do you remember the calvary he submitted to Judge Pablo Ruz when he investigated the Gürtel case? His finance minister can say that he did not give Mr. Ruz any documentation and had to intervene the prosecutor's office. [[Applauds]] But I will tell you more, a court of justice and the prosecutor's office have said in their final conclusions that you as president of the government have no credibility, or what is the same: you have failed to tell the truth in the statement before the courts. And he did it to cover up the corruption of his party. [[Applauds]] This is a proven fact, it is an assessment of a trial that a court makes, against which there is no cassation. And you know what? A President of the Government who has no credibility in the courts of justice has no credibility for the stability that this country needs. So, Mr. Rajoy, please pay attention to the prosecution and the courts. You have no credibility and therefore Spain needs a president of the government who is credible, trusting and stable. [[A Member of Parliament: There, there, there!- Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u8	On political responsibilities, Mrs Robles, I will tell you the following. I have submitted myself to the control of this Parliament on countless occasions, for example today; I have submitted myself to a motion of censure, but the majority of the House did not censor me; since the facts to which you refer are known, I have presented myself on three occasions to the general elections: 2011 - I won them -, 2015 - I won them - and 2016 - I won them - and I received in all three a much greater confidence than you received. Perhaps his inquisitorial approach is not shared by the rest of the mortals. Look, not many dates ago we discussed here whether to dismiss the defendant, the investigator, the one mentioned in an oral trial or the convicted person. Not now, now that person who is neither investigated, accused nor subjected to an oral or convicted trial seems to have to resign as well. Torquemada's back. [[Rumors]] I don't mean you, either. [[Laughter and applause]] In any case, Mrs. Robles, political responsibilities should be asked to the one who wants to be president of the government in any way as long as he doesn't have to go through the ballot boxes, because when he goes through the ballot boxes what he gets is to get in 2015 the worst result of his party's history and in 2016 the worst result of his party's history. If you go to the polls - that is why you run away from them and raise the motion of censure - it is impossible, as you know better than I do, for you to be able to reach the Presidency of the Government. You have to use shortcuts and twisting systems. Thank you very much. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE DEVELOPING PARLAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WILL THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT DEVELOP? [[File number 180/00631]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u10	He asks now of the deputy Don Gabriel Rufián Romero, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u11	Thank you very much, President. Mr Rajoy, Mr President, I will certainly ask you the simplest question you have asked in your thirty-five years of parliamentary activity. I'm doing it with a sentence on the table that qualifies your party as a huge corruption machine. The question is: will the President of the Government resign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u13	I see that you are referring to a different judgment than I thought we were dealing with this morning, but I will answer your question directly. I have a mandate from the citizens, who gave my party more than fifty seats than the second. I have a mandate from this House, which elected me President on its day and which, at least at the moment, has not withdrawn it from me and, as you know, the terms are for four years. That gives stability, security and certainty, which I believe is essential in order to continue the process of economic recovery that we started in its day. Therefore, my intention is to fulfil the Spanish mandate and the mandate of this House, especially after approving the budgets last week. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u15	Mr. President, just like the Spaniards who voted for him when they voted for him, they didn't know his party was stealing, or at least they didn't know it by a court ruling. Two very simple messages. The first is for you, and I say it to you on behalf of the precarious, the exiled, the preferential, the pensioners, the imprisoned, the battered, the feminists, all those who are decent in this country: resign, leave. The second message is for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the PSOE: guard those barons, those who tell them better with thieves than with Republicans. [[Rumors]] It makes us the same grace, the same little grace to vote with you that surely you vote with us, but it is that throwing 1 and * of Moncloa is not an option, it is an obligation. [[Thieves]] [[Prisoners]] [[Protests.-Mr.Martinez-Maillo Toribio: But what is this?-Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u16	Quiet. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u17	Thank you very much. I will not compete with you, Mr. Rufián, in good taste, measure and moderation, which are faithful reflection of the words we have just heard. I just want to remember what I've pointed out. 1 Words withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. See page 32. before: the sentence does not condemn the Government of Spain, the sentence does not condemn the People's Party and the sentence does not condemn anyone who is currently a member of the People's Party. Your Honor, what is happening right now in Spain is very well understood. A motion of censure has been tabled here and that motion of censure has a companion for any situation, which is Podemos, and then has two options: a new companion, who would be Citizens, or new companions, where you would be, who is the one known as the Frankenstein Government. The position that the Socialist Party is holding is to tell all of you, the Frankenstein government: be careful, that if you don't vote for me I have to agree with Citizens and advance the elections! And to Citizens he is saying: be careful, that as you continue to demand the advance of elections, in that case I leave with the Frankenstein government! I mean, they're blackmailing all of you. Let's see who accepts blackmail. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carlota MERCHÁN MESON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA USING THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF GOVERNMENT DELEGATES? [[File number 180/00619]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u18	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Carlota Merchán Mesón, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u19	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, this question has become old; it has become old because you should have answered it on 9 May and did not. He did not do so not because he was defending Spain's interests at an international summit, but because you chose to attend the forum of a financial group, thirty minutes from this House, instead of fulfilling your obligation and subjecting yourself to parliamentary control. He neglected his responsibility as Vice-President and as responsible for relations with the Courts, he despised this House, the seat of national sovereignty, which is before which he must shoulder responsibilities, not before a bank. This contempt does not surprise us because we are used to it every time you veto initiatives that do not fit your ideology, even though they are supported by most groups in this House. They have the same respect for Parliament as for the general public, and proof of that is the fate and end of much of the public office they appoint, although now it seems that no one knows anyone. The question was old but the answer, somehow, we have it every day. What are the criteria, Vice-President? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u20	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. This Government carries out the appointments according to the criteria of the law, which, by the way, is a law of the year 2015 that requires for the first time in the history of our country a certificate of the suitability of these high offices, which also establishes obligations of transparency, obligations of publication of wages and obligations of publication of incompatibilities. Do you know what your group voted for, which so defends relations with the Courts in this House? No, because they don't like transparency and they don't like fitness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u22	Mrs. Merchán.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u23	Madam Vice President, your kingdom is definitely not of this world. [[Rumors]] Citizens expect exemplary behaviour from their public representatives and 351 years of sentence is an exemplary sentence, not exemplary behaviour. Citizens expect trust and security from institutions and you have broken that trust by putting our democracy in an unimaginable situation in countries around us, where presidents resign from copying paragraphs of a thesis. Spain is a decent country, of workers who carry it out daily with their sacrifice for their antisocial policies, as they see Gürtel, Lezo, Punica and company passing before their eyes. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] No exemplaryness, no confidence, no security; none of this offers his Government. When a court says that the testimony of the President of the Government has no credibility, there is only one alternative: that he ceases to be President. And since he doesn't do it on his own initiative, he'll have to be helped to leave. Thank you, Madam President. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u24	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. In my home I often say that those who have to reprimand cannot lack, and that bench cannot tell the People's Party how to fight corruption in this country. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mrs. Carlota Merchán, we will remember your words, we will remember them because they are sitting on the bench of the EREs of Andalusia two presidents of the Socialist Party. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yes, Mrs Merchán, simply because you have had what you would call decency to use 800 million euros of the unemployed in Andalusia to do favors to those who vote for the Socialist Party system in Andalusia. All these lessons that you give here and which justify what you call a motion of censure, which is simply ambition to get a power that they do not win in the ballot box, within a few days you give to Mrs Susana Díaz, Mr Chaves and Mr Griñán, who were informed on time and in detail of how they took the money from the unemployed for the imperialist system of their party in Andalusia. Mrs Merchán, the elections are won at the polls. The money is spent on what the budgets mark, not on doing favors to those who vote for their party, which, by the way, are not many, because if they voted more we would not be talking about what we are talking about, which is already costing Spain more than EUR 36 billion. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JOSEP VENDRELL GARDENES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT THINKS UP THE INTERVENTION OF THE CATALUNE SELF-GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00632]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u26	Question by Mr Josep Vendrell Gardeñes, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u27	Vice-President, today we are facing what could be, what should be, your last session of control as a government. You, even beyond what happens on Friday, are already past. His Government seems to have finally fallen because of corruption, but it could have fallen for many more things: for having led us to the worst regression in rights and freedoms since the transition, for not having met the demands made by the citizens for millions, especially women and pensioners, and for what concerns us here, for having managed the conflict in Catalonia in the worst possible way, a disaster in which the Government of the Generalitat also bears responsibility. More than six years of deaf ears, authoritarianism, more than six years without politics, more than six years of institutional degradation. His problem is that he has no credibility to manage the situation in Catalonia. You demand law enforcement when you have been convicted of violating it, when you have been convicted of stealing. You call for compliance with judicial decisions when Mrs De Cospedal in the parliamentary seat has questioned the work of the judges investigating corruption. Not long ago Mr Rajoy asked: who has the power to give credibility cards? And he said they can only be granted citizenship. Yes, the same citizenship that he gave you only four deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia. In this conflict there are those who want to throw more wood into the fire and divide Catalan society and we want to listen to the whole society, seek solutions and open new scenarios of dialogue. You and Mr Rivera are among the first and I think Mr Puigdemont too. We'll see where Mr. Puigdemont is, whether to open up new scenarios or the worst, the better. Citizenship wants solutions. If they listened less to Mr Rivera and more to the people, they would know that today in Spain, according to the polls, two thirds of the citizens believe that tension must be eased through dialogue and start tearing down trenches. We are sick of irresponsible and corrupt governments. Spain deserves to end this black stage. Catalans must recover self-government; and to recover self-government is not only to end 155, but also to end economic intervention, because there is no real autonomy without financial autonomy. You're already the past. Now it is up to us to win the present and the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u28	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. In that portrait of black Spain you do, Mr Vendrell, you forget a few things. He forgets that this government in these six years avoided the rescue. It forgets that this government has taken a country with more than 6 million unemployed and today 500 000 jobs are created per year. In that defense you make of the dispossessed and the proletarians you forget that the most bourgeois behaviors - which you would say - are those that at this time adorn your bench. Therefore, avoid talking about those who have simply abandoned you so long ago. Secondly, Mr Vendrell, it happens to you who always live in political pre-adolescence - yes, yes - and join any focus of instability. Mr Vendrell, you cannot be an independentist in Catalonia and come here to give lessons against Puigdemont when you, Mrs Colau and Mr Domènech have been the great adalides of the independentist and those who have often sat their own doctrine. Mr Vendrell, Article 155 will be lifted because we, unlike you, comply with the law and the mandates of this House, but that does not mean that that government can - also at your hand - do what it wants. It must comply with the law and must comply with judicial decisions. Don't be a defense attorney. That Mr Torra's words are not reassuring, I say to him, when they are not supremacists they are openly xenophobic, but this Government will be very attentive, as it has always been, to the facts. And in those facts, Mr Vendrell, you do not join anyone who wants to destabilise, because you harm Spain and, more importantly - at least for your bench - you end up hurting yourself. Or are you also proud of Mr. Domènech's results? Mr Vendrell, are you proud that you were absolutely undrawn in Catalonia, that you did not defend the law or the Catalans who do not think like the independenceists? Have you defended them? Not you, but this government certainly does and will continue to do wherever it is, Mr Vendrell. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u30	Mr. Vendrell, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u31	The problem is that they lack minimal shame and democratic dignity. [[Protests]] Get out of here! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u32	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u33	Mr Vendrell, our dignity is to take a country on the brink of rescue and ruin and to make it the country that grows the most in the European Union as a whole. Our democratic dignity is to have taken this country in which 1500 people were unemployed every day and now 1500 jobs are created every day. Our democratic dignity is that you now take habits of those who already have a job and can think of a better life. But most of all... [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA TERESA ANGULO ROMERO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE RESULTS OF THE HEALTH BAROMETER 2017? [[File number 180/00646]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u34	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs María Teresa Angulo Romero, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u35	Thank you, President. Minister, a few days ago we knew the results of the health barometer 2017, a survey that is carried out directly to citizens who use health services and which reflects the assessment that they make of our National Health System. These have shown this year the highest degree of satisfaction with the system of the last ten, above the one shown in the period 2008-2011 with socialist governments. This, together with the high assessment that citizens make of the different services - primary care, specialized care, hospital income, emergencies - as well as the existing difference in favor of the supporters of using the public system vis-à-vis the private one, dismantles the disqualifications that we often hear about our system from certain political formations far from the general feeling of the Spaniards, from that silent tide of millions of Spaniards who not only does not rebut their management, but recognizes the goodness of our health. This is a highly positive assessment that reflects the correctness of the reforms promoted by the Government of Mariano Rajoy to safeguard and improve our welfare state and, consequently, the danger that would paralyse the economic and social recovery and return to the policies that broke our public health system. As an example it serves that it is precisely in autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party, such as Andalusia, where citizens show a degree of satisfaction with the system below the national average, or consider above the average that the system does not work properly and needs to be made 'ERE que ERE' of the corrupt socialist management. That is why we in the People's Group believe that the highest degree of citizen satisfaction with our public health over the past ten years is another good sign of the good work done by this Government, which therefore obtained in the last three elections the majority support of citizens in the ballot box, which is where it should be obtained. However, Minister, as head of the Ministry of Health, I ask you: What is your Government's assessment of the results of the health barometer 2017? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u36	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u37	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we do; in Spain we have one of the best national health systems in the world. Spain is the leader in Europe for our life expectancy and, after Japan, the second in the world. In Spain we have one of the best and most extensive service portfolios in Europe. Spain is a leader in the organ donation and transplantation model, and Spain has one of the best training systems of its healthcare professionals. Therefore, the National Health System is one of the main pillars of our welfare state and is one of the first pillars of our brand Spain. Not only do many international organizations of international prestige tell us that we have one of the best national systems in the world to imitate, but we are told by the Spanish. From the Ministry of Health every year we survey Spanish patients from all corners of Spain, and in 2017 we have been given the highest rating in the evaluation, a remarkable one, of the last ten years. Some see Spain in black and white, but many Spaniards, the Spanish patients, who are all of us, give the National Health System a remarkable. We have confirmed this because 78% of Spaniards evaluate positively emergencies; 83% of Spaniards evaluate positively specialists' consultations; 86% of Spaniards evaluate positively hospital income; and 87% of Spaniards evaluate positively primary schools. This note is so high thanks to the efforts, to the leadership of the Spanish Government of the People's Party, together with the autonomous communities, coordinated with the autonomous communities, but thanks to these seven years of Government of the People's Party we have led this National Health System; and we have done so since the promotion of health with measures such as the updating of the Tobacco Law or the Plan to improve the composition of food; also since digitization, reaching 90% of the digitization of the electronic prescription, as well as since research, because Spain continues to be a world leader in clinical trials and advanced therapies and, above all, from the protection of professionals, where from the State's General Budgets we will increase their salary by 8.8% over the next three years. The Government of Spain is therefore committed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u38	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONE IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMAND MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DOES THE VICE-President VALUE THE SENTENCE CONCERNING THE DIRECTORS OF HER PARTY AND HER OWN PARTY BY CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/00636]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u39	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u40	Thank you, President. I ask you two questions, Minister: How does the Vice President value the sentence that condemns the leaders of her party and her own party for corruption? And what happens to the vice president who chooses not to answer me and you get the tomato to answer the question?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u41	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning, Your Honor. I believe that decisions can be made in many different ways: by plebiscites, by asking people or by complying with the Rules of Procedure of this House. The Rules of Procedure of this House allow the Government, which is under control, to decide who and, therefore, modestly, Your Honor, I will try to answer. I start from what I think is a mistake on your part, because you ask me how we value a condemnation of party leaders and the party for corruption, and I think that is not true. There is no condemnation of any leader of this party and no condemnation of the party. If you do not believe me, ask Mr Guijarro, who yesterday in a committee in this House said that it is true that there has been no condemnation of corruption in the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montero, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u44	The truth, Minister, is that I would not like to be in your shoes today having to defend the party in which you are campaigning, which is now officially a corrupt party. At least he didn't tell me what his colleague Cospedal said yesterday that there was no box B. As you said about Mrs. Cifuentes, I have not seen anyone lie so sincerely. [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] The good thing about the Gürtel case is that the judges answer it, not me. I quote literally: A genuine and effective system of institutional corruption was created through mechanisms of manipulation of central - state -, autonomous and local public procurement through its close and continuous relationship with influential militants of the People's Party. Other amounts also served, directly, to pay electoral expenses of the People's Party or went to stop as finalist donations to the so-called party box B, existing at least since 1989. In this system, what has been believed in this judgment is this way of life, it is not an isolated fact, it is not a punctual act, it is a lasting activity of an organization constituted to delinquent! That is what the judges of your party say, which is not a party, which is an organization for delinquency, Minister. [[Applauds]] The worst, the worst, is not that the sentence says that you are a corrupt party, it is not that you have presented yourselves to all the elections since your foundation by cheating, it is not that the judges consider that nothing less than the President of the Government lied when he declared in the National Audience: it is that you continue to sit in those seats, such as Mrs Cospedal or Mr Rajoy, who both appear in the papers of Bárcenas and who were at the head of your party while this plot of corruption existed. In any other democratic country you would have resigned, out of decency, by using the state's cloacas to destroy your political opponents, by handing over the money of the Spaniards to the powerful in exchange for bites, by destroying the public and by stealing while saying that there is no money for pensions. All this makes you the greatest enemies of Spain, Minister. [[Applauds]] If you were a party and not an organization for delinquency, Mr. M. Rajoy would have already resigned and you would now be returning to the last stolen euro. I will end by asking you a question that is being published today, Minister. Is it true that you were gathered days before the Gürtel case was handed down with the People's Party lawyer at a golf club? Is that true, Minister? Thank you very much. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u45	Quiet. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u46	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the good thing about the sentences is that they are written and can therefore be read. I understand that you didn't have the best week last week to spend time reading the sentence. He was busy with other internal problems. [[Rumors and Protests]] In any case, as I say, I do not know if it is a mistake, which recognizes your own partner or is a lie that you try to make consolidated, because - look at it - in that sentence, despite the change that there were judges in the Chamber, despite the change that there were rapporteurs, despite the fact that the sentence enters into matters that were not the subject of the trial, despite the fact that it is declared that a witness has no credibility - that I do not know what they wanted if they are not then to give him credibility - despite all that, there is no condemnation, there is no condemnation for corruption to the People's Party; there is simply a declaration of civil responsibility. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Montero Gil: For stealing!-Protests]] You know, surely, and if you don't know, some of your advisors will have told you, that a statement of participative profit means that someone has not known that a crime has been committed and that someone, obviously, if they haven't, has not been able to participate in it. What the sentence says... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u47	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u48	... is that certain people, who are not militants, are not leaders, are not members of the People's Party, have been able to commit crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, mayors of fifteen years ago. Be careful today, as you are all so happy, it will not be that, one day, any mayor of any of your parties commits any crime and you are all responsible. Would that be reasonable? Isn't that right? Isn't that unreasonable? [[Rumors and protests.-Mrs.Montero Gil: To return the stolen!-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: Delinquent!]] For neither the People's Party nor any other party. [[Mr. Turrion Churches: Delinquent!]] In any case, what you have managed to achieve is to organize this coven, joining with the best of each house, with the PSOE of the ERE, with the PDECAT of 3 percent or with you and your financing, supposedly, of Venezuela, Iran or chollo mortgages... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u50	...or of chollo mortgages that we are already used to, because you and Mr. Pedro Sánchez have chollo mortgages, what luck... [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr Turrion Churches: Offenders!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Turrion Churches: Offenders!- Rumors and Protests]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen! I beg your silence. [[Rumors.-Mr.Major Perales: If they insult us, too]] I beg your silence. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Beatriz MARTA SCUDERO BERZAL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE PROPOSALS FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF JUSTICE WHICH HAVE APPROVED THE DIFFERENT ASSOCIATIONS OF JUICES AND TAXES? [[File number 180/00647]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u52	Question now by Mrs Beatriz Marta Escudero Berzal, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u53	Thank you, Madam President. There is no legislature that does not work to improve justice. Within the Committee on Justice, a subcommittee was set up to address, among all political formations, proposals to integrate a state pact to improve justice. After almost a year of work and 103 proposals, this House lived not a moment, ladies and gentlemen, but three unworthy and improper moments from which we represent. Ladies and gentlemen, it has become fashionable in this legislature to leave the job, to abandon all responsibilities. When you don't like it or don't want to say anything, you leave it. Totally, no matter what, as you keep charging... Instead of committing ourselves and working towards agreements to improve the lives of citizens, we leave our job. The first moment was in November, when Podemos left the Justice Subcommittee because it said that only aesthetic proposals were being dealt with. No one can forget, neither judges nor prosecutors, what their justice proposals were: that judges and prosecutors applied justice in accordance with the programmatic vision of the Government. The government of change - they spoke -, change what is said change in Podemos there has been little, except the cassoplon, that that has indeed been change. [[Rumors]] The second moment was from Citizens, when in February they left the subcommission of study also through the back door. They said they wanted to depoliticize politics and the others didn't. It's about leaving, abandoning improving justice because because they don't want to make proposals, they don't want to commit, it's better to be quiet and not to commit to anything, lest they get wrong and the polls start going down. And the third moment was the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which left the boat on the last day; the day the 103 proposals were to be approved in the sub-committee of study, they abandoned it. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because they say it would have been impossible to reach a minimum agreement. I repeat, 103 proposals. A minimum, huh? Minimal, minimal, nothing. What did the People's Parliamentary Group do? With all his responsibility he recorded the 103 proposals. Firstly, because they are good proposals for improving justice; secondly, because they had been agreed by most political formations; and thirdly, because we respect our work. If we don't respect our work, how are we going to demand that others respect us? More or less a month ago, associations of prosecutors and judges have made 14 basic proposals to improve justice. Minister for Justice, in the face of the abandonment and irresponsibility of some political formations that do not want to work to improve justice, how does the Spanish Government value these proposals? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u54	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u55	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor, for bringing to the House a reflection - I believe it is objective - of what has happened in the Committee on Justice in recent times and the will expressed by the groups to address the real problems that our justice has. [[rumors.-Laughter]] Justice professionals, who are truly important, together with the citizen, are raising the need for legislative reforms, reforms in terms of the provision of more material means, more personal means and better technologies, and the Government and this parliamentary group remain committed to these reforms, to these proposals. That is why the State General Budgets Bill that this House approved - I hope the Senate will also do so shortly - will provide us with many more resources, for example, to approve 309 public employment places for judges and prosecutors and 3700 public service places, so that we have more and better professionals in our justice system. Also to carry out, for example, with more than 50 million euros, the reforms of the judicial headquarters so that the legal professionals and in addition lawyers, prosecutors and citizens go to headquarters with the quality required today by an administrative office. Equally, Your Honor, it is important to have technological means. The incorporation of new technologies, the use of digital justice to speed up the functioning of justice is an intense debate in justice, and for this we will have again, if budgets are adopted, EUR 131 million, which will enable us to make progress in all the processes of modernising our justice. Not only do we need means, but also new rules of organisation, new rules of procedure and, therefore, in this House we are addressing - I hope that the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary will be definitively approved - some of the issues that professionals have raised with us - judges, prosecutors and also lawyers from the Administration of Justice - and all officials to improve our justice. For example, strengthening the independence of the judiciary is certainly very important; hence the abolition of the appointment of a judge by the autonomous assemblies in the TSJs, hence the transparency in the appointments of the General Council of the judiciary, in which we are all committed; hence the regulation of the transit between politics and justice. Therefore, with the Budgets Act and with the reforms of the organic law and other measures that are in this House we will undoubtedly be able to respond... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u56	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON FELIPUS JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THE IMPUTATION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE OF AFFECTED TO THE EXERCISE OF HIS RESPONSIBILITIES? [[File number 180/00639]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u57	This is a question now addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Felipe Jesús Sicilia Alferez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, do you know that your Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Fernández de Moya, is accused of continued prevarication and falsehood in a commercial document? Do you know that your number two in the ministry, Mr. Fernández de Moya, is accused of embezzlement of public revenues, that is, of embezzlement of everyone's money, of coeds and trade in influence? Mr. Montoro, if you know, what do you expect to stop it? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u59	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sicilia, the case in which Mr Fernández de Moya is being investigated has nothing to do with his responsibilities in the Ministry of Finance, where, together with other senior officials of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, he is contributing to the recovery of the Spanish economy and the creation of employment, the strengthening of public services and the daily improvement of the lives of the citizens of this country. What your lordship knows about the state of this issue is that Mr Fernández de Moya is being investigated at the stage of previous proceedings, that is, at the beginning of the investigation, following a complaint lodged by the Socialist Party. At this point it is very adventurous to say what the result will be, but what we do know is that the Socialist Party has already filed the same complaint before and that it was filed by the Provincial Prosecutor's Office in April 2014, because it found no basis for it. They are already filing the complaint here, making it clear the political interest for which they are submitting it, as has been made clear in the approach to their question. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u61	Mr. Sicilia, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, I will clarify this: this complaint has been resolved; now Mr Fernández de Moya has to go to court for a report from the Civil Guard in which he is accused of having committed five crimes. Mr. Montoro, what legitimacy, what authority can a secretary of state have to go to court within a few days to report allegedly five crimes? What can the mayors of our country think when they see that the one who is now controlling the management of the municipalities is a secretary of state accused of their management as mayor? What can the millions of citizens who are paying their taxes today, making the income declaration, think when they see that number two of their ministry, which is responsible for collecting taxes, is charged for paying inflated bills and for paying services that were not provided, Mr Montoro? Out of political decency and by the good name of our Public Finance, Mr Fernández de Moya should already have been ceased and, if you have not done so, it is because you no longer have credibility or legitimacy to do so. And it has not since the same day that the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional its shameful fiscal amnesty. That day you lost all legitimacy and all credibility. [[Applauds]] And on the same day, Mr Montoro, the President of the Government had to have ceased him, but of course, what legitimacy does the President of the Government have, what authority does the President of the Government have when he has lied before a court, what credibility can a President of the Government have who has been paid out of a B-box that feeds on bites, what legitimacy is left to the President of the Government who runs a party - his own, the People's Party - condemned for benefiting from corruption, Mr Montoro? Last week we saw Zaplana arrested, his accused secretary of state and a conviction calling into question the President of the Government. Out of political decency, that is why we are presenting this motion of censure, so that they can leave the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u63	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u64	Thank you, Madam President. That is why he asks for Mr Fernández de Moya, so that we can leave the Government. [[Rumors.-Sicilia Alferez: It's one more]] It is clear why they are submitting the complaint, so that we can leave the Government. Here nobody has credibility more than you; you who have ruined Spain every time you have ruled; you who have left Andalusia in 1996 with 30% of the unemployment rate and, in 2011, with another 30% of the unemployment rate; you who have left all the invoices in the drawer, of the City of Jaén and of all the municipalities in Spain where you have ruled you have such credibility that you have submitted that motion of censure and have already cost us the Spanish in the rise of risk premium more than triple that we have raised pensions in Spain. [[Applauds]] [[Sicilia Alferez: Barcenes, Barcenes!]] [[Applauds]] Congratulations on your political initiatives, because do you know what you're giving? Fear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u65	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN'S PATRICIA BLANQUER ALCARAZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO FIND OUT THE EQUILIBRARYS OF HIS FISCAL POLICY? [[File number 180/00640]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u66	She now asks of Mrs Patricia Blanquer Alcaraz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Airef and the European Commission have already confirmed that with their fiscal policy Spain will not meet the planned deficit targets. Tell us how you intended to correct this deviation.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u68	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Blanquer, last week we had a full debate on the General State Budgets, which precisely program revenue and expenditure so that we can achieve the deficit targets. Yesterday we already knew that the deficit of the State has been reduced in Spain until April by 28% compared to the same date of the previous year. Thanks to the evolution of the economy, thanks to the collection that comes from that evolution of the economy, thanks to the policy that you like so much, - the left of this country, of austerity - the moderation, the moderation in spending, thanks to the fact that we spend more on social expenditure, thanks to this we are correcting the public deficits and paying the bills for the suppliers to charge in all the public administrations in compliance with the law of lateness of these public administrations. In that sense, you were defeated last week because you opposed the budgets that raised the salaries of civil servants, that raised our country's public pensions and that raised social spending to levels that we had not achieved before. Now that you stand up and ask me about your concern about the public deficit, it turns out... I don't know how to define it. I'll stay right there. Is it going to be fun? Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Blanquer, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u71	Mr Montoro, it is not true, it is not true that they have solved the problems of this country. In 2011, 24 of the 27 Member States were in excessive deficit as a result of an international economic crisis. Spain was not an isolated case. And now we are confirmed that we are going to be the only country in this corrective procedure. They made indiscriminate cuts regardless of whether they did not meet social needs and have not managed to square the accounts for their irresponsible and partisan policy. Despite growing above the European average, they have not managed to get economic recovery to people, so if you get off your pedestal once and out on the street, you'll understand what I'm talking about. Because unemployment continues to be the main problem; Spain is a champion in precarious employment; pensioners have taken the street; there is greater territorial and social confrontation and, now, its promises are not credible because Airef qualifies its budget plan as unlikely and the European Commission gives us the reason and says that with its policy it does not strengthen public finances. So, with its background, the motion of censure is the solution and not the problem; it is for dignity. In addition, we have seen him after his last speech. He says they're credible, but how are they going to be credible? Who's to believe them? What credibility can they have when they have damaged the fiscal conscience of this country by putting institutions in check? They don't have any credibility. Former Minister Soria had to resign for Panama's papers, proven facts; his fiscal amnesty declared null and non-constitutional, forgiving tax to the defrauders; Zaplana, former president of the Valencian Generalitat, of the People's Party, in prison. - Proven facts, proven facts. Its number two, Secretary of State for Finance, president of the Tax Agency, questioned by the courts for possible crimes of misappropriation of public revenues and a sentence, the Gürtel, which condemns the People's Party for benefiting economically irregularly and which doubts the credibility of the President of the Government. - Page 1078 of the sentence. So with this background, how are we not going to file a motion of censure? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u72	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. When you were governing the public deficit in 2009 it reached 11% of gross domestic product. During his government time, more than 3 million jobs were destroyed in Spain for the second time, because this was not the first time that the Socialist Party had ruled in our country. Where's the credibility? It's just that it's funny to me, Your Honor. It has indeed filled me with content with his intervention. But have we reduced the public deficit we inherited from 9% to 3%, yes or no? Has social protection increased in Spain by more than EUR 50 billion, yes or no? Are we reaching the record of tax collection and, therefore, recovering the ability to finance our country's public services, yes or no? [[Several Members: Yes.- Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Several Members: Yes]] [[Several Members: Yes]] You present the motion of censure because you go against economic recovery, job creation and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u74	Excuse me. Mrs Blanquer, as long as I listened to you when you did not have the floor, it has been a few seconds. Thank you so much. [[Rumors]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to use the word when you have granted it, but not when you have not granted it. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MISSIA RODRIGUEZ HERNANDEZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ACHIEVEMENT AND PUBLIC SERVICE: DOES THE MINISTER KEEP IN HIS POSITION TO THE SECRETARY OF THE STATE OF ACHIEVEMENT, ENRIQUE FERNÁNDEZ DE MOYA, IMPUTED BY POSSIBLE CONTINUED ADMINISTRATIVE PREVARICATION, FALSEED IN MARKET DOCUMENT, MALVERSATION OF CONTINUED PUBLIC CAUDALS, AND COHECHO AND TRAFFIC OF INFLUENCES? [[File number 180/00644]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u75	A question now also addressed to the Minister of Finance, Ms Melisa Rodríguez Fernández, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u76	Mr. Montoro, this is about corruption. Look, when we asked the question, we wanted to ask you why you continued to keep your Secretary of State accused of prevarication, and so on, Mr Fernández de Moya. But, of course, I had to forget that question because I said that I am not going to ask you why your Secretary of State is leaving, but why not all of you, considering that today and the various sentences for corruption have not only delegitimized you, they have not only withdrawn confidence, but have also been responsible for breaking this legislature. [[rumors]] My question, Mr Montoro, is not only why they are not leaving now, but also: when are they going to call elections? Because if, as Mr Rajoy has said, every government has to leave the polls, why don't they want the Spanish to decide about this? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u77	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u78	Thank you, Madam President. In a rule of law there is the presumption of innocence and when a person is investigated for acts that occurred fifteen years ago and is also mentioned in a due diligence for the next week, the coherent and logical thing is to respect that time limit, that such a declaration occurs and that it is in the judicial place where the investigation is carried out and of course the defence of the events that occurred, which were made extraordinary in a very difficult year for all and also for those who had public responsibilities of Government. But I do not resist to reply to the last thing you said at the end of your question because it is clear that it was not your Lordship's intention to refer to the judicial situation of the current Secretary of State for Finance but rather to refer to the political situation in Spain. Do you know why the elections are not in Spain's interest? Because we have to confirm economic recovery and job recovery. If this is put at risk in elections, if it is put at risk in a motion of censure - which is what economic agents and markets are currently perceiving - we will all have a very serious responsibility in this House. That's what's happening to us. Our obligation is to confirm that more jobs are created every day, and political stability, as we all know, is the first guarantee to strengthen economic confidence within and outside Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u79	Mrs. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u80	We, when we agree, talk about imputation for cases of corruption. First, there's the imputation - as you say -, the oral trial, then we have the sentence... But you're sending a very worrying message and it's that when you like the sentence, the judges are good, but when you don't like the sentence, then you're bad. That is what Mrs De Cospedal said yesterday in the Commission. And no. We have a judicial power that must be reformed in many things but not in what suits you. You guys are totally responsible for what's going on this week. You can be responsible and tell the citizens of this country: we are going to resign, we are going to call elections, you decide what is going to happen, instead of leaving in the hands of Mr Sánchez' egos the possibility of creating a government with which you want to break this country. Mr. President was saying that right now. You decide. Who has the opportunity to lead for the first time in recent times what happens in this country is you, being decent, being responsible and above all being honest with the citizenry. Politics is not only to be done, it is also to be seen. What message are you sending to the citizens? They talk about respect and ego. They have a chance to lead, but they're still stuck thinking about their navel. In the end, we all know that in the most difficult policy to manage are the egos, both of Mr Sánchez and of Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] But that no elections are called today...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u81	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u82	... what they have no chance of explaining is that Mr. Rajoy's ego and Mr. Sánchez' ego are above the interests of this country, above calling elections. And above all how afraid they are that it will be the citizens of this country who decide who will govern it, after the shame that they are making us...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u83	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u84	Thank you, Your Honor. Every day you learn something in life and in Parliament. Of course, the definition made by your Lordship this morning: 'policy is the management of egos', will remain in the annals of this Parliament and, without a doubt, in the analyses of what politics is. Especially those who speak to him are characterized by the ego, they are possessed by the ego. [[Mrs Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs Melisa, speaks words that are not perceived]] Your Honor, the responsibility of a government, of the executive branch, is to preserve the best that a country has. The best thing a country has right now is its economic growth and its job creation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u85	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED ANTONIAN SAVER OF THE ENTINE ORTEGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR INCREASE THE HUMAN AND MATERIAL ENVIRONMENTS OF THE FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE IN THE GIBRALTAR FIELD TO COMBAT THE NARCOTRAPHIC MORE EFFECTIVELY? [[File number 180/00643]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u86	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. First of all, a question by Mr Salvador Antonio de la Encina Ortega, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, the Strait of Gibraltar is a cross of cultures, races, civilizations... [[Several Members: You can't hear!]] Forgive me, I said that the Strait of Gibraltar is a crossroads of civilizations, races, cultures, a geostrategically first-class place. There, Minister, is my area: the Campo de Gibraltar, a beautiful place for those who know it, with an impressive natural wealth that forms part of the Natural Park of the Strait, together with that of the Alcornocales. It is the first port of Spain, the first petrochemical complex of Andalusia and above all it has honest citizens, workers and as worthy as the last of the Spaniards. However, day after day they are subjected in the media, unfortunately, to the news where appears this beautiful area of first magnitude and order linked to drug trafficking. We know that this is a complex, structural problem that does not come from now and requires the support of all administrations. You, as well as the State Security Forces and Corpses, have the support of the Socialist Party and the Andalusian Junta but more means are needed, Minister. This afternoon, the platform that integrates twenty-five social groups into the Commission of the Interior will appear to ask for an integral plan. The area cannot wait any longer, you know it is suffering the fall of human and material means produced in the last six years. 350 officers of the National Police and the Civil Guard have been lost. Greek, which was essential for the control of money laundering in Algeciras for economic reasons, has been dismantled. The SIVE, the integrated external surveillance system, not only of immigration but of drug trafficking, has not been modernised until the other day the President announced in Cadiz that it will be modernised. Not enough figures have been created that you have been announcing for a year as the limitation of navigating narcolanchas to stem the problem as Gibraltar did in 1995 and we have been waiting for that approval for a year. There is a lack of human and material means as they are going to tell you this afternoon. When are you going to put those human and material means so that this very important area in which you can create jobs - which is the main problem you have - well-being and wealth comes out of the situation you are in...? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u88	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u89	Thank you very much, President. Let me tell you, Mr De la Encina, that it is not that the means of both the Police and the Civil Guard are going to be increased, that they have already been increased and you know perfectly well that in recent months many more personal and material means have been provided to the National Police and the Civil Guard, so that they can do their job more effectively and at the same time that they can do it more safely. [[Mr. De la Encina Ortega shows a press clipping]] It will allow me to simply give you some figures that are indicative and revealing of the effort being made. Firstly, as far as the year goes, in less than five months more than 75 % of all the hashish that had intervened last year, which had also been the record in terms of the number of hashish that had intervened, has been seized. Moreover, look, in less than five months, a ton more cocaine has been involved than previously. [[Mr. De la Encina Ortega makes negative gestures]] In less than five months, 328 persons had been arrested, more than two persons arrested daily on the basis of drug trafficking. The number of troops has been strengthened, patrols have been reorganized, the local police have also been incorporated into the devices and many and better material means have been incorporated. But this is not just - and you outlined it simply - a problem of security, it is also a social problem. You have forgotten to say that it is the place where there is a higher unemployment rate and it is also the place where there is a higher school failure rate. That is why we are working together from the Spanish Government to the extent of our possibilities and ensuring security. And you know that Police and Civil Guard staff are increasing in the last year and a half. The National Police and the Civil Guard have been increased in 5200 places in 2017 and in 2018 in 5572. [[Mr. De la Encina Ortega shows a press clipping and makes a gesture by joining his index finger and thumb simulating a zero]] All this, so that we may be able to equip not only in the Gibraltar Field but elsewhere. Look, the staffing occupancy rate is higher than the national average, I would also like to remind you that my obligation is to staff and to define the systems and all the different resources set by the Civil Guard itself. We must not count the devices in order not to give clues to others, but what I can tell you is that the Spanish Government has declared a war on drug trafficking, that the Andalusian Board also declares it to be a failure at school and, above all, the unemployment rate in that place. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u90	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE IN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA FORM THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HAS THE GOVERNMENT VALUED TO WITHDRAW THE TORTURER PACKAGE THE CONDITION TO THE POLITICAL SUPERTY THAT HE GRANTED TO MARTIN VILLA? [[File number 180/00634]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u91	Question of the deputy Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u92	Thank you, President. Minister, have you considered withdrawing the police award to Gonzalez Pacheco, torturing Gonzalez Pacheco, aka Billy el Niño?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u93	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u94	Your Honor, this Government has not appreciated the withdrawal of this decoration. I'll tell you why. It is a decoration that has not been awarded by this Government, it is a decoration that was awarded more than forty years ago. No one has officially requested that this decoration be withdrawn; no one has officially requested it. Nor does it seem that there is legal justification, Your Honor. But I will also tell you that there is no record that this decoration has been withdrawn from anyone. Let's abide by the law and be serious. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u95	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u96	You have just applauded the fact that a torturer is honoured. [[Rumors]] His Government had the power to withdraw that medal, which was an ignominy for Spanish democracy. I'm just going to read you some of the testimonies of the victims of Billy the Child, some of them are sitting in the guest gallery. Chato Galante: They opened my head and beat me all over the body, I was naked. When I couldn't move, they had me handcuffed to a radiator in a hallway, and when a cop walked by, they would hit me again or turn a cigarette on my head. González Pacheco was one of the most present. He was a compulsive torturer, enjoying and assuming it. I looked at you and said, "It was me, Billy the Child. Willy Meyer: Gonzalez Pacheco pulled the gun against my chest while he was screaming that he was going to kill me, that in that same room they had killed Julián Grimau, and that he was going to do the same to me. I stood still with my mouth shut and felt the cannon's mouth on my ribs. Gatillo, I heard the shot snap: the gun wasn't loaded. Luis Miguel Urbán: Billy el Niño told me that he was going to take me to a camp at Pan Bendito and that he was going to shoot me, and then they would kill my partner. Then they applied the wet towel, a technique that consists of simulating a drowning. Lydia Falcon: They beat me in the stomach and in the liver, and threw me out of my arms, which seemed to come out. While he was beating me in the stomach, Billy the Kid said to me, "Now you're not gonna bet any more, bitch. You probably don't stay in this ministry for long, but I wish the minister or the minister of the interior named the Socialist Party would withdraw the medal to that evil one. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u97	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u98	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, if everything you just reported here was recognized in a sentence, you know that no Member of Parliament... [[Protests.-Mrs Mayoral Perales and Errejón Galván utter words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u99	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u100	... of this House might think that it was not only not worthy of the decoration, but that the whole weight of the law had fallen on it. [[Rumors]] And I will tell you, socialist governments have passed and neither have they withdrawn it. [[Major Perales: He's a criminal, turn him in!]] I think you're used to resolving issues of your party and personal issues through consultation or referendum... [[Protests.-Mr. Mayor Pereales: Deliver it!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u101	Mr. Mayor!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u102	But in an administration...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u103	Wait a minute. Minister, one second, please. Mr. Mayor, I'm calling you to order. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u104	An administration must be serious and resolved according to the law. It will allow me to tell you that you do not know very well what you want, one day you can ask for five ministries, the Spanish Radio and Television and also the CNI. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u105	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u106	The next day you think something else and are willing to sign him a blank check... [[Major Perales pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u107	Quiet, please. Silence! Mr. Mayor, I'll call you to order for the second time. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u108	What I can assure you, Your Honor, is that you are not going to give me serious lessons and defend a torturer because I have not done it in my life and I am not going to do it. [[Mr. Turrion Churches: Look at him in the eyes]] But it is also true that the law and the law must be enforced. But what are you going to tell me if one day you're defending that slavery is a freedom of expression and the next day you're saying the opposite, that you're intimidating them so they can't... [[Major Perales: A little shame. A crime against humanity! A little shame, a little shame.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u109	Mr. Mayor! Mr. Mayor! [[Mr. Mayor Perales: Shame. He's a criminal who's running away from justice. Between Martín Villa...]] Silence, silence! Mr Major, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have called you to order for the second time; I would remind you that the Presidency will call you back to order if you continue to insist on your attitude. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u110	You have already shown what you want to do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u111	Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: What a shame! - Protecting fascists and slanderers. What a shame!-Mr Floriano Corrales: Paul, very bad. I thought you were something else. Not like that. - The rumors continue.]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTE TO GUARANTEE THE CONVIVENCE, LEGALITY AND PUBLIC USE OF COMMON AREAS IN CATALUña? [[File number 180/00645]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u112	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I would have to be here today to answer the Vice-President of the Government, who has got away with it, and I would have to be asking her what we are really worried about, but the Socialist Party did not think it was a good idea. So, beyond what you reply to me, that will be the answer to the question which I am not going to repeat, and on which I do not have great hopes - it was about the measures they intend to take to ensure coexistence in Catalonia - since Mr Rajoy considers that the Catalan Government is a government in condition, hope is eliminated from the equation. Let's go to what matters, because the spectacle - I don't mean the latter, I mean the former - of bipartisanism begins to be truly depressing. If your Government has not understood that the legislature has ended because there is a sentence whose literality - it has already been recorded here, and I am not going to do so - determines that your party organized a plot of corruption embedded in the system that systematically charged public procurement, if your party does not understand that the terms of this sentence are the gout that fills the glass of the patience of the Spanish people, and that your Government is finished, if your party decides to get bogged down is something that is regrettable, but it is your decision. You can sink if you wish, what you cannot do is sink to Spain. What they cannot do, because we will not allow it, is that all Spain pays the price of Mr Rajoy's casketing. To say that judges cannot delegitimize a Government as it has said, and that only the people can do so, is partly right and partly not. Judges can delegitimize a government, but of course the people can, too. And this is the right time for the Spanish people to speak and the wrong time to convey a message of instability to our middle class, to our youth and to Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u114	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since nothing has to do with the reflections you have just made on the subject of the question before us, it will allow me, Madam President, after the interruptions I have had in my previous reply, to tell Mr Iglesias that, without having had a sufficient legal basis, he cannot call this group or the rest of the House, none of us, anything or give us lessons of any kind. [[Protests]] [[Strong Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u116	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u117	Mr Girauta, you have come today to make a reflection and I understand it because it is the scenario in which all of you have settled in the last week. I can assure you that the Government has taken the measures provided for both in the Constitution and in the legal system to ensure not only legality, but also peaceful coexistence in Catalonia - as has been shown - and institutional neutrality in that autonomous community. The measures certainly know them, because their party supported them in the Senate, and if they have not changed their minds, which I believe they do not, they continue to support them. They have repeatedly alluded to the fact that coexistence has not been preserved in Catalonia and that legality has not been observed. Today you have come to make some generic reflections and I have to tell you that we are satisfied with the application of Article 155. It has been an application with prudence, a prudence that has undoubtedly led us to be able to maintain normality and institutional neutrality there. What I do not think is that they should reconsider and try to confuse public opinion with regard to the content of a judgment. This morning the Minister of Justice has explained this and I am not going to exhaust the short time I have to give back a justification. Nothing they're saying has happened; it's a lie what they're appreciating and it's a lie what they're arguing. What I can tell you is that at a certain time, when there has been a complicated situation in Catalonia, the Government of the People's Party, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, achieving a minimum consensus, has been able to restore institutional neutrality and at the same time institutional, administrative and political stability in Catalonia, which was what Catalan society generally wanted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u118	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA JOSÉ GUARCIA-PELAYO JURADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMULATING THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RECENT OPERATIONS DEVELOPED BY THE FORCES AND SECURITY COMPONENTS OF THE STATE, AGAINST TRAFFIC OF STUDENTS IN THE AREA OF THE STREET? [[File number 180/00648]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u119	Question by María José García-Pelayo Jurado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u120	Madam President, Minister of the Interior, Mr Zoido, today, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the opportunity to ask you about a reality that we know is of concern to you. The Government, we, and especially the neighbours of the Gibraltar Field, are concerned about the need for responses. Drug trafficking is not new, as Mr De la Encina said, in the region of the Campo de Gibraltar. We still remember how in the 1980s and early 1990s, José Chamizo, Paco Mena, Micaela Pérez and other mothers and of course pensioners and young people, but also politicians, such as Teófila Martínez, fought for the consideration of the drug addict as a sick person and with courage and commitment faced the drug clans. At that time, Mr De la Encina, institutional support was scarce or null; today, especially after the tragic death of the nine-year-old in Getares waters, consciences have reawakened and the civic struggle has retaken the street, a civic struggle that with a single voice claims to live in peace on the largest border in the fight against drugs: the Field of Gibraltar. The Gibraltar Field is not a drug; the Gibraltar Field is good people, it is solidarity and working people, who demand the administrations to work together because they know that when they do so it is good for the citizens. There is a clear commitment on the part of the Government of Spain. The Minister of the Interior, Mr. Zoido, is constantly physically in the Gibraltar Field and also the delegate and deputy delegate of the Government. It has held important meetings at the highest level that it will explain itself, but above all it has taken measures, as it has never been done before, which are meaning a before and after, Mr De la Encina, in the fight against drug trafficking in the Field of Gibraltar. The pulse that drug traffickers are throwing at the State, the citizens of the Gibraltar Field and the entire province of Cadiz are not going to win, because here there is a strong and committed Government that is planting their faces and will continue to plant their faces. Today, Mr Zoido, I am sure you will inform us of all the actions that have taken place. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the State Security Forces and Bodies on their strong commitment to the region, but above all to send a positive and optimistic message to the neighbours. They're not alone, the Government of Spain... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u121	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u122	Thank you very much, President. Mrs García-Pelayo, the government of the nation is satisfied and the assessment is positive, but there is a long way to go. As I said, this is an integral action that has to be carried out in that area. There are not only security problems; when there are security problems it is because many other systems that had to have been implemented earlier have failed. The conclusion is that then the State Security Forces and Bodies have to act and that's what they've been doing. As I said, the first thing we have done is to promote a meeting at the highest level of all administrations so that we all commit ourselves to that comprehensive plan that must have the consequence that that area is what it has always been and has to continue to be: a place where there are good people who want to live together. Many operations have been carried out in recent months. I've given him one number before, and now I want to give him another. In 2017, as previously pointed out, cocaine seizures and seizures of hashish increased by more than 300% and by 45%. A record of drug destruction was set last year: 477 tons of drugs destroyed. This is what we've been doing. The magnificent results being achieved by the State Security Forces and Corpses in recent months have led to a very significant increase in seizures; not only that, but also a very large number of narcolanchas - what had never been done before - have been seized, which are being regulated. All ministries of the Royal Decree that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior are to declare narcolanchas as prohibited objects are already being processed and circulated. We will continue to work on the same line, because there have been more arrests than ever, more seizures than ever before and many litres of fuel have been involved for the first time. That is the task we are doing to combat from a logistical point of view everything that drug traffickers take advantage of. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Government has declared war on drug traffickers. They know that there will be no truce, because we have to regain public and peaceful coexistence, but it is true that all administrations have to put on their part. We're talking about security here today, but we can't forget... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u123	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ANA MARIA SURRA SPADEA, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. GABRIEL RUFIÁN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THINK TO TREAT THE SECRETARY OF THE STATE OF COMMUNICATION? [[File number 180/00629]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u124	Question now to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mrs Ana María Surra Spadea of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u125	Does the Spanish Government intend to cede the Secretary of State for Communication?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u127	Madam President, good morning. Your Honor, when I was a young man - a long time ago - and I studied grammar, to cease was an intransigent verb and, therefore, no one could cease another, but to cease one when he was dismissed. But then the Royal Spanish Academy changed its mind and now you can stop someone. I therefore reply that the Government will not cease the Secretary of State for Communication. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u128	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u129	You should stop it, because you have disrespected nine million pensioners who have built this country with their work and who are demanding their just demands. Furthermore, know that the Government does not own the pensions. Pensions are a deferred salary of workers and it is the workers who have to talk about them, they are not a gift from the Government. In addition, I would ask you, does the Government have any plans to raise pensions without raising the taxes of everyone else? We propose as a shock plan an example, the temporary modification of a precept of the regulations of the Aliens Act. Immigration is and remains, so we have to make a decision on this, and if we can combine it with pensions, better. Today, three years of uninterrupted residence or registration, a one-year employment contract and a rooting report are needed for first-time work authorization. An exceptional regulation could be chosen in which the three years of residence could be reduced to one and the employment contract from one year to three or six months. I give you the example of Catalonia, where in the last three years 20 000 people have been regularized by the former regime. By making a minimum calculation, if we make this exceptional regularisation we would have to regularize 20 000 more, which means a minimum income for Social Security of 9 million euros, and for Finance, Mr Montoro, of 20 million euros, that is, 29 million euros that could be concentrated on the state's coffers and pay pensions without creating another tax like Google's, which is difficult to...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u130	Wait a minute, Mrs. Surra. Your time isn't up. I just want to say that you have to address the Minister in the terms and content of your question. He's been talking about other different topics for a minute and a half. He has freedom of expression, but what he can't do is be talking all the time about another matter. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u131	I'm sorry, it's not another matter since the pensioners' problem is because there's no money and I'm telling you how to get money out by solving another problem. In any case, I'm not the first one to talk about another point. [[Applauds]] What I mean...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u132	Your time is up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u133	Why would you cut me?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u134	I'm not cutting you off, Your Honor, what's going on is that you've already spent twenty-five seconds of your time, which was the time you had pending. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u135	Allow me, Madam President, to thank Mrs Surra for her tone, which is a barbaric contrast to what happened here this morning, although the truth is that she asked me about one thing and then gave us the general pension theory. The Minister of Employment or the Minister of Finance surely know a lot more than I do about it. [[Rumors]] Will you let me talk? It's just that you guys are whispering a lot. Your Honor, if you want - I am sure you do - to ensure that pensions are guaranteed in Spain and that pensioners have more and more money, I will tell you what you have to do, apart from hearing your pension theory, which is not voting for Mr Sánchez's Frankenstein government's motion of censure. [[Rumors]] Do you know why? Because those gentlemen are responsible for Spain's bankruptcy. [[Rumors-Mrs. Surra Spadea utters words that are not perceived]] Do you know why you are going to vote for Mr Frankenstein and his government? Hey, don't point your finger at me, Your Honor. [[Mrs. Surra Spadea utters words that are not perceived]] Do you know why you're going to vote for Mr. Frankenstein? Because Mr Sánchez is more comfortable with you than this government of the People's Party, because you care about pensions, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] You know why they give a shit? Because you have voted against the increase in pensions contained in the General Budgets of the State, the most important increase of recent times, and you have voted against, Your Honor, it is in the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] You are going to vote in favour of the Frankenstein government because Mr Sánchez is more comfortable with the independenceists than a People's Party government. And you know what? That you are right, because Mr Rajoy would never allow the independenceists to carry out their intentions. So, I understand very well what you're going to...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u136	Minister, to the point. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u137	Your Honor, no, we are not going to cease the Secretary of State for Communication because he has not disrespected anyone, Your Honor, and because he immediately apologized to those who pitted the President of the Government. We, Your Honor, in fact, there you have us, having saved Spain from the rescue and having done... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u138	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN ESTER PEÑA CAMARERO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT PLANS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE REGARD TO LABORAL POVERTY? [[File number 180/00641]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u139	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mrs Esther Peña Camarero from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u140	Thank you, President. Good morning. Minister, what plans does the Government have for the labour poverty we suffer in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u141	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Continue to create more and better jobs every day in Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u143	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mrs Peña.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u144	Minister, this is not a joke. The economic and labour situation of thousands of families in our country is dramatic. Perhaps in his office he does not see or feel it, but in this country hundreds of people rise every day with the anguish of not knowing if tomorrow they will renew them, if they will reduce their hours or if they will be able to support their family, because, while working, 15% of Spanish households live below the poverty line. This reality is reflected in the European leadership that the People's Party has given to Spain. The OECD has just pointed out us as European leaders in labour poverty, as leaders in recovering profits for millionaires but not wages, as leaders in youth unemployment and as leaders also in time, doubling the European average. Minister, is this love of colors, winning the Champions for Spain in inequality, in temporality and in precariousness? This is their heritage, the failure of their labour policy, because what country are we building for our children with short-term contracts and wages that barely cover basic needs? What public services and pension system will we receive after their passage through the Government? All this happens while you talk about stability, but tell the truth, tell it for the last time. You talk about your stability, not that of young people who join training contracts being overqualified. They talk about the stability of their own, not that of the unemployed over forty-five years old without opportunities. They talk about the stability of the people who have the most, not that of the thousands of women who suffer temporary and partial contracts involuntary. It is not even the Gürtel, which is also you, is your government, so no one will be able to think, after knowing this data, that you should have no more minute of glory. So, Minister of Employment, there's no other one left, we're going to sign your finiquito. With this motion, the Spanish and Spanish will sign the termination of their contract for incompetence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u145	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is surreal that the Socialist Party comes to give employment lessons to this House when 1500 jobs were destroyed every day when they ruled; more than three million jobs lost, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] The biggest loss for a person is losing his or her source of income, which is his or her employment. Do you know what the OECD and ILO say? That there is no greater instrument to combat labour poverty and inequality than to have a job, Your Honor. That is what we have been engaged in from the very beginning in our government action. The data are blunt. The risk of poverty is four times lower among those who have a job than among those who are unemployed. It is therefore still the priority in Spain to continue to create employment. Your Honor, the data doesn't have to be commented on, it's read. From 2008 to 2011, with a socialist government, half of the new unemployed in Europe, unfortunately, were Spanish, and 45% of Europeans at risk of poverty were Spanish. Do you know what's happened since we ruled, since the recovery? That Spain creates 500 000 jobs a year thanks to Spanish society and that three out of four who leave poverty in the European Union are Spanish because they find employment every day in Spain, Your Honor. That's the big difference. Year after year, social indicators and labour poverty indicators are improving in our country, as happened last year, Your Honor. That Spain of growth, employment and opportunities wants to put you at risk today by presenting an irresponsible motion of censure which has only one objective: to give a contract of employment in this House to Mr Sánchez, who does not have it today. It is a shame to put at risk the stability of Spain, the employment and opportunities of many Spaniards. We will continue to work for it and you, as always, in party politics and opportunist politics. It is a shame, as you are one more member of the Socialist Party that has done so much in the past for our country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGART PEREZ HERRAIZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW LONG IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO CONSIDER THE PERSONS PROVIDED IN THE FIELD OF THE FAMILY HOUSE AS WORKERS OF SECOND CATEGORY? [[File number 180/00642]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u147	Question by Mrs Margarita Pérez Herraiz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u148	Thank you, President. Minister, how long is the government going to consider second-class female domestic workers?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u149	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. All Spaniards for us are the priority, and also the employees of the household and the families who hire them, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pérez Herraiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u152	According to the first-quarter EPA, 637,700 persons work in the family home service; 53.2% are part-time, the highest percentage of all branches of activity, and only 418,408 persons, 95.4% of whom are women, with an average salary of EUR 343.2. Therefore, women with low wages and low social protection work in this sector. In 1985 the special scheme for domestic workers was regulated and in 2011 it was approved its integration into the General Social Security Scheme, which established that from 2019 the contribution bases would be approved with the rest of the general scheme, but you have just approved that this approval be delayed until 2024, five more years. First of all, you guys are totally out of planning. It makes no sense that they need to submit an amendment to their budgets to modify a forecast that has been known since 2011. Again, with their decisions, they harm women who work with more difficulties, less protection and less wages. Its justification is that the fulfilment of obligations for employers could entail an excessive administrative burden, in which case they could facilitate those obligations of employers rather than limit the rights of women workers. These women workers are also excluded from effective health protection, as the Occupational Risk Prevention Act is not applicable to them. All this despite the fact that in 2011 the International Labour Organization adopted the Convention 189 on decent work at home, but Spain does not ratify it. A socialist government included domestic work in Social Security and another socialist government regulated the equalization of the special system with the general regime. But the People's Party government limits and reduces rights. As you postpone the equalization of the special system for domestic workers, do not ratify Convention 189 and do not regulate the proper protection of the health of domestic workers, another Government is needed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u153	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, for starters, today more affiliated with the Spanish household regime than in 2011 when we arrived at the government. Your Honor, you know as well as I do that quality in employment begins with a contract. Who signs that contract? Families, which are Spanish workers who need help at home in order to reconcile work and family life, therefore, we are not faced with an employer to use. What has this government done? Improve rules to favour families as well as domestic workers. What have we done in these budgets? Extend the 20% bonus in the contribution base previously established by the socialist government but ending in 2014; we extended it to 2018 to favor families. He also knows that the bonus is 45% for large families in Spain. What's that supposed to mean? On the one hand, a lower cost for families and, on the other hand, a better contribution for housewives. Why, Your Honor? Because they will have better social benefits in the future and pensions thanks to a higher contribution as today they have and we avoid together the submerged economy and fraud. Secondly, what have we done? Simplify administratively and reduce costs for families, Your Honor, of course. We have made a new contribution scale which reduces the contribution costs of families, including women workers. So what do we do? Let the housewives discharge themselves as affiliates to avoid that bureaucracy that caused many to work in black, Your Honor. And with everything we want? Ensure quality employment and reduce family costs. What do we have in social security today? That if we equate that situation today, the contribution bases will be lowered by 62% of the workers, which would reduce their future pension and increase the costs of the family. That is why we want to make such an equalization of regimes without anyone losing and we are going to commission a report to the Economic and Social Council to see how we can do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF MAJOR MAJOR RAFAEL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT CONTROL MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTION TO AVOID TOXIC AND HIGH RISK FINANCIAL PRODUCTS, AS PREFERENTS, BE COMMERCIALIZED BY FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS TO ENJOY THE MOST AVAILABLE PROCESSES? [[File number 180/00635]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u155	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we have recently seen a record of Bankia's separate piece on preferences, and we wanted to ask you what legislative and control measures the government intends to take to prevent toxic and high-risk financial products, such as those that prefer, from being marketed by financial institutions and to ensure that no further abuse occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u157	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u158	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the government has already changed the rules in 2012 to limit access to retail investors of this type of products that have, since then, had to be targeted at professional investors. Similarly, it has been forced to increase the transparency of banking clauses and to avoid abusive practices, but we want to go further and at the moment a draft law on real estate credit is under discussion in the Chambers and is currently in the process of being put into effect, which precisely tends to promote transparency for retail consumers and, on the other hand, we are dealing - it is going to be presented in the Chambers in the near future - with a new law on the securities market that transposes into Spanish law the so-called Mifid II Directive, which precisely includes the protection of retail investors as a fundamental philosophy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayoral, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the preferred participations are the chronicle of two financial scams, the chronicle of the suffering of the popular sectors during the crisis. Preferential stakes were born in tax haven. Between 1998 and 2003, financial institutions created companies in the Cayman Islands to issue preference. Already in 2001, an investigation by the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office indicated that this financial product could be a tax avoidance tool; some calculations indicated that this tax avoidance could be calculated between EUR 3000 and EUR 6 billion. In 2003, it was decided to file a dossier and, far from persecuting this phenomenon, it was authorized to broadcast in Spain. The preferences were thought for institutional investors with high professional knowledge, but the reality was quite different, they were placed to retirees, to working people, to small savers. In 2009, preference was stopped in our country, but, as everyone knows, our retirees, our elders, continued to be placed in what came to be called a genuine pyramidal scam because it was no longer broadcast, because the market was fictitious and the only thing that was done was to seek liquidity for the big investors at the expense of the working people of our country. The State failed to fulfil its obligation to protect the weakest; it implemented a system of uncovered removals. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what is needed as soon as possible is to recognize the damage caused, which is not only an economic injury but also an injury to health; studies already exist of how the right to health of the people affected by these cases was violated, of how it affected all their families and of how, moreover, there has been no reproach to financial institutions since the fines are laughable, just EUR 45 million, when we talk about billions of euros that have been defrauded. We need measures to ensure that this is not repeated and to tell banks' boards that no one is above the law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u161	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u162	Thank you. Your Honor, I think I have already explained to you that the legislation was changed in 2012 precisely to ensure that this type of preferred holding is directed primarily to the professional market or the wholesale market. The regulation of the National Securities Market Commission was also changed to promote the control of so-called complex financial products and consumers were forced to submit a handwritten expression of consent. If these rules had been in force in the previous period, there would not have been many of the circumstances that you mentioned, and the Government made the necessary changes a few years ago. If you have any of these complaints or any of these issues, address them as a matter of priority to the party that was ruling at that time, with which you are currently questioning the economic stability of Spain, the stability of the financial markets, because speaking these days of consumer protection, of family protection, of investment protection is a great paradox when you this very week, since last Friday, are questioning the agreements that you want to achieve the stability of one of the economies that were being one of the fundamental anchors of the growth of the European Union, and at this time, given the financial crisis that is being provoked in the euro area and the events that we are seeing in Italy, the great irresponsibility to see Spain subjected to political instability is truly the main threat to the evolution of savings and investments of Spanish families. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u163	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: what changes in the forecast times of railway routes from MADRID to LEON, have the manager of railway infrastructure carried out after the changes approved in the implementation of the draft PGE Law 2018? [[ADIF]] [[File number 180/00633]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u164	Question to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr de Fomento, last week the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies approved the draft law on general state budgets, in which a number of Forum amendments were incorporated so that the Madrid-Valladolid-Leon-Asturias railway line can be approved to the other high-speed corridors. It seems therefore necessary to me to know the new forecasts of the times of the railway routes from Madrid to León, Oviedo and Gijón carried out by Adif after the changes in the nature and programming of the works that relate to these budgetary modifications.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u166	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u167	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. As you know, the scheduled travel time on the AVE to Asturias will be two hours thirty minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u169	The parliamentary agreement People's Party-Forum that supports our support for the government does not seek any privileges for Asturias, but the equality with the rest of the Spanish territory in the enjoyment of high speed. Taking as a reference the speeds and travel times of the other Spanish railway lines already in service, the initial forecasts of Adif that you yourself made public at the end of last year do not correspond to a high speed line, discriminated against Asturias and were far from the objectives set when faced with the big projects of this line with the emblematic variants of Guadarrama and Pajares and its kilometers tunnels. Once all the works, including those of double track, electrification at 25 000 volts, communications system and security ERTMS, travel time from Madrid to Oviedo has to be, as you have just confirmed, of two hours thirty minutes, because for this the Transport Infrastructure Plan was committed in the year 2000 and enormous advances have been made thanks to enormous economic investments that must be obtained the highest social profitability at the service of all the citizens. Budgets for 2018 are the great instrument for fulfilling in this legislature the agreement of the People's Party-Forum Government, diligently carrying out the tenders and committing the outstanding works so that the Madrid-Valladolid-Palencia-Leon-Asturias line enters into service as soon as possible, Minister, in accordance with the European specifications of interoperability established for a railway line to be considered high speed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u170	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u171	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. We are working intensively for the arrival of high speed to Asturias through various projects. One of them is the doubling of the track and the conditioning of electrification and security systems in the Duero-Valladolid section. We're finalizing the ERTMS, which will get a ten-minute reduction to Leon. We are eliminating Leon's sac fund, which is also going to get a reduction of fifteen or twenty minutes, with an investment of 25 million euros. We have tendered the section León-La Robla, which as a whole represents an investment of 100 million euros and we will soon award the works. We are also in the process of awarding the actions in the variant of Pajares, to which some 200 million euros are still left. Let's get the Campomanes wide changer out now in June. We have planned an investment between Pola de Lena and the Asturian cities of 90 million euros in our Plan of Closeness and we have other actions envisaged to continue to advance in the new informative study of the Pola de Lena-Oviedo-Gijón-Avilés stretch and in the double-track extension of the different stretches between Valladolid and Palencia. This is what is going to happen, with a global investment of 3670 million euros for the arrival of high speed, getting at the end of 2019 to start one of the tubes of the variant of Pajares and in the summer of 2020 the other tube. I insist, this is what is going to happen, unless the proposed motion of censure came forward, since, as everyone knows, and the cantabres we live it in first person, the first thing the PSOE did when it came to govern was to withdraw the AVE to Cantabria from the Official Gazette of the State and, as everyone knows, the position of Podemos is very clear. Leo textually: He does not understand the reasons that led the Government of Spain to bet on high speed in Spain and regrets the commitment of the Minister of Fomento De la Serna in a high speed line towards the region. Imagine what could happen to Asturias if that government were to happen, which Mr Sánchez foresees. [[Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Bermúdez de Castro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u173	Madam President, on a point of order, Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u174	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u175	During this monitoring session, forgetting that this is the house of the word as an expression of the will of the people, some speakers, especially Mr Rufián, who is not here at the moment, have made very serious accusations against the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group; accusations that offend the dignity of my group. I would therefore ask you, on the basis of the good order of this institution and in the use of your prerogatives, Madam President, to withdraw these accusations and expressions from the Journal of Sessions. [[Mr Olòriz Serra asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u176	Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u177	There's no way we're taking them off. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u178	The Presidency shall, by virtue of the powers conferred on it by the Rules of Procedure, take such a decision as it deems most appropriate to the decorum of the House. 2 The session continues.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u179	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation on the Cervantes Institute. For your defence, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the agreements signed in 2016, Citizens insisted on including a point dedicated exclusively to the Cervantes Institute. The bet was asked for its expansion and consolidation 2 See page 7. as a reference in the teaching and accreditation of Spanish, as well as the role that should be played as a promoter of culture in Spanish. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u181	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u182	Although this legislature is exhausted from corruption, we must remember that Mariano Rajoy's government has never expressed the slightest interest in fulfilling its commitment not to us anymore, but to an institution that deserved much more respect and affection than you have shown it in these months. The Cervantes Institute was born in 1991 as the most ambitious Spanish cultural project in many decades. In these years he has known more and less prosperous times, times of greater or lesser brilliance, various crises and budgetary imbalances. The Cervantes Institute is a great idea that, however, has never lived up to the immense possibilities it has, especially now, at a time of enormous global expansion of the Spanish language. Unfortunately, there seems to be no real interest in making the institution evolve. It is true that it produces a certain melancholy to question those who will no longer be able to do anything to improve the situation of Cervantes, but I believe that we have the possibility and the responsibility to make our point of view recorded in order to start looking towards the future, which is what needs not Cervantes but the whole country. For this government, the past has already begun, but as you have been in these months, Mr Dastis, the most responsible of the Cervantes network of centres, I would like to ask you about the work that has been done. Let's talk about the Cervantes expansion. They are present in forty-four countries, with eighty-seven centres. The opening policy is really difficult to understand, while Morocco has six centers and in Brazil there are eight, however there are none in Switzerland, and in Japan and China there is only one. What, for example, happened to Cervantes Institutes in Zurich and Seoul? Its opening was announced. Also in Luxemburbo? Its opening was imminent in 2015. Minister García-Margallo himself announced the opening of a Cervantes Institute in Singapore, which now has only a very small associated centre. In 2015 the opening of Washington was announced in a drum and platter with this statement, and I read: The opening in Washington is considered of particular interest as that city is not only home to the Federal Government of the United States, but also to important international organizations. With this initiative the Cervantes Institute will promote the coordination of activities with various countries of Hispano America with cultural presence in Washington. Obviously, it was an interesting statement of intent, but three years later there is still no Cervantes Institute in Washington. Mr. Dastis, the PP government's policy on the expansion of Cervantes in the United States is incomprehensible. After Mexico, Colombia and Spain, the United States is the fourth country in Spanish speaking. The growth of Spanish is so strong that it is said that by 2050 it could be the second country and even the first in number of Spanish speakers. California and Texas are bilingual territories. It's a bilingual territory of New York City. In new Mexico or Miami, Spanish prevails. They study Spanish in the United States 8 million people. Do you know how many of these people go through Cervantes centers? Only 8,000. It's a drop of water in the ocean. And you know why that happens? Because our network of Cervantes centers in the United States is clearly insufficient. We have only one large center in New York and, apart from that, there is one well-functioning center in Chicago; one very modest one in Alburquerque; a classroom in Seattle, with logically very limited objectives, and a language observatory in Harvard. That's all there is. The structure of Cervantes in the United States is less consistent than in Brazil, Germany, Morocco, France or Italy. In the United States the Cervantes is not an active agent in the process of growth of Spanish but, if we are so located that the wave of language also pushes us, we can aspire to be important. If we do not find our site, we are doomed to be insignificant and, therefore, we must take care of two fundamental axes: the extension of the Cervantes network and accreditation as a brand. Opening up in Washington is a must, being in the capital has to be a priority. But it's not the only one either, in Miami there's a cultural center that depends on Aecid, which I don't quite understand why he has that function. It must immediately become a Cervantes Institute, it is not difficult, there are precedents. There was this transfer, for example, with several cultural centers in Brazil. In Houston and San Francisco we need to open Chicago-style functional centers, because in both territories there is a strong community of Spanish speakers, so we have a territory that is more than well paid for. Cervantes should swim in favour of the various currents that make up Hispanic America in the United States and work on that common identity based primarily on language. He wrote the great Carlos Fuentes: 'I deeply believe that it is the Spanish language that, with greater eloquence and beauty, gives us the widest repertoire of the human soul, of the individual personality and of its social projection. There is no more constant and vocal language: we write as we say and say as we write. So what do we say? What are we talking about? What do we write? Nothing less than the universal dictionary of passions, doubts, aspirations that communicate us with ourselves, with other men and women, with our communities, with the world.' That is right, Mr Dastis, we share the fertile heritage of a caudal and uninhabitable language, which grows unstoppable and which is enriched every day with the impulse of those who speak it. The Cervantes is a Spanish institution that must have the will to transcend our borders to become the great reference for promoting the culture of Hispanic America. Spain has the opportunity and also the duty to use its cultural networks abroad to claim the weight of Spanish in the world and also a common heritage that goes far beyond our language. The Cervantes can become the great ambassador of a common culture and, even more, should be one of the pillars of our foreign policy. We have before us an important challenge, that Spanish be a language used in business, in universities, in institutions, in congresses, in science, a language that plays an essential role in digital transformation. The project 'Spanish, a global language' was supposed to be for this purpose. It is a project, Minister, in which the Cervantes Institute is not playing the role it should from the moment it has been placed under Spain's umbrella. I think that's a mistake, Mr. Dastis. We can't pretend to colonize the language, Spanish is not ours, we can't patriminate it. Brand Spain cannot integrate a dream that goes far beyond our brand country. [[Applauds]] That is why Cervantes should have led this project and yet his ministry has allowed it to be eroded. Spain is the gateway to Europe of the great legacy of all Latin America. Don't you think we have to join forces? And I remember that verse from Oda to Roosevelt by Ruben Darius: 'Be careful. Live Spanish America!'. Together we will always be much stronger. But let's leave the poetry and talk about practical things, the headquarters of Cervantes. Its location is not a minor issue. For this reason, it draws some attention to the real estate operations that have taken place in recent years, including that of London, which has taken the Cervantes Institute from an emblematic building in Belgravia to an alley in the Temple area with no visibility. Let's talk about money. The Cervantes has a budget of 124 million euros this year. Do you think that's an acceptable amount? How is that budget compared to other centres that can be approved for Cervantes? Let's talk about objectives. The teaching of Spanish cannot be the only end of Cervantes, we must bet on accreditation. The Cervantes has to be the great reference to the time to demonstrate training in Spanish. It turns out that two tests have been designed very well: the DELE, the diploma in Spanish as a foreign language, and the Siele, International Spanish Language Assessment Service. This in collaboration with the Instituto Caro y Cuervo, UNAM, the University of Salamanca and the University of Buenos Aires. The DELE has great potential for expansion in university education, but the other exam, the Siele - which is an exercise on the Internet - is much simpler and has a clear objective: to assess the level of knowledge of the Spanish of those who access the test. It is a very good product, you get an immediate result and it is especially useful for those who have learned Spanish but have not studied it, which is very common in the United States. Unfortunately, the agreement for its marketing and extension in the United States has not yielded good results, although it is a product that has great potential for growth. I ask you a very specific question, Mr. Dastis, how many Siele exam points are there in the United States, Japan or China? I've been looking for the data, but I couldn't find it. I'm going to ask you for another figure that, despite having searched for it, I haven't found: How many tests of the Siele have been done since its implantation two years ago? In China Spanish lives an extraordinary moment, the Chinese Government plans to consider it the second language of learning in schools. However, the only thing that Cervantes has in China is a center in Beijing and a center in Shanghai coordinated from Beijing that doesn't even have its own director. Between Beijing and Shanghai there are more than two hours of aircraft. The Shanghai centre is not operational because management with the Chinese authorities was not done properly at the time. We may have missed the opportunity to teach Spanish in that country, there are a lot of academies, universities offer Spanish in all curricula, but I wonder why you don't work on promoting Siele in China and I answer it myself: because until the Siele starts in the United States it is impossible to introduce it in Asia with minimal chances of success. Let's talk about professionalization. Minister, I can tell you that among the workers of Cervantes you are being discouraged. The appointment policy is governed by very difficult-to-understand criteria, particularly with regard to the management of the centres. We have to move towards a Cervantes race with a progression based on criteria of excellence and experience. It is not the same thing to direct the Cervantes de Orán, which is a small center, as that of New York. We believe that the trajectory of those who have successfully carried out their work in the various centres should be recognized. Now, Mr. Dastis, that's not being done, and when those things happen, the first thing that happens is that the morale of the workers is lowered. The management and management of Cervantes is a key issue and I think they are not taking it too seriously. Sometimes it seems to me that the Cervantes have also been used to be part of what we might call friendship diplomacy. We're totally against that. I now await your answer to my questions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u183	Thank you very much. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mrs. Rivera de la Cruz. Thank you very much for your inquiry. As you well know, Spanish language and culture are among the main assets we have in foreign policy. What seems to be ignored, however, is that this Government is fully aware of it and acts accordingly. The Cervantes is an instrument of the State, of the nation, and is also at the service of the broad and growing global community of women and men that we speak in Spanish and share a way of being and being in the world. It is also an instrument at the service of the projection of the languages of Spain, which enrich us all and which are part of our common heritage. The Cervantes was born thanks to the consensus of all parties and has basically managed to stay out of the legitimate party confrontation. [[The lady]] This is something we have preserved and strengthened, because we know that Parliament's involvement is essential for that institution to fully deploy its potential. Similarly, we continue to respect the principle of autonomy and it is also our will to strengthen the inclusive character of the Cervantes Institute, adapting it to the normative framework and social reality as they both evolve. This clearly shows the institute's ongoing adaptation to the new Law 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, or the composition of its patronage, in which they are represented from Spanish and Spanish American letters and culture, university or real academies, to social institutions of a cultural nature. The Cervantes Institute is therefore making progress along the right path and it is fair to acknowledge the work being done by its current leadership; a recognition which is also practically unanimously expressed by the parliamentary groups. In this regard, and for the same reason, I reject the criticism sometimes made of the Institute's appointment policy, which you have reiterated here today. The staff of the institute are professionalized to the maximum, as specific requirements and merits are required in the selection procedures to have recognized specialists in each of the subjects or areas of their competence. The Cervantes Institute always and scrupulously follows in its selection processes the principles of competition and publicity, ensuring that the selected candidates gather merits, capacity and suitability. With regard to the appointment of the directors of centres, article 21 of the Cervantes Institute Rules provides that the directors of centres shall be appointed and terminated by the director of the institute, on a proposal from the Secretary-General, in accordance with the Secretary of State for International Cooperation and for Ibero-America - and the Caribbean now - and heard by the Board of Directors. These managerial positions are covered in employment by senior management contracts. In this way, appointments are being published in the BOE, resolving them in accordance with the above-mentioned procedures and principles and to the full satisfaction of the BOE. In terms of internal control and evaluation, the Institute takes both functions very seriously. The work of the institute through the direction of analysis and strategy is constant. External audits, divided into operational and financial audits, are rigorous, critical and systematic reviews. In addition, the institute is currently in the process of designing and implementing an analytical accounting system that will, if necessary, make the entire control process more rigorous. I would now like to focus on an issue on which there is a great deal of emphasis, which is that of the expansion of the institute. Well, the Cervantes, as you have recalled, is present in eighty-seven cities of forty-four countries, has sixty-three centers, eleven classrooms, eleven extensions and two antennas. These are considerable figures, but it is true that in the face of the growing demand for our language and culture, we feel that they are insufficient. This disjunctive between a constantly rising demand and resources that, although we try to increase, are limited, is undoubtedly the main dilemma facing the Cervantes Institute. It would be worse if it were the other way around, that is, that our language and culture were so unattractive that it was possible to respond to their demand with equal or decreasing resources. Fortunately, it is not the case, nor does it have the face to be. Some may think or even pretend otherwise, but Spain, our shared language and culture attract more and more, are increasingly present abroad and with increasing prestige in all areas, including in the economy, in science, in technology, where there is still a way to go. Aware of this dynamic and vibrant reality, we have been increasing the budget of the institute since 2014. The 2018-2020 strategic plan recently approved by the board of directors of Cervantes, which will shortly be presented to its members and the media, includes priority geographical areas for the expansion of the institute and new forms of presence different and more flexible than traditional centres. Obviously, it's easy to mention places where there might be Cervantes Institute and there aren't, as it's easy to mention places where there are no embassies or consulates and there could of course be them. But neither should we sin from baseless idealism, but realistically manage the resources, priorities and strategies that the ministry has. We know perfectly well, for example, that in the United States it is where the future of Spanish is more than ever played, so we already have four centers in New York, Chicago, Alburquerque and Harvard, and one Cervantes classroom in Seattle. However, to the extent that budget allocations allow it in the medium term, it is our intention to strengthen and expand the Institute's presence in the United States and, in particular, as you have recalled, in the city of Washington. With the availability of some facilities owned by the Spanish State, the interest of various Spanish administrations in the project is combined. Meanwhile, the Cervantes Institute has concluded cooperation agreements with fraternal countries that share our language as Mexico, to use its consulates to enhance the teaching of Spanish. I take the opportunity to respond to an observation that you have made and that does not respond to reality, and that is that you have placed Cervantes under the umbrella of Spain branding the language ourselves. The truth is that the Spanish brand has been commissioned to empower Spanish, which is perfectly compatible and coordinated with what the Cervantes Institute does. We are also aware - as I have had occasion to present recently before this House - of the growing power of the African continent. In response, the 2018 budget for the first time in recent years considers the opening of a new centre in Dakar, Senegal. There we are currently collaborating with Cheihk Anta Diop University, through a Cervantes classroom. The recognised interest of the Senegalese public in the Spanish language and culture and the great needs of the certification activities in the country justify this new opening. Let us not forget that Senegal is the third country in Africa after, Benin and Ivory Coast, with more students in Spanish and that Spanish is studied as the first or second language in the ten public and private universities of the country. The new centre, which will be the first in sub-Saharan Africa, will allow us to carry out activities in an immense and promising area for the expansion of Spanish, but where the Cervantes currently only has limited performances. In addition to the gradual territorial expansion of the Cervantes Institute, another area in which we continue to work is to reinforce its value as a reference of quality in the teaching of Spanish and in the propagation of our culture. Here we have to demonstrate the intense certification activity through the Siele or also the Siele service, the most ambitious Ibero-American cultural project today. The Siele began operating in 2017 and involves more than seventy-five partner institutions in twenty-two countries and three hundred review centres in seventy countries. Let us not forget the DELE, which verifies the knowledge of Spanish for obtaining the official diplomas issued by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport. If in 2013 they registered to obtain the DELE 64 000 people, in 2016 there were more than 104 000 people, which shows the success of the initiative. In the same vein, he was able to mention the work of the Cervantes Institute by accrediting the quality of teaching in the institutions that teach Spanish through the accreditation system of centers, Sacic, in which almost two hundred centers participate on three continents. Your Honor, a test of the Cervantes Institute's ability to take on new responsibilities and respond to the demand for its services in new areas is its role in certifying the knowledge of Spanish and the social and constitutional reality of Spain for applicants to acquire Spanish nationality. As you know, since 2015, these seekers must pass a test to prove their integration into society. [[The Lord]] Well, between October 2016 and August 2017 the effective response of Cervantes has allowed a total of 141,978 candidates to take the test in the nine calls for such examination that have taken place in 264 examination centers. The Cervantes Institute, therefore, is not only an essential instrument of projection of our language and culture towards the outside world, but it is also proving to be an effective instrument for the reasonable and orderly integration of those who legally want to become our compatriots, because, ladies and gentlemen, far from being an excluded language and culture, it is a vehicle of inclusion, and Spain is constantly enriched by the contribution of those from diversity who are part of our cultural community, a living and expanding community, of which more and more people want to be part. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mrs Rivera de la Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I have asked you several questions and you have not answered any of them. I'm really surprised because they were very specific questions that you could have consulted immediately or some of your collaborators could have provided you with the data, data that I told you I couldn't find, but, well, I have another question. When I get back to you, I'd like you to tell me how many Cervantes institutes you've officially visited during these years as Minister of Foreign Affairs. It seems to you that the budget of the Cervantes Institute is improveable. That's what we agreed on. There are two institutions with a homologous vocation, the British Council and the Goethe, which have much higher resources than the Cervantes. The British has a budget of 1077 million pounds, about 1232 million euros. It receives more than 170 million euros from the English Government, and thanks to its structure it generates 700 million euros each year that it reverts to the institution. The Goethe has a budget of 386 million euros, almost triple that of Cervantes, of which 229 come from the German Government. In other words, the German Government devotes almost twice as much to promoting its language as we do, when ours is spoken by more than 500 million people and the German speaks it about 90 million. I know they are different management models, but when the Cervantes was created, in the BOE it was said: 'Like prestigious institutions of countries around us, the Cervantes will assume as its primary objective the diffusion of Spanish...' Twenty-seven years ago the objective was to look like the Goethe or the British, but successive governments, including their own, have abdicated from the ambition of making Cervantes the true reference of external cultural action. I am talking to you about the expansion of Cervantes, specifically from the United States, and you mention idealism to me. Well, I'm going to talk to him about something else, about feasibility. In Washington, where Cervantes would have to be, there is a building owned by the Spanish Agency for Development Cooperation. It's underutilized, it's only used by the embassy's Culture Council. It is a 4,000-square-metre building, situated in an unbeatable position and with minimal effort could become the seat of a Cervantes Institute, on which cultural policy in the capital of the United States would also be centered. We cannot give up having a Spanish embassy in Washington and I assure you that as soon as we have a new Government my group will urge this opening, which is only suspended for a lack of political interest. I have also asked you to explain to us where you can submit one to the Siele evaluation process, and I will repeat the question by concretely stating: How many Siele exam points are there right now in the world? How many in the United States? I'll give you a piece of information. The TOEFL exam, which is a fairly similar model but for English, has only thirty-seven exam points in Spain. To a question we asked his Government in October last year, they replied that there were thirty examination points throughout the United States. It is a fact that gives us his ministry. Compare yourself, Minister. The Siele is excellent as an idea, but they have applied it so badly that they have turned it into a failed project; failed, but recoverable if you have true will. You have had the opportunity but you have missed it, as you have missed the opportunity to make this a fruitful legislature. You have not responded to the London headquarters change data request. I understand that you do not have the figures, but I would like you to tell us in the near future - immediately, I would say, given the circumstances - how much was paid for the rental of the previous headquarters and how much we are paying for the headquarters we have now. I have been given this information informally and I find it so apprehensive and scandalous that I do not dare to bring it to the parliamentary seat because I do not want to believe it. Therefore, I ask you to give us the real figures and to explain them. How much did we pay before rent and how much do we pay now? I will go a little deeper into the appointment policy that you are so satisfied with and I will also put two very specific cases to you. The current directors of two of the centres of utmost strategic importance, London and Paris, had no previous management experience in Cervantes. They are two very important centers run by two people whose worth I do not doubt - I know they are two prestigious intellectuals - but who had never until now had any connection with the Cervantes or any responsibility; that, yes, compensated for that lack of experience with the work done in the service of the former People's Party Government. [[Applauds]] How do you think that feels to people who have been doing exemplary service in the institution for ten or twelve years? The Cervantes cannot serve to make political agendas, to pay favors or, as I say, to practice the diplomacy of friends. Transparent promotion scales must be created. And there's something else I want to point out. We are facing the twilight of a government. I hope they don't use the Cervantes to put up high-ranking cease-fires. [[Applauds]] I also hope, Minister, that your Government will not be tempted to start making express appointments in the forty embassies that are still awaiting ownership. [[Applauds]] I think you didn't understand me before when I told you that you had placed the project 'Spanish, a global language' under the umbrella of Spain; what you were facing is that Cervantes was left out of that project. How do you think this has sat in Latin countries? I'm telling you, it's not very good. What they have done is a mistake, but we also believe that the next Government has the opportunity to amend it. Even if his Government had lost the opportunity, there would be someone to pick up the glove. Citizens' ambition is to integrate the language expansion project into a network of collaboration with Latin American countries and to do so through the Cervantes, which was created for that purpose. It is our purpose to integrate the network of Cervantes institutes, the cultural centers of Spain in Latin America, which would serve to consolidate the institution as a reference in the teaching, accreditation and promotion of Spanish. In his opening speech of the International Congress of the Spanish Language in Zacatecas, Gabriel García Márquez said: 'The Spanish language has to prepare for a great trade in that future without borders. It's a historical right. Not because of their economic prepotence, like other languages to this day, but because of their vitality, their creative dynamics, their vast cultural experience, their speed and their strength..." In an area of 19 million square kilometres, it would be absurd not to let the Cervantes lead that mission. I'm done. I confess that I have made this inquiry knowing that it is of no use to you. That's why I end the terrible phrase in that story by Juan Rulfo: 'It's kind of hard to grow up knowing that the thing where we can get hold of to root is dead.' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs Rivera. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u188	Your Honor, I will try to demonstrate with data that this government is fully committed to Cervantes and to the role of Spanish as an essential vector of our foreign policy. I'm starting with the institution's budget. In 2014, after a few years of severe restrictions, Cervantes had a budget of 110 million euros; in 2015, 114; the following year, 115; in 2017, 120; and this year, 124 million euros are planned, as announced in the presentation of the section corresponding to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is to say, over the past four years, the Institute's budget has increased by basically 13%, which I believe is a clear indication of our commitment. In addition, as I said, this budget envisages the opening of the Cervantes Institute in Dakar, for which the corresponding allocation is allocated. Before making a long list of sites where Cervantes could open, it should be reflected that the cost is not so much in opening a center as in its maintenance. I am referring to the long-term material effects and human resources to ensure a quality activity, which is what we all want. I'm still with numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 139,544 enrolments in the last academic year, of which 116 000 were in attendance. Each year more than 16 000 teachers of Spanish and other languages from all over the world choose Cervantes centres to start or improve their training in teaching Spanish as a second language or as a foreign language. In the course 2016-2017 we also held 5142 cultural events in our centers, attended by more than a million people just counting the most relevant events. More than 2400 entities collaborated in the organization of these events. In addition, we have an extensive network of sixty libraries with more than 1 375 000 volumes, plus a growing electronic library. It cannot be said that Cervantes lacks presence or attraction, rather the opposite. On the other hand, I reiterate to you the importance of the collaboration and consensus of the parliamentary groups to strengthen the autonomy and the proper functioning of the institution. It is not only up to this Government but you also have a fundamental role to play in this matter. Finally, I would like to conclude by referring to the convergence of interests and efforts made by the Cervantes Institute with its counterparts and other cultural institutions in the other Spanish-speaking countries. We are the first to recognize that Spanish language and culture are not our exclusive property. On the contrary, from the moment the Spanish began to expand, it was his most characteristic note to be assumed by the local populations and to be mixed and enriched with the autonomous elements. Vargas Llosa often reminds us of the figure of the first great American born of a transatlantic encounter, the Inca Garcilaso, with whom a language emerged in the borders of the Iberian peninsula became for the first time European, American and cosmopolitan. This is the spirit in which we recognize ourselves, and that is why 65% of the cultural activities that the Cervantes Institute is planning have an Ibero-American element. It is clear proof of this the organization of the international Spanish-language congresses that are held every three years, and now we are working on the organization of the VIII congress, which will take place in March 2019 in Córdoba, Argentina. It is also demonstration of the success of the institution the opening at the headquarters of Madrid of delegations of the main Ibero-American institutions, such as the Mexican UNAM, the Instituto Caro y Cuervo of Colombia or the delegation of the Centro Cultural Inca Garcilaso, of Peru. The same is true of the Siele service that I have mentioned - by the way, I have told you that there are more than three hundred centers in seventy countries that have conducted such examinations - which is the result of the collaboration agreement signed by the Cervantes Institute, UNAM, the University of Salamanca and the University of Buenos Aires. I'm done. As you can see, this government takes the Cervantes Institute very seriously and we do not leave a moment to empower it; we continue to take Spanish and with it to our country towards new borders. I am glad to know that your group has the same interest and passion in expanding the range of action of our language and culture. You're done, Your Honor, with an appointment about some kind of death announced. I say to him that perhaps we can refer to another great literary man, who said that the rumors about the death of a character are very exaggerated. So let us wait to see when that death occurs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u189	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, concerning the conditions of life and work of the Tempores and Tempores of the agricultural fields in Spain. [[File number 172/000123]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u190	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the living and working conditions of the temporary and temporary members of the agricultural campaigns in Spain. For your defense, Mr. Cañamero Valle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u191	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin, I would like to express my condolences for the death of three Bulgarian journalists who died on the 27th as they crossed a step at the level of a village in Guadalajara. [[Applauds]] I also want to show my solidarity with another journalist, Francisco Molero, who is now going to enter the prison of Archidona, Malaga, with a five-year sentence. He is a young man, not even thirty years old, who dared to surround the Congress of Deputies, so they have condemned him to five years. There were fourteen of them and they all came out absolved, except this fellow for carrying the flag of the Andalusian Workers' Union. He's Andalusian and he came here to Congress of Deputies, and he's been sentenced to five years in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, we have in Spain, in the Spanish State, about 1.2 million workers who eventually work in the various collections that exist throughout the State: in Murcia, in all the vegetables; in Valencia, in orange; in Lérida, in apple; in Seville and Córdoba, also in orange; in Almería, in greenhouses; in Navarra, in asparagus; in Castilla-La Mancha, in vines; in Jaén, in olives; in Huelva, in the so-called red fruit. And in France, in the harvest, in the apple and the melon. There are 1.2 million people wandering from place to place looking for a piece of bread, looking for a right. I have to say, Minister, that on 14 November in this House we approved the removal of the requirement of the Peonadas for Andalusia and Extremadura and that it was also agreed in this House, by a majority, that the workers who welcomed the Profea, former PER - in eight communities there is this right - could work thirty days this year with the subsidy of that program. What has come to these eight communities is only four days of work and, with regard to the elimination of the peonadas, only twenty out of thirty-five have remained. The agreements of this House are not complied with when there was a clear direction for the Government to implement them. On the 3rd of May I visited Huelva, on the 13th of May I went to Navarra, I was in La Rioja and I was also in Almería. I have visited the various places where the temporary workers work and I have to say that their work is inhuman, totally unjust and, in addition, of permanent abuse. In Navarre I was working with the laborers for a whole night, with a flashlight, because so the asparagus does not give the sun and has no other colour than white. They do not know when it rains; if it is cold, they pass cold; if there is a storm, they suffer it. I saw them working with rubber boots in those lagoons and even some had to return to Andalusia because with the waters the harvest was drowning and, therefore, they had to return. With the light of the flashlight all mosquitoes come; they cannot work with so many mosquitoes. Even some workers are infected with pecking and have to go to the doctor. When the workers arrived twenty years ago, they had the right to housing; they were given 50 % of the value of asparagus; they did not have to put the diesel fuel; they did not have to put the car; they did not have to put the car; they did not have to take the asparagus to the collection site. Today, these workers no longer work as they did 20 years ago. They work with the law imposed on them by the businessman, which is the law of the jungle. There is no right, there is no agreement, they work for what they want. They used to work with 50% of the profit and now work with 40%, with 45% or; depending on the final value of the harvest, the entrepreneur tells them what they have to earn. The workers have to put the plastics on the wall of the asparagus; they have to remove and put them for free; the house has to pay for it; the car has to put it; the car has to put it. It is a situation of total social injustice. There is no collective agreement that really improves that situation. If we talk about Almería, it's exactly the same. Workers mainly work for almost ten months in the greenhouses, 40 000 hectares and 80 000 workers; about 30 000 are not documented and work in the Almeria greenhouses under human conditions, because when high temperatures start, 40 degrees, 50 degrees or 60 degrees have to work under plastics. At what price? What they want, because no convention is respected because, although there is the Almería Convention and the Huelva Convention, as immigrants are basically, they are abused. I'm going to focus on Huelva, minister, which I think is an area we know. I know the whole area, because I don't know Huelva from now on, but I've been visiting Huelva for 30 years. In addition, I speak with knowledge of cause because my two children work on the strawberry in Huelva. I'm not talking to anything I've been written in any office. I'm talking about things that I live and see because I'm a newspaperman, I live as a newspaperman, and so I know what I'm talking about. In Huelva there are 11,000 hectares between strawberry, raspberry, blueberry and blackberry; 5900 hectares of strawberry; 2800 hectares of blueberry; 2100 hectares of raspberry; and about 200 hectares of blackberry. About 11,000 hectares. It takes 70,000 workers to cover the so-called red fruit campaign, which is from February to June, an average of 100 days; 100 days per 70,000 workers means 7 million newspapers. This gives a profit of 280 billion in newspapers for the workers and also a sale in the markets of approximately 1 billion euros for the entrepreneurs. This is the reality. All right, because Huelva has gone on to have an important economic level in agriculture, generates a lot of newspapers, there are a lot of workers manipulating strawberry, raspberry, blueberries, everywhere, but to come to work those 70,000 people have had to go out looking for them; 30,000 Romanians, all women. I was in Romania, in Bucharest, seeing the contracts, I don't speak for words, I was in Romania; and on the part of Morocco there are 15 000 contracts in origin. In Romania, contracts at source are no longer required because they are in the European Economic Community. They used to come from Poland, which is developing a little bit, and no longer come. But 30,000 are from Romania; 15,000 from Morocco and so many from Belarus, Bulgaria, Ukraine and also from the Maghreb, Algeria, Senegal, Mali and the Gambia; from all these places these people come. That's the composition of the strawberry in Huelva. The strawberry agreement in Huelva is at 40 euros, but they don't pay that at all. They even get off the IRPF, but no one makes the rent return. The Government enters the treasury about €6 million without having to enter them because the laborers do not have to make the income declaration; they should not be held by the IRPF because they never reach these amounts. But, if immigrants get that too, look at you. There's something more serious going on in Huelva. Minister, you live in San Juan del Puerto and 10 kilometers you know there is Lucena del Puerto and a little beyond Bonares; if you go further, we meet Moguer, Juan Ramón Jiménez, and later with Palos. I don't know if the mayor of Palos, Carmelo Romero, is here right now, whom I know perfectly well and with whom I had meetings when the contracts were made. In Palos, in this region of the strawberry, in Huelva, lives the minister and lives a deputy. What do we have there, minister? And I'm telling you this by looking you in the eye. Huelva's reality is alarming, it's humiliating, it's modern slavery. It's slavery. Five hundred years ago Christopher Columbus left there trying to find a new world and that also became a slave trade. Today I say to you, with knowledge of cause, that slavery continues to exist in Huelva. I have been visiting immigrant settlements; in the same Palos, where the deputy is mayor, there is a settlement, in the heart of Palos, in the village of Palos. There are 250 immigrants living there without light, without water, without documentation, without anything, but they work. When working, these immigrant workers are not paid anything or paid what they want because they cannot demand anything at all. One immigrant said to me, "Don't come here anymore," I haven't washed for three months! They also told me in another settlement, in The Mothers, that you will also know where The Mothers are. Passing Moguer, to the left. In that area is Las Madres, where there are five hundred people living in huts, in plastic houses, without anything, without water, without light. In addition, the city council picks up the garbage. The city council is aware of what is there; the local administration, the autonomous one - the Andalusian Junta - and the central one know what is happening there. This is a reality and that reality needs to be abolished - I shall soon finish, Mr President - for the good of all, for honesty, for ethics. I'm not talking about Africa, I'm talking about here. Strawberries cannot be sold on international markets full of indignity, exploitation, injustice and crying. [[Applauds]] Agricultural products cannot be sold in international markets with the humiliation of thousands of immigrant workers who are actually abused. That's a moral issue that affects us all. Minister, you're living there, so close to that region. That must be abolished, that must be eradicated by honesty, dignity and the defence of human rights. I'm not talking about not paying for the agreements or the mistreatment. You know, minister - and with this I finish - the allegations of sexual harassment of a German magazine. I'm telling you that's true because my children have confirmed it to me. There are abuses, mistreatment, which people who don't want to report speak to voices. There is a series of harassment, abuse and ill-treatment, especially of women, throughout that area. I ask you to do everything possible to eliminate this situation. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Cañamero. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the part of the Government, we also want to show our solidarity and affection for the death of those temps who died this weekend in an accident in Castile-La Mancha. We are very sorry for that great loss too. Your Honor, I am saddened by your intervention. He knows well that I have affection for him and we know how to speak calmly, from the ideological distance many times between you and me, but with great honesty, from the heart and from the head, of the serious problems that still exist in our land, in Andalusia, how to improve them and how to contribute every day to the prosperity and well-being of our land. Believe me, I have felt this way since the one minute we had the opportunity to talk about many issues in this House. I'll start at the beginning. The Spanish agri-food sector is a very important sector for economic growth and the creation of opportunities in our country. It is a sector that is proud of the brand Spain, that creates wealth, that innovates, that creates quality jobs and that is also becoming a large export sector in recent years, that contributes to economic growth and opportunities in all the territories of Spain. You tell me about Andalusia and Huelva in particular, although it is true that you have made an exhibition of other autonomous communities. I am from Huelva, I want my land deeply and I want there to be prosperity and employment in Huelva in decent and quality conditions. Always keep it in mind. But bear in mind that this province has a first-rate agriculture, an agriculture that is prime for Huelva, for Andalusia and for Spain, because the autonomous, the entrepreneurs, the workers, the social partners and all the public administrations are engaged every day without exception, the provincial deputy with the municipalities, the Andalusian Board and the Spanish Government, because we are working together to create prosperity and employment on our land. In Huelva alone there are almost one hundred thousand jobs between direct and indirect jobs and more than six million peonadas in the agricultural sector, especially red fruit. Huelva is the first Spanish province to produce red fruit throughout Spain, with 97% of the national total and 30% of the European total. He is the largest strawberry producer in Europe and the second largest in the world, after the United States. In 2018 - you said well - 11,200 hectares of red fruit were planted, 11% more than the previous year, which resulted in a production of more than 302,500 tons, with a value of 450 million euros for strawberry and 360 million euros for berry, for the rest of the red fruit. Nine out of every ten euros of the Spanish trade balance for the sale of red fruits - nine out of every ten - come from Huelva and half of the surplus of the trade balance with the outside of Andalusia in red fruits presents Huelva. In addition, there is an innovative and auxiliary industry that protects and makes it competitive and a wide network of services. And Huelva, Your Honor, has been a vanguard in Europe for launching what we call original recruitment in 2001 and has been an example of good recruitment practice for third countries to bring in timers during the campaign, so much so that it is good European practice and we have gone to international forums such as the Global Forum on Migration and Development to present it to the international community. Because we got with third countries two great things: income for those people who come to work and improve their quality of life when they return to their country and also the very learning of those people who come to our land, experience that serves to develop it in their countries. Therefore, a system of recruitment, I insist, is good for Huelva and Andalusia and also for those countries of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, this year - as you and I have commented here, not this morning in the House - there is between January and June in Huelva a demand, an offer of employment, according to employers, to work in the red fruit sector of 11,900 people. The Junta de Andalucía publishes these offers in its panel of the Andalusian Employment Service and only 800 people from all over Andalusia are targeted. If those temps didn't come to Huelva, there would be red fruits uncollected and peonadas uncovered, something we can't afford in a situation of economic recovery that hasn't ended yet. Therefore, this system of original recruitment that we have in Huelva responds to a need to give employment and to meet the demands of the sector in production. In addition, the sector is being modernised and is innovating to improve product quality, food security, marketing and extending campaigns so that people stay longer to work in Huelva too because we extend that campaign so that there is collection at all times. Even the protected geographical indication is being processed by the sector in order to increase Huelva's competitiveness. We know clearly, Your Honor, you and I, because I am from San Juan del Puerto and my grandfather was a farmer and, therefore, you do not have to tell me what agriculture is in Huelva, which is of the temporaries and which is not and the hardness of what the countryside is, which is worked day by day hard and also by night, but also works at night in other economic activities throughout the national territory. These people must be paid what they deserve, with dignity always, and for that there are collective agreements, also those of the countryside, where trade unions and employers improve working conditions every year. That's also what we do for all public administrations, believe me, the Government of Spain, the Junta de Andalucía, the municipalities and local corporations to ensure that this is the case at all times. But let us not make a generalization and a twisting exhibition of a sector that creates a lot of wealth in this country and that is a great industry for Spain and for so many workers in the Andalusian and Onubese countryside. You also told me about the Profea, which is a specific program for Andalusia, for the workers in the field in which we have invested a lot since the ministry and we have improved it every year, also now, which has generated almost a million contracts since 2012. In addition, we have been able to adapt to the circumstances. When weather conditions were adverse, such as last year's drought, the peonadas have been reduced from thirty-five to twenty so that no worker in the Andalusian countryside loses any right to a subsidy or agrarian income for lack of peonadas and all their rights are being covered normally, Your Honor. We cut it because the decrease in production in Andalusia was 20% and in Extremadura by 10% and it is done in relation to the actual production that is lost. If we eliminate the peonadas, we would be faced with a social income of the Andalusian Board, it would not be a subsidy or an income derived from employment. [[Applauds]] Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I have explained this to you either as an active or as a passive, it is the great conquest of the Andalusian and Extreme countryside for decades. Oh, my God! Let us not break the chains of solidarity that our model of protection has. Mr President, every year there are non-Community and third-country temporary workers coming to our land to work with us, but they come with a clear regulatory framework. According to Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament, which was transposed in 2015 in Spain, they are subject to the same conditions under which temporary workers work, at least in my province, Your Honor, which is what I know best of all Andalusia. It regulates the conditions of entry and also the conditions of stay. This Onubense model of recruitment in origin gives them the right to contractual conditions in accordance with the Huelva collective agreement, access to counselling services in employment offices, health care in the National Health System and adequate accommodation that meets the conditions laid down in the regulations and that guarantees the dignity and hygiene of such persons in accommodation. In addition, it guarantees equal treatment, like the rest of the working Spanish citizens, in the social rights covered by this employment contract. Note, many, most of those Huelva tempers, repeat every year precisely because they find employment in good condition, accommodation and good treatment by the entrepreneurs of Huelva and Andalusia. That is why I do not allow you to give me that description of the Andalusian and Huelva countryside, because it is not true and it is a great injustice with the employers, the workers, the administrations and the unions and the employer, that we work on that. [[Applauds]] I don't allow it. Moreover, I say to him: if there is an irregular situation, report it, I will be next to you because it harms us all and that is why it will be persecuted. Do you know what this ministry has done? Whether the inspection works every day to maintain the guarantee of the rights of all workers, whether temporary or non-temporary, non-Community or Spanish More than 105 000 actions have been taken, there are 27 000 infringements and liquidation files opened for a value of EUR 86 million. [[Applauds]] Do not sow suspicions, do not tarnish the Huelva brand of the red fruits of Spain, which is a pride for Huelva and for all of Spain. Don't do it, please. If you have to denounce any particular situation - and you have also referred to a very specific one - we will be with you and with the person affected all the administrations by hand, the unions, the employer, the Andalusian Board, the provincial parliament, the municipalities and the Government of Spain and, of course, the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. By the way, if your children have detected any irregularities at work, why have they not gone to report you to the Civil Guard or the court on guard? [[Applauds]] That's what they should have done, Mr. Congressman. Don't frivolize with that. I tell you that our tolerance is zero with abuse, but it does not generalize and do not show in the Andalusian countryside and in the Huelva countryside something that is not true, because we are always on the same side, Your Honor, on the side of a leading sector, innovative, creator of wealth, employment, opportunities and which is also good for Andalusia and Spain. We are also at the side of legality. The same rights as Spanish nationals working in the field are enjoyed by third-country nationals, who come with great effort and pride to work in Spain to bring their families forward in the countries of origin. We regard them, Your Honor, as our own and, as such, we take care of them and monitor their working conditions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Cañamero Valle then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you know that my behavior as a person is not to fight anyone because I have quite a Christian behavior in that aspect of life and so I have educated myself. Therefore, I never use politics or this to confront anyone or to fight anyone, simply to describe concrete realities that need to be solved. And I don't think I should bother you if I tell you the truth. The truth is raw, but it's the pure reality. Forgive me for tutoring you, but the truth is, that's how we're so much closer. You've said here, for example, some things I think it's not fair for you to say. Let's see, the newspapers of the newspapermen, the pawnshops. There are a lot of people - I repeat here - who have to humiliate themselves before an entrepreneur to sell them peonadas. [[Applauds]] And as I've said many times, I've been mayor of a town for ten years and I know what I'm talking about and, as a newspaperman, I also know what I'm talking about. They have to buy pawns in order to survive, in order to be able to charge those 430 euros, which is 7 euros a day. 7 euros a day, that's the per of the laborers! 7 euros a day, those who are entitled. They don't think the PER is a salary or a grant; it's 7 euros a day, okay? And the Prophet is not only for Andalusia and Extremadura, minister, the Prophet is for eight autonomous communities, eight. When you talk here about people coming in with decent housing in their original contracts... minister, we had to report a house in El Rocío. Do you know how many women there were in El Rocío's house? Can you imagine? Eighty. They washed every three weeks, when I touched them. There were three bathrooms; it is true that there were seven rooms, but there were eighty Poles in the house, in bunk beds, in the kitchen, in the dining room, in the whole house. We file the complaint, as appropriate. Is it true that the inspectors visit the field where the original contractors live? I did visit them, didn't I? Perfectly. Why do immigrants come? Because in their countries there's misery, there's hunger, that's why they come. Why are the conventions in Huelva and Almería the lowest in Spain? You want to tell me? Why are the collective agreements of Almería and Huelva the lowest in all of Spain? Because immigrants are abused, people are abused. I think we need to take action. I will put some measures to you, but first I will tell you one thing. I've been visiting this camp. [[Show a picture]] I don't know if you can see it from there. He hasn't told me about these settlements, he hasn't told me. Do you know how many people are in these settlements? About 3,000 people, approximately. In Lepe and in the three milling regions of Huelva. There are six counties in Huelva, we have 520,000 inhabitants, there are 79 municipalities, 60% are very small villages in the region. These are settlements. This settlement is that of the Mothers. Look at you, minister, I wouldn't have to teach this but I have to teach it today because my soul and heart fell. See this picture? [[Show another photograph]] He is an Gambian immigrant who hung himself from a pine tree on April 27. He came from Libya through Italy and came here. And as the mobs ask him for money to come and also owe them more money, they threaten him with his family and as he had been in this camp for four months without work and without the possibility of doing a job, so that they would not harm his family, he took his life. This is the reality in Huelva. Not all Huelva, I also want to make a defense of farmers, eye! There are very honest farmers, compliant farmers, farmers who comply with everything. But a large part of it does not comply with this, it does not comply with any rights, and the Government is also complicit in what is happening. Because, of course, minister, I'm talking about this settlement just 10 kilometers from San Juan del Puerto, and the mayor of Palos has a settlement in his own town and they pick up the trash, he's aware of what's going on there. [[The lady]] I finish, Madam President, you're going to let me say three quick things in a second. It is necessary, Minister, special labour inspectors to come out daily like the Seprona. You know what Seprona is, don't you? The Civil Guard that leaves motorized or by car 4×4 visiting the fires or visiting if there is any spill, etc. We need special inspectors to come out every day. There is also a need for trade union elections in the countryside. The eventuals have no representation in the field because to be a delegate you have to be six months old and to be able to vote a month old. There are no delegates in the field. Do you know, minister, that I went a short time ago to distribute octaves and they wanted to hit me? Do you know, minister, that we were talking at an assembly in a town and using drums they wouldn't let me talk? Do you know, minister, that they dumped the megaphony car for announcing in that area? Everyone in that area knows what's going on and we need to eliminate that. There must be trade union elections. The inspectors need to visit. It is also necessary for non-compliance in the field, throughout the State, to be linked to aid under Community agricultural policy, so that if they do not comply with the law, there is no aid under Community agricultural policy. It is necessary to investigate companies, ETTs and service companies, which have become corrupt companies, which take immigrants and transfer them from Valencia to Murcia, from Murcia to Andalusia, everywhere. ETTs and service companies are companies of dubious legality. We need the government and the administration to put in the means, because if they don't put in the means, minister, we'll be hurting the strawberry in Huelva. And they are hurting him, because in Germany, in France, in all European countries and elsewhere people know what is happening, and you, the government and the public administration, will be guilty of cutting aid for strawberries, blueberries, raspberries and blackberries in Europe someday because of this situation of exploitation in the 21st century. That is why I ask you to solve this problem. Thank you very much. [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u196	To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u197	First of all, the Profea is, in fact, preferably for Andalusia and Extremadura and for other unpopulated or unprotected areas of Spain. But preferably, more than 95% of the funds are taken by Andalusia and Extremadura, and you know it as well as I do. Secondly, it is not true what you have said because particular and irregular situations that must be pursued, investigated and brought about by them are not the general nature of the Onubense and Andalusian camp. And it is quite unfair for you to make one, two or three particular cases the general tone of how the sector, its workers, its businesses, its social partners work. I think you should be a little more respectful and cautious in your statements and help the administrations, from their responsibility, to pursue any irregular situation because in that way, in that of the law, we all accompany you. On the other hand, Your Honor, it is good that you ask for things from the Government, but, man, do not ask the Government to renew the collective agreement on the countryside, which is the responsibility of the unions and the employer of the Andalusian countryside. We can do many things from the administration, improve the welfare of workers and their working conditions, but the collective agreement corresponds to the bipartite bargaining area of trade unions and employers. At that point, believe me that I wish, as you do, that the agreements will normally be renewed and that the wages and conditions of the workers will be improved, I say that every day, in the Andalusian countryside and at the general level, because we have to incorporate Spanish workers in all parts of Spain into recovery. But, Your Honor, do not describe that image of Huelva that is not reality. And I certainly do not allow you to say that the Government is complicit in this situation, because it is a serious accusation. The Government is complicit in the legality, the fight for the competitiveness of enterprises and the well-being and the improvement of the working conditions of workers, of all workers, also of temporary workers. So, Your Honor, I ask you to be a little more thoughtful and prudent in that. In conclusion, as always I do with you to raise any issue with me, if you have any input to make let's talk about it because it will be for the benefit of the Spanish workers and the foreigners who come to work with us, which is the great goal of all of us sitting in this House. But, Your Honor, do not do what you did this morning, which is, from the irregularities of particular situations, to accuse the whole sector of being a driver of growth, development, innovation, quality employment and prosperity for Huelva and also for Spain. From here I want to thank the companies, the self-employed, the workers in the countryside, the unions, the employers, all the public administrations of Huelva, because they are making Huelva in the field of agri-food an example and a pride for the brand Spain in the world. It is an innovative agriculture and also a source of opportunity and the agri-food industry of red fruit, berry, which is the strawberry and the rest of the red fruit of Huelva, is in all the international markets for its quality, not only as an agricultural product, but also for how this product has been made in the field, with good working conditions and also following the European model of recruitment in the field that this Spanish Government applies. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u198	Thank you very much. REPORT OF THE PEOPLE'S DEFENSE CORRESPONDING TO THE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2017. - REPORT OF THE PEOPLE'S DEFENSE CORRESPONDING TO THE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2017. [[File number 260/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u199	We continue with the agenda item on the Ombudsman's report on the management carried out during 2017. As you know, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the deliberations will begin once the Ombudsman in office has completed the presentation of his report. For the presentation of a summary of the report, I call on the Ombudsman, Mr Francisco Fernández Marugán.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. After almost thirty years of parliamentary life, being back in this rostrum is a situation in which both gratitude and satisfaction are combined. I never thought I could address Congress to you on a subject that has, as we will see throughout my speech, many important elements. In addition, six years have passed since Concepciò Ferrer i Casals and I had the honour of being elected by you for the role of Deputy Defender. I compare, as the president has said, to report on the management carried out throughout 2017 in my capacity as interim Ombudsman, replacing Doña Soledad Becerril, who was the Ombudsman until July 2017. We all know that the Ombudsman's role is the defence of fundamental rights and that he has very broad powers for that defence, which he exercises autonomously and according to his judgement. In that work we want to be more than just a box of complaints. We need to address those issues that citizens are asking us, analyze them and make a diagnosis that leads us to the root and find out what is behind them. That is, from my point of view, our constitutional role. But let me tell you that complaints have an intrinsic logic. They talk about what the public authorities do wrong or not. I don't know anyone who comes to the human rights defender to tell him how well he's doing in life. To those who do well in life, when they have to go somewhere, they will express their satisfaction and give thanks. It is not up to us to do so. Our reports are often uncomfortable and sometimes cold water jars are thrown at some actions and for certain policies. I'm fully aware that, in the kind of commissions you assume at this time, when you leave you have less friends than when you arrived, but, well, that's the way it is and we must understand it. Why do these things happen? They happen, unfortunately, because in modern societies there are more and more people falling out of the car every day and being marginalized. A few days ago I had the opportunity to listen and after reading the intervention of a Nicaraguan writer, Mr. Ramírez, who said that closing the eyes, turning off the light and lowering the blinds means ignoring the social reality of the moment. I have to say that I share that view, but I also do not want nor can I try to ignore the social reality of this moment. From this moment on, I would like to highlight the basic statistics of what we have done. We have processed 25,776 cases, of which about 20,000 are complaints from citizens, 760 are ex officio proceedings and 40 are requests for constitutional remedies. We have also adopted 2338 resolutions, 567 more than in 2016. I have made this consideration of a quantitative nature, and I ask myself and I ask you - I will answer you - what citizens complain about. Citizens complain about the poor functioning of public services, whether those provided directly by the Administration, or those provided by other institutions indirectly, and there are some public services in Spain that are too often flawed. But they also complain about the existence of an economic crisis that has caused them problems in the exercise of rights related to health, education or social policy, to quote some of them. When I tried to think about what I was going to talk to you about this morning, I immediately refused to repeat the things I had raised in the Joint Commission on Relations with the Ombudsman. Why? Because it seems to me that it had to make that conception come true by virtue of which the questions are analysed and a diagnosis is made. However, I would like to be able to highlight some facts that seem to me to be significant. I will highlight three major problems that seem to me to be relevant and that we should be able to resolve among all: firstly, those related to gender-based violence and the wage gap; secondly, the problems that arise in the administration of justice, and thirdly, those that occur in the civil registry. Why have I differentiated these three blocks? First, because these kinds of problems persist over time; secondly, because they generate many complaints, and thirdly, because they affect hundreds of thousands of citizens. Let us first of all talk about gender-based violence. Unfortunately, it is a reality present in Spain; it is a reality that has caused more than 1,000 women to have been murdered in our society since 2003, 27 girls and boys to lose their mother last year and 8 minors to be killed by their father. One of the things we have repeatedly said is therefore justified: an abuser can never be a good father and an orphan of gender-based violence must find some protection mechanisms in Spanish society. In the Ombudsman we were very pleased to see that an agreement had been reached, a state pact against gender-based violence, and also that in the 2018 budgets an important amount was provided to deal with these kinds of problems and to address some emergencies. In carrying out these initiatives, it seems to us that it is essential that the whole of society be united against macho violence, that it be strongly rejected and that it make the necessary efforts to put an end to this madness. We therefore believe that boys and girls have to learn from children that relations between men and women must always be based on respect and freedom. Education plays a very important role here. Kant said: The human being is what education does to him. Moreover, in the twenty-first century, it is not acceptable for there to be employment discrimination and a wage gap such as that in our society. We are all aware that female employment rates are lower than male employment rates, which means that unemployment is more important among women. Some facts that are significant and of concern to us have just been published this morning. The concentration of low wages in women is very common. The salaries are lower, 22% lower than the men's salaries, but I would have to say that a record similar to what I bring here today in front of your ladies and gentlemen happened eight years ago. It's moving forward, but it's moving slowly. In Spain women have difficulty finding an occupation, but also, once they find it, they have difficulty in continuing to fight and being able to break the glass ceiling. Action must therefore be taken against the wage gap and reconciliation systems must be put in place. In the world of justice, we have our competences highly valued. In fact, we are concerned and concerned about the operation of the Judicial Office, its personal and material means and its disposition can reach those who have the responsibility to judge and those who have the responsibility to execute the judgment. One of the things that happens is that we find that justice is still slow, which is not as fast as citizens want. This is a structural problem for which it seems that we have not yet found a solution. In the report you will be able to find very specific references to problems in the commercial, criminal and social courts. These dysfunctions have resulted in an unusual event that occurred a few days ago, a strike by judges and prosecutors. The third group of problems arises around the Civil Registry, where a law whose implementation is systematically postponed is adopted. We are in a situation of provisionality that affects all citizens who come to the services of the Civil Registry to register for birth, death or marriage, but also affects thousands of foreign citizens who request the acquisition of nationality in Spain. According to our data, there are pending resolutions about four hundred thousand nationality files. Therefore, I do want to say in the House, as other defenders before me said, that the Civil Registry does not work. I'd dare say we're in front of a case of disdain. The other kind of problems that concern citizens in Spain are related to human rights, in particular to that part of human rights that we could call economic, social and cultural rights, which have to do with work, with social security, with health, with adequacy, with housing, with a number of factors that contribute to making life more dignified. These kinds of rights, ladies and gentlemen, are not a declaration of good intentions, they are not; they are obligations that are contracted by the States and that the Spanish Constitution of 1978 proclaims when it says that citizens have, simply because they are, recognized social rights, that the State and the administrations have the responsibility to carry out and the Ombudsman has the responsibility to ensure their fulfilment. This is a problem that arises at this time, where a great recession and a strong crisis have generated a set of harmful effects that have affected public policies and, therefore, a large group of society, women, children, the disabled, refugees, immigrants - we are concerned about that - and this has been very evident since 2007, when the pace of economic activity contracted and when a string of difficulties spread across Spanish society as a whole. The standard of living fell drastically in households located in the middle and lower strata of the system and inequality gained maximum visibility; there was a process of impoverishment that was motivated by a transfer of income from the lower part of society to the upper part of society. Therefore, we experienced a phenomenon of contraction of the available resources and of struggle for the distribution of those available resources, which were scarce, but which were also convulsed by some changes that had occurred in the Spanish middle classes. These have been years when we have said goodbye to normal times, to those times when the disposable income of all households improved and entered another period when many households saw their economic conditions deteriorate. After a long, very long phase of rapprochement with the rhythms and realities of the European Union, we saw that the recession led us to a phase of divergence that for many continues to exist at this time. The OECD, which pointed out that the growth of inequality in Spain was generated by the increase in poverty, and fixed it over time, said the first thing. The severe poor increased from 2 per cent of the population in 2007 to 5 per cent in 2009 and 5 per cent of the population in 2013. It can be defined up to a perimeter of inequality. In this inequality were the conscious working class - let me use a classic language in this sense -, the workers who always felt somehow threatened and believed that they could be punished for a crisis that was relatively difficult to master. There was a second circuit too, that of the middle classes. In Spain, the middle classes have borne less costs than the workers, but it is no less true that they felt threatened, and rightly so, and that they thought they would have to endure difficulties that they did not know before. Some found that social stabilizers, with which the shock absorbers were weak and, as they were weak, had little redistributive power and, as they had little redistributive power, could not prevent an increase in inequality. The citizens addressed us and expressed their complaints, saying that they were concerned that the responses offered by the Governments - the Governments - were not satisfactory enough. In addition, this concern was soon expressed in dismay and has been emerging in a different way. I do not want to have to resort, although I am going to do so, to say that recently these citizens, whether from the traditional wage earners, whether from the middle classes, have jumped into the street and made a clear demonstration of their concern. I would like to give a more optimistic view of what I have provided so far. The toughest stage of growth has been overcome. The INE has just told us that the data for 2017 are similar to those that lived in 2008, that is, nominal GDP now has the level it had ten years ago. However, this period is characterized by the lack of attention that has been felt in many public authorities by the equitable sharing of the costs generated by the great recession. As I think he has been given little attention, I will devote an important part of my speech to talking about the distribution. I will try to see what are the essential characteristics of this moment. I think it is appropriate to talk about growth, but I think it is right to correlate it with employment. The last thing I know about employment in Spain is that of social security contributors. I would have to say that there has been a double circumstance here: there is a period of falling social security contributors and there is a period of recovery of social security contributors. The fall occurs between 2007 and 2012 and the recovery occurs between 2013 and 2018. More than 3 million jobs disappear in the fall and 2.2 million jobs are generated in the recovery, a negative balance still of 800,000 jobs. I was educated in classical economic thinking, and we were taught that when analyzing data and facts, we had to contemplate supply and demand. We had to work with two hands and, working with two hands, one comes to the conclusion that, somehow, it is excessively simple to stay in the analysis of the recovery phase and that it does not lead to anything remaining in the stagnation phase. I therefore believe that we have high economic growth. And around recovery, economists speculate; and not only about recovery, but also about more things, but what they come to say is that recovery is fragile and that, being fragile, we must take into account some external disturbances that can occur in it. In any case, recovery has not been neutral. The recovery has made us pay a high cost and I will state the elements and circumstances where I believe there has been a high cost. There has been a high cost in the disappearance of thousands, some millions, of jobs. There has been a high cost in the innumerable number of evictions; multiple and numerous social benefits have been abolished; the rights earned at the heart of the effort and the treasure of many previous generations - that is part of the costs of recovery - have disappeared, and we have also witnessed the consolidation and recapitalisation of the financial sector in Spain. It is a long, very long, stage of crisis; a high price to overcome it; a considerable effort with a high social cost and, as always in life, winners and losers. This kind of diagnosis, which I can do here quickly to identify the problem we are facing, has also been done by the IMF, which has said and maintained that we are facing a non-inclusive recovery, in which the mechanisms for sharing the benefits of growth have not worked. Such harshness has produced mistrust, and broad layers of society bring to us a significant number of complaints. Where the complaints have been noted - this is the diagnosis of this situation made by the Ombudsman - it is in the labour market, where a large number of people find it difficult to find a job, and where employment is concrete, on most occasions, after long periods of unemployment, and after the occupations to which they have access in many cases are of poor quality. Eurostat, which is not precisely a body that does not know these kinds of issues, has just made sure that we get out of the crisis without having solved the main labour problem that this society has since the 1980s, temporality. Look, we've made twelve reforms to the Workers' Statute, and the closest ones were made in 2010, 2011 and 2012, and they're there. The 2012 one is poorly valued because some believe that it contributed to weakening the union power. I do not believe that all the problems of inequality, precariousness and wage devaluation are imputed or can be imputed to the 2012 reform, I do not think so. However, I say this because these problems of inequality, precariousness and low productivity were already in Spanish society when these reforms were approved. But I do have to say that it has not been corrected, but it has sharpened them, accentuated the deregulation of collective bargaining. And as a result, today we find a fact that some people consider questionable - some people and some institutions -. Employers are getting more power to set wages, to set hours and to put all kinds of limitations on working conditions. This, which I believe and say in this rostrum because it affects thousands of people, has just been said by the Bank of Spain, which has literally said that competitiveness gains vis-à-vis the euro area have fallen more in labour costs than in business margins. It is a consequence of some decisions that we have taken in society as a whole. We have a binomial where the wage reduction is squeezed as a standard, but where the hiring moves in an extraordinary range of precariousness. Here contracts are made for months, weeks, days and even hours, and this is a rather unfair mechanism that affects in a very important way certain groups: young people, without a doubt, and people with low qualifications. Among the latter are high levels of unemployment with very low wages. There is, therefore, an injustice in the development of industrial relations, which is not only unfair but inefficient because temporary and part-time recruitment has been abused. The second problem that is highlighted by citizens when it comes to addressing our institutions is that of budgetary reality and fiscal reality, and both have been fundamental notebooks of the welfare state. Citizens have been addressing the Ombudsman for years by saying in their complaints that the tax system is less progressive now than before, and they also say that public spending is equally less equitable now than before. You have been watching and analysing budgets last week and have had the opportunity to approach the budget stability programme for the period 2018-2021. Well, if you take the trouble to see how some public spending has evolved in this period, you will see that there are historical series that tell us that there has been a reduction in social spending since 2013 here. I will point it out in three functions that are very important for the standard of living of citizens: in education, where we are in historical minimums - we are in 3.8 when we had been in 4.5-; at a time when surprisingly investment in human capitalization acquires a special relevance, we find that in Spain, instead of moving forward, we are going back. There is also this downward shift in health and social protection spending, which in 2013 was 18% of GDP and is now 15.88 of GDP. Funds have therefore been lacking for investment in schools, for investment in hospitals, for housing and for social services. I told them before I conceived the Ombudsman's role by combining analysis and diagnosis. The complaints about the lack of investment in some services as important as education led me to worry about other types of investment that also affect many public services. Public investment between 2007 and 2017 has fallen by EUR 32 billion and is currently at 1.9% of GDP. We have gone from being one of the most investor countries in Europe to being part of the European Union as a whole that invests least: we are on the tail of the Union. From my point of view - I dare say this because I believe - you all, as you would say in some areas of Spain, have the opportunity to reflect on the importance of labour reform and budgetary reform. We have acted on both things with excessive weakness, and made such as long-term unemployment, temporaryity and precarious conditions of recruitment have left a mark on Spanish households that should be corrected, and that have limited the capacity for growth of the present moment and who knows if the articulation of the future. I repeat what the Banco de España has pointed out, which I believe is a respectable institution, at least for me as a professional and as a citizen. The Banco de España has said that income inequality has worsened with the crisis, mainly due to the conditions of the labour market, which has been the main catalyst for such inequalities, and has said so correctly over time. In the hard years of adjustment, per capita inequality was high, but in the years of recovery, inequality has been reduced only moderately. Here is an imbalance that somehow we should be able to correct. Inequality exists in income, but it also exists in wealth, and the Banco de España literally says so too. The richest Spaniards, those who are among the 10% highest in income, accumulate 44% of the wealth of all households; they accumulated it in 2008, and in 2014 they accumulate 53%, 9% more. Therefore, stay with an idea, I sincerely say, stay with the idea that public entities in Spain spend less on education, health, housing, social services and support for families in poverty. I tell him, and someone can say, "If the Ombudsman doesn't say so, who's going to say it?" More people say that. The Ombudsman says it, he says it because he believes it. Here there has been a circumstance where from the policies that we endorse the different public authorities a relatively severe policy has been made. I am perfectly aware that my intervention is not heartwarming. I didn't expect it to be fun. I have wondered: if these things are so, is it worth maintaining some of the things that I have been exposing? Honestly, being the economy as it is, in a clear process of recovery, I believe that the time has come to heal the wounds that the crisis has opened and that are not yet closed. We have an opportunity to improve social conditions, the conditions of income and consumption levels in those groups that have not yet reached a position of dignity and have strong needs. The benefits of growth do not reach all, and I believe that we need to face a process of sharing that helps those in a situation of unprotectedness. That is what I say, it is true, the Ombudsman says, but it is also said by the OECD, the UN, the ILO, the European Commission, the IMF, Eurostat and the Bank of Spain, and will soon be said by the Bank of Spain and the National Securities Market Commission, and Caritas, and the IVIE, that if someone does not know who the IVIE is, it is an excellent economic research centre that exists in the Valencian community. I am glad that they all say what we from the Ombudsman have been saying. I am going to approach the world of unprotected people, the situations that they suffer collectively and which we in the Ombudsman are not prepared to resign ourselves to. These are the cases of the long-term unemployed, who, by the way, are mostly women, poor workers, families in which all their members are unemployed, young people without work and without the right to unemployment benefit and also retirees, dependent persons, children and girls in child poverty and those who do not have the resources to reach the end of the month. The situation of these groups is a serious situation, and I have to warn and say that it cannot be assumed that because of the mere fact that the level of economic activity that GDP had in 2008 has recovered, the problems of this group of our compatriots will be solved. I do not believe in dripping, I do not share the belief that through the slow dripping of the economic activity produced by the market, against which I have no criterion or animating bias, these people are going to solve their problems. If we want to face the inequality that exists in Spanish society, we have to carry out an active, determined and sustained policy in the time of redistribution of income. I have a deep conviction that today in Spain many citizens are still waiting for state aid and that they need that help and that protective action from the public authorities, and they say so in their complaints. I had doubts as to how to deal with this issue in preparation for my speech. I had doubts because I looked for the actions that were deployed in the years of the crisis to cover this type of deficiencies, and unfortunately I did not find them. In the hard years of readjustment I did not find the slightest desire to recalibrate the welfare state or to implement new social policies with or without improvements to existing ones. The social state has been being converted and in this conversion to the social elevator it was changed meaning and, instead of rising as it had risen, it was dropped, and with it many civil rights and many social rights were reduced; they were reduced while increasing inequality. I believe that this State has to respond and has to make a compromise which, of course, must be made around economic and financial activity, but it must also protect citizens who are in danger of staying on the road in these times of difficulty. I do not believe in the positions of those who argue that the proper performance of public tasks must be reduced, the content of economic activity must be reduced and the content of economic activity, whether private or public, must be jibarized. A busy State can hardly solve the problems of this society, so we need a more committed State that favours job creation, provides enough for the main public policies of a social nature, and raises with honesty and transparency the role and desirability of taxes. I believe that, despite the antipathy that many profess towards taxes, they are the strongest, most consistent and most orthodox instrument that can be found to finance spending on schools, infrastructure and social protection directed at the segments of an ageing and, to a large extent, impoverished society. I end by reminding Martin Luther King, that at one point in his life he said that neither inequality nor poverty was anything new; neither inequality nor poverty was nothing new; that what is new is that we now have resources to remedy them and now we have resources to remedy them and, therefore, to make the gap not widen. Let us prevent the gap from widening in Spain and, in order to achieve it, let us launch a social recovery programme. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much, Madam President, for allowing me the privilege of going back to this rostrum where I came so many times and where I was happy and happy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u201	Many thanks to the Ombudsman. Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols took part in the position-setting session by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u202	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. [[The lady]] Let's start with the figures: 24,976 complaints, which means 8491 more than last year. Where did they come from? It turns out that in Catalonia last year there were 1425 and this year there were 4284, an exponential increase practically. And although one of the complaints I am going to pass on to the defender is that we cannot know his materiality, curiously this exponential growth of complaints in Catalonia go, in matters of the Interior, specifically addressed to the State. With which, white is and in bottle they sell it. Complaints in Catalonia have quadrupled and are addressed to the State, specifically the Ministry of the Interior. I have not agreed - because it is not possible - to the materiality of the complaints but I think it is quite clear what has happened, once again - this time through the citizen filter - you can deduce the scandal, the discomfort that in Catalonia has generated repression after October 1. But I'll leave it here because I want to review the defense's entire report. Refugees. For Europe as a whole, the figure was 160 000. The Spanish quota was 17,337. How many have actually taken care of themselves? 1980, 11.4% of the commitment. This is what we might call shame. There are more than 70 000 applications for asylum in the Spanish State pending. Indignant. I will set the example of the Generalitat but we could set the example of many municipalities. The Generalitat offers - from article 138 of the statute, which gives it powers of reception and integration - 4500 sites where to install a significant part of these 17,337 refugees who touch us. Have you been answered? Well, neither do they. It seems that even with what they call: Solution seeks problem, that is to say having the solution that will seek the problem, nor is it accepted that these refugees come. [[Rumors]] I repeat, the Generalitat offers 4500 sites...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u203	Mr. Congressman, one second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent at this time, as the Ombudsman must listen from above to the Members who are speaking. It's not that they're making a lot of noise, but I want them to be especially quiet so he can listen to them from above. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u204	President, I'm sorry, but you've been running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u205	Don't worry about it, I'll know how to reward you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u206	Thank you very much. As I said, no more or less, 4500 places are offered for refugees. It turns out that the Spanish State has to cover 17,337, only covers 1980 and this offer is still denied. As is the case of the Generalitat of Catalonia, so is that of many municipalities and other autonomous communities. The conclusion is obvious: the Government of the State does not want refugees. Of course, he doesn't want them. It is a political decision by which the Spanish State does not want refugees. Other scandalous situations arising from the report of the defending officer are the foreign vote. It turns out that citizens who are abroad, due to the system of petitioned votes, are prevented in practice from being able to vote. The Electoral Law has to be changed because only about 4% or 5% of the votes are obtained because the ballots do not arrive, because the answers do not arrive, because they arrive out of time, etc. We are depriving a fundamental right to an important volume of citizens to take into account as well. Finally, the malfunction of certain public services, as is the case with the issue of the DNI where every summer is a genuine odyssey. It is not only a matter of many people surely losing their holidays, but of many people who are going to do business and who are going to contribute to the growth of economic activity, surely also because of this malfunctioning of the public service issuing the national identity document cannot do so. I think I've made a small summary of what the defender's report has been. I believe that we should all bear in mind that complaints have grown, that instead of Social Services for the first time they go to the Interior and that there is a series of malfunctioning public services that are absolutely intolerable, and that is also the reception policy or rather the absolute absence of reception policy that the Government of the State has. Thank you, President, for your patience. In the end, compensation was not necessary. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, also for your patience.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols, for also adjusting to the time and I apologize for not having stopped your watch before. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Advocate, welcome. The appearance you had in the Commission, of course, was a kind of preamble to what you were going to say here today. And if there is one thing to acknowledge both in your report and in your speech - I told you in the Commission and I reiterate it again - it is that you have taken into account and fulfilled what you said that while you were a defender you would not look elsewhere. I kept that phrase, and the truth is, I have to admit, you haven't looked anywhere else. It has not been neutral and it seems to me that it has not been neutral because with injustice one cannot be neutral. I believe that confusing neutrality with objectivity is something that sometimes leads us to certain dangerous paths. You have made a speech here today, of course, social democrat. No one is going to deny what you are nor the past you have, no doubt. A Social-Democrat speech with cuts of, let's call it, kind Marxism? Well, let's just leave it that way. In any case, I'm not against what you said. It seems very good to me because everything you have denounced is a social reality of what is happening in the Spanish State. Therefore, when I say that you have not looked elsewhere, I recognise that on the side you have looked very well, perhaps in the absence that you have not looked any further too, because I believe that in your report - which is very detailed, very worked and which has deeply picked up the complaints and without a doubt has given the wasper a turn - there is no implication. Just as you have been involved in some issues so deeply, so in others you should. I think it is very important that you define the problems, the issue of gender-based violence, complaints to public administrations, prison institutions, and human rights as a whole. In the time I have left, I'm going to talk about what you haven't talked about, because I share quite what you have talked about. You know perfectly well that my group complained about some issues relating to the functioning of prison institutions, and you know that we had a certain interest in knowing what was going on in some prisons, such as in Albolote, for example, in relation to which we had received complaints because women were being discriminated against against men because women were being asked to do jobs that were not required of men, etc., and we asked you to investigate it. You know that we have had a critical stance with the removal of what the government is doing. You know perfectly well that the approach of prisoners to the nearest prisons where their families live is not a concession to those who have committed a crime, but is something that is in the law, that is to comply with the law, and that families do not have to pay any double punishment because their relatives are in prison. You know we've had a lot of impact on that. We would also have liked you to talk about education because you - and you said it at the hearing - were happy with the existence of a state pact, although you know that in the end you have not come anywhere. And I told you that, just as you were doing that, the Ombudsman also had to worry about whether the State was doing what it had to do in terms of education in terms of maintaining its competence and not interfering where it did not, and see if you, as a Ombudsman, really had to defend the rights of the Autonomous Communities and the transfers they had. You were also very right - and I thanked you - when you failed to respond to that request they made to you for recourse to the quota law. It seems to me that you were quite right because, on what is rightfully the responsibility of the Basque Autonomous Community, you must say when the law is being enforced and when it is not being enforced, but also when it is up to one to make others comply with the law. In that sense - and I am ending because I see that I am running out of time - I am going to focus on a subject that you have focused on, the democratic deficit on the one hand, but I would like it to also have an impact on the democratic deficit that is being experienced in the Spanish State from all areas. I fully agree with some of the issues that you have spoken about, and I believe that the Spanish State is going down in its entirety in democratic culture. I believe that the law is being interpreted, and that legality is imposed when there are no criteria for defending democracy. And it is a fiery nail spring when it is not able to defend democracy in its pure state. It would also be important for you in your report to comment on the attitude of the State Security Forces and Corpses on 1 October in Catalonia. The image that was given to the outside was embarrassing, I told him in the Commission, but the embarrassing thing was not so much the image; the embarrassing thing was the fact that it had to act that way before people that all I wanted was to vote. Political problems are solved politically, and what happened in Catalonia was a rather unfortunate fact that leaves the Spanish State quite poorly standing. Your report responds to your vision of what you believe should be the Ombudsman's work, and I think it is right that I should follow the criterion of 'I will not look elsewhere'. We will always be accompanying him in denouncing what the State and public administrations do not comply with and must do. I would also like to tell you about his vision, that it is not possible for anyone to take away his personality, his past, and his ideology; all he is asked to do is do his job well, and I believe that so far, in the report he has presented to us, he has done well. I hope, if you follow, that you continue to do the same, but don't look aside, look also at other sides you haven't looked at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u209	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. For the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Mr ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of this report, it should not be more incognito than the obvious fact that fundamental rights and freedoms are still being violated in the State, but our group goes beyond its assessment of the democratic deficits of the Spanish State. We do not believe that these are just specific cases of violation of freedoms, we are talking more about chronification, even institutionalization of the violation of rights. The law bites, for example, that you did not even resort to the Constitutional Court, would be a clear example of a violation of rights. All this obviously affects the democratic quality of the Spanish state and we do not say so, according to the influential British think tank The Economist, Spain is at risk of being degraded to imperfect democracy. In the index of democracy produced each year by the same The Economist, Spain's qualification in 2017 has been lowered from 8.30 to 8.08 together, to the limit between full and imperfect democracy. It is an indication of the assessment that we have at the external level about what is really going on. In any case, the significance of this report is not so much the complaints and assessments contained in it, with which we would really agree with many of those you have been commenting on, but with what the omissions would be. We attach particular importance to what are the omissions of some aspects. We are surprised how this report obvious cases of gross violations of fundamental rights and freedoms. Once again, the report does not include violations of rights that we have already indicated in previous reports without any results. In fact, we note the violation of linguistic rights in the Valencià and Les Balears country by the State Security Forces, an aggravation that we have been announcing year after year and to which we have not yet received an answer. Or the corroboration or increase of the aggressions by extreme right-wing groups that have been acting with total impunity at different points of the state during 2017, but especially in Catalonia since this autumn. In fact, they think that between 8 September and 11 December 2017 at least 139 violent incidents have been documented in Catalonia that would have a political motivation in defense of the unity of Spain, not including the action of the State Security Forces around 1 October. But what surprises us most - it has already been indicated here - is how this report omits any reference to the flagrant violation of civil and political rights and freedoms in Catalonia by the State between September and December 2017. The only reference is in the chapter on the right to vote and the electoral regime, which shows the bureaucratic obstacles and difficulties in voting by mail during the elections in Catalonia on 21 December. Apart from this little bureaucratic inconvenience, it turns out nothing has happened in Catalonia. Keep one thing in mind, Mr. People's Advocate: in autumn in Catalonia we didn't see you and you probably don't have the vision of what really happened in that place. We assume that you are already at the end of the reports submitted by the Sindico de Greuges de Catalunya - your counterpart in Catalonia - on the events that took place this autumn, if not, I'll let you know. The Sindic in his reports strongly denounces the aggressions of the State Security Forces and Bodies during 1 October and the mismanagement of the Spanish Government. This is reflected in the Servei Català de la Salut report, which reports on a number of 1066 people assisted by health services. I witnessed in a municipality like Alcarraz twenty wounded by police charges for no real reason. Therefore, I can assure you that this really happened. It also criticizes the criminal disproportion with the sovereign leaders and questions whether they can be prosecuted for a crime of rebellion. Therefore the Synod even alerts the democratic limits crossed by the State, warns about normalizing the democratic regression and demands dialogue from all parties. But not only the Syndic, other international human rights non-governmental organizations such as the Human Rights Watch or Amnesty International, with regard to what happened in those months in Catalonia, warn about the clear violation of civil and political rights and freedoms. In both cases, there is a need for effective and independent investigations into the use of violence during the referendum day. You see, Mr. People's Advocate, your duties are not limited to reporting on citizens' complaints about the efficiency of the system, but you can even act on your own initiative. In fact, I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your intervention, which has prevented the extradition to Turkey of two journalists detained in Spain for the violation of human rights in that country, although in Catalonia the memory we have is another. Precisely, in 2006 the then defender of the people filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court for unconstitutionality against the then new Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. If you want, you can intervene. I'm done. We do not understand the omission in the report of the events in Catalonia in autumn 2017. Don't try to whitewash those months of repression and shame, please. Don't try to bleach them. Or have you given up representing Catalan citizenship? In any case, for the next report, 2018, we urge you to take into consideration the assessments that are currently being put forward by other international bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u211	Thank you, Mr. Eritja Ciuro. Mr Gómez García has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome, Mr. Fernández Marugán. Mr Eritja, you are right, the report does not mention the violation of the rights of the opposition by the President of Parliament during all those months. It's true, it's a failure. [[Applauds]] Turning to the report, I would like to congratulate you and your entire team on the 2017 report. As we told you in the Commission, it is a better report, easier to understand and better reflects the situation that the country experienced in 2017. I would also like to thank you for your reply to the questions I put to you in the Commission. The first thing I would like to point out is that we should already have reached a consensus to renew the institution of the Ombudsman. The current one, as she has pointed out, is in operation for the expiration of the mandate of the defender. The ombudsperson would have to be an independent person, unrelated to the political parties and of recognized prestige and value. The institution of the Ombudsman does not have to be a distribution of posts, a distribution of chromosomes to see where we put our own, where we divide between the Ombudsman and his deputies to show gratitude to those people of the party who have been serving for many years. We need to see the institution of the Ombudsman and that is to have an independent one, but this renewal of the Ombudsman will no longer be possible in this legislature because it is over. It is finished, it is finished by the People's Party for its cases of corruption, and we will have to wait for Mr Rajoy to decide at once to call elections so that the new Parliament that comes out of them will be able to elect a new defender of the people, as I say, independent and of recognized prestige and value. As far as the report is concerned, I would like to point out a number of things. The first is the average response time of administrations. Although it is true that it has improved since 2014 - not for universities and other public entities - the average response time, which is sixty-eight days, is totally unacceptable. We cannot allow a wait of more than two months in the replies of the administrations to the Ombudsman in the current times, but, well, we are not very surprised either by the Government's delay in answering the questions posed by the opposition. With regard to one of the most important prerogatives of the Ombudsman, which is the submission of unconstitutionality remedies, we have already told him in the Commission that we believe that a too restrictive approach is applied and that few unconstitutionality remedies are available for all the applications that come to him. Very few requests are answered and, moreover, the report does not indicate why the Ombudsman does not respond to those requests. Turning now to the specific areas of the report, we agree with you that the main problem facing this country is employment. We have a totally disproportionate unemployment rate, the second highest unemployment rate in Europe; only Greece wins us. In addition to the high unemployment rate, we have a problem of precariousness and a problem of temporality. Nine out of ten contracts signed in Spain are temporary and salaries are very low. This high unemployment rate, together with the high precariousness, makes people and especially young people, who are the most affected by the high unemployment rate and the high precariousness, unable to emancipate themselves and cannot develop their life plan. Another concern that he also noted in his report was education. Education has been a priority for citizens. Thus, we had the initiative to form that subcommittee together with the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The penalty is that the partisan interests have been placed here above the general interests of the State and the subcommission by a state pact for education has not been able to move forward. It is a pity, because education is the future of our children and, in the end, it is the future of Spain as a country. We are also concerned about an issue reflected in your report, which is that of housing. High rental prices - especially in cities like Madrid and Barcelona - are a matter of supply and demand. The offer of rental flats has to be expanded to lower these prices. We believe that the solution is not to limit rental prices by law, as some propose, with a measure of Francoist eras. It must be that some, of all mention Franco, are also copying his measurements. Another problem relating to housing is occupation, which affects the right of the owner to have his home available and the right of neighbours to live in peace and tranquillity. Citizens have presented initiatives that will no longer come forward because, as we say, this is over. Let's hope they get out in the next legislature. Finally, I would like to point out a very important issue. The truth is that the number of complaints by the Justice Administration is disheartening. It is the third area with the most complaints on the part of citizens. This demonstrates the lack of means that our justice has. Despite the will of all the staff - judges, prosecutors and the rest of the staff of the Administration of Justice, who do a commendable job -, they lack the means and also need to be an independent justice. So much so that we have come to something unusual in our country. On 22 May, there was a strike of judges and prosecutors supported by the seven associations of judges and prosecutors in Spain demanding improvements in work and independence. [[The lady]] As we say, the legislature is over. Let us hope that the next Government coming out of the new elections will respond more to the Ombudsman's recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u213	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u214	Thank you, President. Mr. People's Advocate, team of the People's Advocate, ladies and gentlemen, last year I was lucky enough to represent the Confederal Group of the United States in the presentation of the 2016 Ombudsman's report, which was Mrs. Becerril's last report. As the whole House knows, before being a defender of the people, Mrs Becerril had been a deputy, vice president of this Congress and mayor of Seville for the People's Party, and I asked her one thing that I think was quite obvious, and it was if she did not think that being a former senior member of the People's Party questioned her ability to be independent to be a defender of the people, an institution that, as you know, was expressly created to defend citizens from the abuses of the administrations. She never answered me, nor has the People's Party responded to me, but it is true that the facts show things, and this year, with Mr Marugán at the head of the People's Advocate's Office, it has been demonstrated to what extent it is important that the People's Advocate's Office be independent of the Party in the Government and to what extent it is important that the People's Party cannot parasitize and patriminate the institutions that are of all Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]] Perhaps because you are not suspected of favoring the People's Party, 25 000 dossiers have been submitted this year as compared to 17 000 the previous year. We can say that Mr Marugán has done a good job. Mrs Becerril took a week to send her team to the CIE in Aluche, a few kilometers from here, after the protests of October 17, 2016, and you in just three days sent to the CIE prison in Archidona a team to make a very critical report that human rights organizations have greatly appreciated, one of the most treacherous episodes of the absent Zoido, who ended up with the death of Mohamed Bouderbala. Nor did we hear a single word from the defender of the village, by Mrs Becerril, that up to a year's imprisonment for Cassandra Vera should be requested for putting a tweet with a joke about Carrero Blanco; however, we have heard you being quite harsh in your criticisms about putting rapper Valtonyc in jail for a song in which he called thieves the Bourbons. Tibia is the least we can say of the attitude that Mrs Becerril showed with the case of the gas warehouse in Doñana; however, we have seen how you said firmly that sometimes the administrations make a superficial analysis of the risks without entering into concrete and detailed, and we thank all those who want to leave a better country and land to our children and daughters. So, yes, we can say that Mr Marugán has done a better job, but we still think that citizenship in our country does not need any guardianship and that it would be much better if there could be a direct election of the Ombudsman's Office, because the citizens of our country know perfectly well who best defends their interests and that would in any case guarantee the independence of the Ombudsman's Office. This year's report - as the previous speakers have said - puts at the heart of the debate for the first time the brutal consequences of cuts in health, education, housing or social services, the impact that this has had on our people, and that seems to us to be a step forward. Thousands of people have come to you because of the unbearable delays in dependency; dependents and their families who have the assistance they have and who are not, however, collecting it, are in a real limbo for dependency. In the same vein, you said that it is possible that the freezing of pensions is unconstitutional. My group is convinced that it is unconstitutional and that freezing pensions or raising them ridiculously, as the People's Party has done, breaks one of the fundamental consensus of democracy. That is why we are glad that you have listened to the thousands of pensioners who have been on the streets in recent months. Furthermore, this report highlights an issue that we have denounced here many times, and that is that justice that does not have sufficient resources generates justice for the rich and justice for the poor. And you have not forgotten those 13,000 people who applied for citizenship between 2010 and 2013, five or eight years ago, and who still have no answer, have not told them that yes or no, they have no answer, one of the reasons why there are dozens of migrants who have been locked up in Barcelona for over a month. We encourage them to meet with them, because they will be well aware of the mechanisms that administrations are using to violate their rights. You have also criticized the asylum system, an uncoordinated, unequal system, which blocks the lives of thousands of people in the form of dossiers. We share your concern. It is true that we have to make regulations for the Asylum Act, but what we need most, Mr. People's Advocate, is a willingness to accept, and for that we need more than regulations, we need to have a little more heart and a little more commitment to human rights than this People's Party government. Having said that, I think you have done a good job and I will make some comments in a constructive spirit. This year, millions of people, millions of women have gone to the streets of our country to demand once and for all equal pay, to say that we want to live, to say that, back home, we want to be free and we don't want to be brave. That has resulted in you calling for compliance with the State Pact against Gender Violence, it is true, but to live up to the women of our country your institution has to be much more forceful. It is time that our country incorporated the Istanbul Convention into its legislation and it is urgent that all sex without consent be considered rape, no matter if you are the victim of La Manada, no matter whether you have a partner or whether you are engaged in prostitution. [[applause]] Two years after its entry into force, it seems to us that it is high time to know how it is undermining the democratic quality of our country because of the law. I know that you have asked the delegations of the Government for more information, because I am sure that you are aware, like us, that this law is undermining the democratic quality of our country. We ask you to inform us in detail, as soon as possible, on this matter. My group is extremely concerned about the human rights violations that are taking place in the detention centres for foreigners, but also in those reception centres on the southern border, which have become through acts in detention centres for foreigners, as well as the situation of children who migrate alone, who still do not have their rights protected as children who are and who continue to be subjected to infamous doll testing and are not adequately documented. It is also intolerable, and it seems to us that more emphasis should be placed on this, that Spain, which is condemned by the European Court of Human Rights, continues to carry out illegal land and maritime returns. I myself had to travel to Melilla to check, in some security cameras, that in a shipwreck where seven women died, they had been the victims of a hot sea return. This Government is in breach of human rights in Spain and it is time for urgent action. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to express my concern about the situation of prisoners. Not only is the right to health of prisoners being violated, but we are also experiencing uncontrolled isolation in both detentions and later in prisons. These situations have caused tragedies, such as that of Rachel, who in Brians I took her life after almost nine months in solitary confinement. We are confident that we will soon have the report of the mechanism for the prevention of torture and that we will never have to listen again in this rostrum, as Mrs Becerril said, that in a democratic State there can be no torture. There can be torture. I am sure that you, like us, are concerned that we do not have good mechanisms for the prevention and investigation of torture, something for which the European Court of Human Rights has already condemned us. We hope to have that report as soon as possible. I'm done, President, thank you. I thank you again for your efforts and I will make one last suggestion. I believe that this report could be titled a thousand and one reasons why the People's Party should be cast out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u215	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Galovart Carrera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u216	Good morning. We greet the ombudsperson, the deputy and his technical team. A few months ago we did not notice highlighting the work of the defender María Luisa Cava for having denounced the inhuman situation of Spanish prisoners abroad. Today, in this speech, I must highlight the performance of the defender Fernández Marugán, who, above conventions and conveniences, is taking the trouble of being useful to others. Useful, because your report is clear when using precise, unalambited language. Useful, because by improving its systematic the themes are found and you do not have to look for them between lines. Useful, because it makes a coherent account and its position is grounded and contextualized, regardless of whether or not it agrees with it. Useful, because it is not content with the defence being a mere record of complaints and ex officio proceedings and goes to the bottom of the issues, seeking the true voice of citizens. Useful, because the unjust is not indifferent to it, so it is not neutral and independent in its constitutional function. And useful, because it is intended to be an effective agent for the solution of our country's problems. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of time, of some of the issues already dealt with in the Commission, I turn to a nuclear issue, which is the report on the economic crisis and inequality added to the annual report before us. It is a document that makes recommendations not to fall back on the same mistakes made during the crisis to implement austerity policies that are not compensated for by adequate social policies, as they have been the cause of unprecedented inequality and severe impoverishment that has led to exclusion extending its perimeter beyond the traditional marginalized. All this on the basis that the economic recovery has not corrected the existing inequity. Read, for example, the reports of Caritas, the CEOE, etc. The aim of the recommendations is to oscillate the pendulum of economic policy from the concentration of wealth to the redistribution of wealth. For this reason, the report explains why things are so bad for six hundred thousand households without income, without unemployment protection and without any contributory benefit, and why - it also explains - after some years of recovery 70% of households do not perceive their effects. Ladies and gentlemen, in another matter, I shall refer briefly to the intervention of the spokesman for the People's Party in the Joint Committee, because it has caused us perplexity and we are concerned that its content will be repeated again in this plenary, and it is that by questioning the general competence and the broad capacities of the Ombudsman in the defence and guarantee of the rights provided for in Title I of the Constitution, Articles 1, 6, 28.2 and 30 of his Organic Law, the Spanish model of Ombudsman was called into question, returning to the Swedish Ombudsman of the last century. The purpose of this competitive questioning is to ensure that the human rights defender is only a public prosecutor, that he/she makes little noise and that he/she controls the administrations as little as possible and, moreover, that he/she is condescending with them. This reductionist conception omits that the human rights defenders have since made numerous reports facing the power. Thus, for example, with socialist governments, Ruiz Jiménez questioned prison policy; Gil Robles the mental health system and Cava, with popular and socialist governments, questioned the situation of the MENA and victims of trafficking violence. We could cite a long example of critical and uncomfortable relations with power, as is undoubtedly the report that is now before us. Before this report, for the sake of the citizens and because it is their duty, the first thing the Government would have to do, in our view, is to attend this plenary session to hear the reasons and solutions of the defender, and then, if necessary, to start working on them. [[Applauds]] But no, none of this has happened and the government, which is not and is not expected of it, forgets that worse than seeing the dark reality is not to see it, and, ladies and gentlemen, this is how it goes. By choosing the topic of basic public services, we say it goes wrong because these services are low, even though they are essential for a dignified life and for the exercise of fundamental rights; six thousand complaints in this regard, what you tell me! He pointed out that the main cause of the malfunction of these services was an alarming abandonment of economic investment. Remember that social spending in Spain is below the European average, 24% of its GDP, compared to 29% in Europe. This is the case in dependency; under-staffing prevents more than three hundred thousand recognized dependants from receiving the aid, causing forty thousand dependents to die last year without having received the benefits to which they were entitled. In justice, the lack of material and human means makes it slow and ineffective, not in vain the recent strike of judges and prosecutors. Minister of Justice absent, what justice is this that is forced to bring to trial with two or three years' delay? What justice is it that renders judgment so late that there is no longer an object to resolve? Clearly, the EUR 1774 million earmarked for justice in the State's General Budgets is insufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, social spending, we repeat, is scarce: there are 4,600,000 people who cannot keep the house warm. The waiting list is endless, the pharmaceutical copayo is based on care for the process and not on comprehensive care for the patient, and in education public investment reaches historical minimums; evictions and difficulties in access and temporary work persist. Furthermore, the commitments of the Pact against Macho Violence remain unfulfilled, with the delay in the processing of nationality files: 400 000 affected. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go on. Thank you, but I repeat that the dark reality that the government party does not want to see or listen to is there, on the street, and we all know it. That is why, on many issues and because corruption is coming out of the sewers, tomorrow we will present a motion of censure to the People's Party Government. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u217	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking the ombudsperson in office for his appearance to present last year's report. You know, Mr Fernández-Marugán, that you are always welcome in this House. From this report I would like to highlight two facts which, in my opinion, are very significant. Firstly, the number of complaints writings was 24,976, it is true, higher than in 2016, but far, Mrs Galovart, of the 35 000 complaints writings that were received in 2010 when the disaster was looming at the doors of Spain. [[applause]] What does that mean? It means that either administrations now work better or Spain goes better or both things at once. What cannot be said with rigor is that things are worse. Well, we've already seen that you can say; now, that is, with no credibility. [[Applauds]] Secondly, the effectiveness of the Ombudsman is improving; for example, the recommendations accepted by the administrations have been increased by 125 % or the average waiting time has been reduced by almost 20 days. As for the content of the complaints, there is not much new: they refer to the field of justice; the economic field; the environmental field; the public service; the functioning of public services; or asylum issues, where it is certainly revealing - speaking of human rights - that a third of last year's asylum applications correspond to Venezuelan citizens, which demonstrates the serious situation in that country under the yoke of the Chavista regime. [[Applauds]] There has been talk of repression and democratic deficit in Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, no democratic deficit, no political prisoners, no political prisoners, no political prisoners. There are people incarcerated by a decision of the courts for having committed criminal acts; indeed, with criminal types of the 1995 Penal Code which was approved, without reservation and with enthusiasm, by the Lords of Convergence i Unió, so if you want to ask someone to account, you know who to address. [[Applauds]] And one more thing. They have stated in this rostrum that we are imposing the law above democracy. But what do you mean by democracy? A democracy works when the law is enforced, not when it is renounced. If someone has committed an illegal act, they will always have to bear the consequences that result from such non-compliance, always. That is democracy and the rule of law. [[Applauds]] Returning to the report, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most controversial paragraphs is the annex entitled Economic Crisis and Inequality. You yourself, Mr Fernández Marugán, have recognized it. It is true that the Ombudsman, by virtue of his functions, can never be an institution neither comfortable nor friendly for the Government nor for the public administrations and must always operate with full autonomy, but what he must never do, despite being that critical conscience of society, is to correct the decisions or laws adopted by these General Courts, and that is to a large extent what has been done through this report of economic crisis and inequality. If you think that some of the decisions of this Parliament, some of these laws that are passed in these General Courts, are injuring some fundamental right, you have the prerogative to go to the Constitutional Court, but what should not be done is to go up to this rostrum neither to present alternative budgets nor to criticize the Government. For that there is not the figure of the defender of the people, with all respect. [[Applauds]] This report seeks to establish the idea that there was a serious economic crisis that came from outside and that the policies of the People's Party have been to increase inequality and poverty in Spain, and that is not the case. There was an economic crisis, yes, but aggravated by socialist policies, which turned an international financial crisis into a crisis of spending and an employment crisis that put Spain on the brink of ruin and rescue and put 3.5 million Spaniards unemployed. That's the reality. [[Applauds]] That's why Spain was the OECD country that grew the most in inequality between 2007 and 2011 in the last legislature you ruled. You know why? Because unemployment is the biggest source of inequality and accounts for 80% of it. Therefore, lessons in this area, ladies and gentlemen, the just. That the wage gap can be narrowed, that the quality of employment can be improved or that the timing can be reduced? Of course, and that is exactly what we are doing, because don't forget that since 2007 the rate of temporality has been reduced by five points, from 32% of that time to less than 27%, and we must continue along that line. I thank you, Mr Fernández Marugán, for at least acknowledging in your report that we have emerged from the recession and the crisis. Not everyone says it, he's heard a few speeches this morning. This has been achieved with great effort by the Spanish, but it has also been achieved not despite the policies of austerity, deficit reduction or budgetary balance, as you say, but on the contrary, thanks to them, because they have been a decisive factor in generating confidence, growth and employment, and I refer to the results. There are the growth figures and there are the employment figures, 500 000 jobs created every year, and don't forget, which usually forget, to distribute wealth first you have to create it, and that's what the People's Party government always does. [[Applauds]] That is why it is surprising - I am finishing - that some accuse the Government of doing an anti-social policy. But where were you last week in the budget debate? Where were you? Because in the budgets that is precisely what is done, to distribute wealth, to return the effort that the Spaniards have made in recent years, to return to the Spaniards in social measures the benefits of the recovery; in the budgets the pensions - some far above the CPI - are raised, the scholarships are raised, the minimum interprofessional wage is raised, the salaries are raised to the officials, the aids to the families are raised, the aids are raised to the dependency. There are €4230 million more in transfers to the autonomous communities to improve health, education and social policies, to recover and fight against gender-based violence, against that scourge of our society, and what are coming down are precisely taxes on middle and low incomes. That's what these budgets do. We already know that you do not like that we have adopted the most social budgets in the history of democracy, but what you cannot tell this Government is that with these policies inequality and poverty increase. On the contrary, because in Spain there are no more inequalities, what there are more opportunities, which are the ones that are offering the Spaniards, whether they like it or not, the government of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party. [[Prolonged applause.-A lady MP: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-30-CD180530.u219	Thank you all very much. Thank you very much to the human rights defender. The meeting rose. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
