ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u1	The meeting was resumed. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and with the unanimity of the spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 32, corresponding to the Convention on Personal Relations of the Child, done in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003, and a statement that Spain wishes to make. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u2	We now turn to the point relating to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2018 of 13 April 2018 amending the consolidated text of the Law on Intellectual Property, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/1996 of 12 April 1996, and incorporating into the Spanish legal order Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 and EU Directive 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare with you to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 2/2018, which amends the consolidated text of the Law on Intellectual Property to incorporate into the Spanish legal order Directives 26/2014 and 1564/2017 of the European Union. The transposition of both directives is the subject of the Royal Decree-Law adopted by the Council of Ministers on Friday, April 13, and published in the State Official Gazette the following day. The first Directive cited, 26/2014, or Directive on Management Entities and Multi-Territorial Licenses, originates from the Communication from the European Commission on a Single Market for Intellectual Property Rights, within the framework of the Digital Agenda for Europe and the 2020 Strategy, adopted in 2011. This communication sought to create a harmonised legal framework for the collective management of intellectual property rights while promoting consumer access to digital content in a cross-border environment. The delay in transposing that directive, which expired on 30 April 2016, was due to the impossibility of carrying it out - this is an amendment to the Intellectual Property Act - due to the existence of a functioning Government. As a result of this delay, the European Commission initiated a infringement procedure against the Kingdom of Spain before the Court of Justice of the European Union on 6 December, a procedure which could lead to a conviction or economic sanction of up to EUR 123 928 per day from the date of the judgment. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u4	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u5	The Government has approved this royal decree-law, which today we submit to the validation of this House in order to avoid that possibility. It is also consistent with the Government's action plan to ensure the transposition of directives at risk of fines throughout 2018, agreed by the Council of Ministers on 9 February. Directive 26/2014 has a dual objective. Firstly, to establish a legal framework for the collective management of intellectual property rights within the European Union, with the aim of improving the efficiency, accuracy and transparency of the service provided by management entities, and the accountability of service providers and consumers. Secondly, this directive aims to amend the system of licensing of musical works to end the difficulties faced by providers of online music services when they wish to acquire aggregated repertoire licences for the territory of several Member States. The current fragmentation of the internal market in these services hinders the dissemination and also the remuneration of musical works to the authors. The Culture 2020 Plan designed in this ministry includes in its strategy the introduction into the Spanish legal system of these so-called multi-territorial licenses. I will summarise the main developments that European Directive 26/2014, transposed by this royal decree-law, will introduce in our legal system, and in particular in the Law on Intellectual Property. First, a new regulatory framework for collective intellectual property rights management entities. Managing entities are those that facilitate negotiation for users to obtain authorization for the use of cultural works. On the other hand, they ensure that the creator of these works covers for their use. These authorisations and charges would be unthinkable through simple individual action or negotiation. Similarly, these management entities play an important role in protecting cultural diversity by allowing access to the market for those local or less popular cultural repertoires that do not enjoy the same commercial success as others. This royal decree-law incorporates forecasts derived from Directive 26/2014, aimed at addressing the problems identified in the operation of management entities throughout the European Union. In particular, the transparency obligations of collective management entities are increased. These new obligations strengthen the position of rightholders in the monitoring and control of entities and also reduce their management costs. I will highlight, among other things, the establishment of an internal control body for management entities at the service of partners, who will be able to exercise constant control over their governing and representation bodies in crucial tasks, such as monitoring the implementation of the budget or distributing the collection to intellectual property rights holders. The obligation to draw up an annual transparency report to facilitate such internal control is also introduced. I would like to point out that at this point the reform introduced by the Government goes beyond what is required by the text of the directive itself, particularly for those management bodies with a collection of more than EUR 100 million per year, which will be required to appoint independent third parties with relevant professional expertise as members of that supervisory body. Improvements in revenue collection, management and distribution are also noteworthy. The distribution and payment of the collected rights shall take place within a maximum period of nine months, keeping the amounts collected separately from any other assets held by the institution. Secondly, I would like to refer to the introduction of new operators in the intellectual property rights market. With the new regulation we aim to ensure that intellectual property rights holders benefit fully from the internal market when those rights are managed collectively. The figures for this internal market are very relevant. In 2015 alone, management entities raised €356.5 million. That amount is increasing year after year. The number of individuals who can operate in the market for collective management of property rights is also increased. At present there are eight collective management entities by establishment of Spain authorized to operate by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport. This Royal Decree-Law recognises the possibility of providing services in Spain to management entities established in other States and independent management operators, who have so far benefited from a legal gap for which they should not satisfy the control regime required of other operators. This royal decree-law will fill that gap and resolve this issue. Both must comply with strict rules, which, in our view, favour equal conditions of competition. We are therefore confident that the introduction of a higher degree of competition will generate greater efficiency in the management of rights and thus also greater profits. Thirdly, the regulation of multi-territorial licences for rights in musical works for online use. These are authorizations that allow an online music service provider to exploit its rights to reproduce and use a musical work throughout the European Union. This multi-territorial authorisation model, regulated by Directive 26/2014, is based on the granting of an authorisation with a pan-European territorial scope, limited to the rights of the direct repertoire of a management entity specifically mandated for this type of multi-territorial and mono-repertory licences. Such authorisations shall be granted by those management entities which have sufficient capacity to process electronically the data necessary to identify the repertoire and control its authorisation, to invoicing users, to collect the rights and to pay the holders of the rights. Such entities shall be required to represent other management entities without sufficient capacity to perform such tasks. This will facilitate the voluntary aggregation of musical repertoires and rights. The applicable tariff regime is subject to the conditions laid down in the Directive: that they are general, simple, clear and reasonable tariffs and that they meet the economic value of the use of negotiated rights, the use of works and the economic value of the service provided by the managing body. These multi-territorial licences will have positive effects for rightholders, who will optimize their income; for users and providers of online music services, who will have better access to licences throughout the European Union; and for consumers, who will enjoy a wider variety of products at European level. Since the date of entry into force of this royal decree-law all management entities will have one year to adapt their statutes to this new regulation, except those with a collection of more than 100 million euros per year, which will have three months. This adequacy will be verified and approved by the ministry. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this regulatory update of Spanish management entities adapts them to the European Union's regulatory framework, and thus helps to stimulate the creation and production of new cultural content by protecting the Spanish cultural repertoire, a very important part of our heritage. The Royal Decree-Law transposes a second directive, Directive 1564/2017, also known as the Marrakech Directive, on certain permitted uses of certain works and other services protected by copyright and related rights in favour of blind persons, with visual disabilities or other difficulties in accessing printed texts. Pursuant to the aforementioned Treaty of Marrakech of 27 June 2013, the obligations of which are embodied in this European Directive of 2017, blind or visually impaired persons may access works protected by intellectual property rights without the authorisation of the holder of those rights. Although the regulation of these assumptions, of the assumptions contained in our Intellectual Property Act since 2006, already have a very broad perspective, and they also apply to any type of disability, it is necessary to amend the law to bring it into line with the content of this directive and to ensure that this limit applies to rights in the case of intra-Community traffic in works in accessible format, either in the Braille system or by adapting to the audio-book format. This exemption is therefore in line with the Marrakesh Treaty and also with the postulates contained in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This directive should be transposed before 11 October 2018, so we are on time, but there was no better opportunity than this royal decree-law to expand the rights of the group of people with visual disabilities and to keep Spain at the head of the European Union states that are making the most progress in defending their rights. Along with the transposition of both directives, the Government has sought to use the final provisions of this royal decree-law to solve some specific problem. We include an amendment to Act No. 16/1985, of the Spanish Historical Heritage, in order to clarify the export regime granted by the State Administration to those movable property whose importation has been made legally and is duly documented. The new wording clarifies the possibility that the owners of these goods may request successive extensions, provided that they meet the requirements and after hearing the opinion of the board for the assessment, qualification and export of goods of the Spanish historical heritage. We also include the amendment of Law 10/2015 of 26 May for the protection of intangible cultural heritage, authorizing the Government to prepare before 31 December 2019 a consolidated text integrating, duly regularized, Law 16/1985 of 25 June of the Spanish Historical Heritage, the aforementioned Law 10/2015, as well as other provisions on the protection of historical heritage contained in rules of law. Finally, the fifth additional provision of this Royal Decree-Law regulates the common rules applicable to contracts for works and services concluded by the National Institute of Performing Arts and Music, in accordance with the regulation of the special employment relationship of artists in public performances. [[Rumors]] The maximum duration of these contracts, set at three years, as required by the Workers' Statute, is incompatible with the duration of the artistic projects to which these contracts relate. It is therefore appropriate to lay down specific rules allowing the duration of contracts to be adjusted to...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u7	It is therefore appropriate, I repeat, to establish a specific regulation allowing the duration of contracts to be adapted to that of the artistic projects to which they are linked. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the process of drafting the text, for the sake of the transparency so valued by this Government, all the actors concerned have participated, from management entities to users, the National Organization of Blinds, five ministries - Economy, Energy, Justice, Health and Finance - and other specialized bodies, including the opinion of the Council of State and the consultation of the autonomous communities that have competence in this matter. We have also collected proposals made by parliamentary groups, and we are open to maximum collaboration during the subsequent processing of this royal decree-law as a bill, which we support. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we all share the same interest in providing our creators with the best legal framework. Spanish cultural industries are synonymous with wealth creation and jobs. They are highly competitive industries within and outside our borders. Culture is, as I have said many times, the soul of the nation, which gives us desire and joy to live. To reach an agreement today to validate this royal decree-law is synonymous with the will to commit to the defense of the Spanish artistic talent, and it is worth it, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 2/2018. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u8	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u9	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning. The Government, through its Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, requests the House to validate a real-decree law which is essential to adopt in order to meet the deadlines for the transposition of European directives into Spanish legislation on an extremely important and complex matter, such as intellectual property. My vote in favour will not be exempt from the memory of the parliamentary process that, throughout 2014, amended the consolidated text of the Intellectual Property Act. A procedure which has rejected virtually all the opposition's amendments, but some, precisely now, will have to be implemented as a result of the fact that the European directive, unlike the existing Spanish law, addresses important substantive issues that have arisen with the enormous changes generated by digital society since the mid-1990s. I myself then called from the Senate rostrum the legislative amendment timorata and confused, and I considered lost the great opportunity to move forward on an issue that continues to occupy and increasingly preoccupied our society with the protection of intellectual rights. Now the joint application of several European directives in an extraordinary and urgent way to avoid sanctions for prolonged non-compliance with deadlines does allow us to incorporate into our legal system new rules that clarify the content of the Law on Intellectual Property. The lack of time makes it impossible to analyse everything; but I would like to highlight the division into seven chapters of collective management of the rights recognized in the law, which imposes a European touch endorsed by its use in many other Member States, and polished by different judgments of the High Court of Justice of the European Union. The new regulation clarifies important issues such as the distribution, payment and limitation of duties, which had been underlined by the opposition at all times. Another unique issue is the harmonisation which applies the transposition of directives on so-called management entities and which covers a set of large areas, as the text that we are discussing and which Mr Méndez de Vigo has explained specifies. In short, this transposition, in addition to being forced by our membership of the European Union, will be of great use for a regulatory framework which, we recognise, is very complex and which, therefore, both its content and its dimensions, will not avoid the challenges that the advancement of technology will pose in the future. But I believe that with this real-decree law one takes a necessary step to dispose of the best Intellectual Property Law at this time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the interim government that we suffer continues to be placed in the vice of bad students, which is always doing homework late and bad, and now, for the umpteenth time, they are bringing us here to agonizely validate a decree-law with very late transposition deadlines. And this attitude contrasts with the systematic obstruction that we are living in parliamentary work with the excessive use of vetoes on seemingly budgetary issues; with the obstruction that this Government systematically makes to the task of the autonomous communities that do their duties; but in the end it turns out that this Legislative for what they want is so that we do not get fines from Europe and we validate the work that you have not done when you were due. Look, this decree-law is also a missed opportunity to get into the bottom of the issue that must be addressed, which is to see how we are going to deal with the situation of creators, who are the real subject to be protected in this matter, in intellectual property, and whether we are going to use the resources of digital technologies to move forward, because management entities have so far been the least bad mechanism for collecting rights, but we should now look at situations in which the self-management of their rights by creators is made possible, and not continue in the excess of the prerogatives that management entities have had. In Compromís we will not once again put sticks on the wheels. We shall abstain in the vote. We are going to let the group that supports this Government with its votes take it forward. But we are waiting for amendments, because there is much to be played, for example, by the restrictive role reserved for the autonomous communities in Article 155 in the supervision and inspection of management entities, or also by the exorbitant right of retention granted by Article 158 to management entities vis-à-vis holders in cases of revocation, or by the inconcrete regulation of the obligations arising for the social function entities which they are required to fulfil, as set out in Article 178, or that evanescent reference in Article 176 to the fact that the discounts applied by the entities must be reasonable. These and other issues that are of real interest in improving the protection of creators, we hope to see them in the process of amendments. In any case, I insist, please, do your homework on time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u13	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, minister. I say to you that my group's vote will be favourable and I shall comment on why. Firstly, because we share the meaning of what is incorporated into Spanish legislation by the transposition of these European directives. We are in favour of improving the regulation of management entities, we are in favour of regulating the introduction of independent management operators, and we are of course in favour of regulating multi-territorial licences. Secondly, we will vote in favour because it is inevitable that these European directives are incorporated into Spanish legislation. What do we disagree about - and in that we would like you to take it into account -? It's in shape, minister. Minister... Minister; Minister; Minister... [[The Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Méndez de Vigo and Montojo, has a conversation with another lordship]] [[The Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Méndez de Vigo and Montojo: Forgiveness]] No, I'd miss more. It's just weird to talk to him if he doesn't look at me. I told him that we are going to vote in favour of the transposition, but that we disagree in the form. That is why I wanted to tell you, because this is not the first time that your Government and your ministry have used rapid channels to do things that should have been done long ago. I don't know if you are the official procrastinator of the kingdom or something worse, but you seem more and more like a minister of the government of Mariano Rajoy, who as you know is expert in not solving problems or in doing so late or by judicial means. But despite that, despite that failure in form, we are going to vote in favour of transposition because it could not be otherwise, among other things for our commitment to Europe which is indeed real, effective and immutable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u14	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, my parliamentary group has already made this known: it will vote in favour of this validation, among other things because from the beginning we believed that what is now incorporated is what should have been incorporated at the time, and that is what the Intellectual Property Act should have raised. One colleague has said this: almost all of the opposition's amendments were rejected there in 2014, if I am not mistaken, and today time is giving reason and Europe is giving reason to some issues raised by the opposition. It has fortunately been patched up with some issues that were previously denied by the Government, and on which there has subsequently been no other remedy than to rectify because Europe has demanded it. The explanation you gave that this directive could not be applied previously because there was no government, man... I believe that if duties had been done in time and things otherwise this would already be applied. However, we believe that these European directives should already be incorporated into Spanish legislation and that they should be implemented. As your own title indicates, this law is intended to amend the current Intellectual Property Act and incorporates the European directive you have cited. Regardless of whether the draft envisages certain changes of relevance, including the addition to the text of a new article 31b - which you have commented on - of accessibility for persons with disabilities, in the central part, we also consider that the parties you have indicated - which I would say are the positive ones -, such as the one referring to management entities, with which we fully agree, we believe that it is time for this issue to be taken more seriously than has been done so far, since we believe that it has a number of omissions. I will look at those omissions and hope that these omissions can be corrected at the amendment stage. The draft proposes a regulation in which references to the powers of the Autonomous Communities in the field of intellectual property are almost non-existent or at least testimonyal, where in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, for example, we have competence to enforce State legislation in this field. In addition, together with this competence by means of Royal Decree 896/2011 of 24 June on the extension of the services of the General Administration of the State transferred to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi by Royal Decree 3069/1980 of 28 September on the enforcement of intellectual property legislation, certain functions and services in this field have been transferred to the Autonomous Community, some of which, for example, are subject to regulation in the project, without the existence of this autonomous competitive reality being present in the framework of the norm. It is not a question of questioning the competence of the State over intellectual property legislation - which is Article 149.1.9a of the Spanish Constitution - but of seeing that in this material field of action the autonomous communities, such as the Basque one, have certain competences that the proposed text omits significantly. That is why my group will be putting forward a number of amendments which will already be relevant to this matter, to incorporate into this royal decree the powers of the autonomous communities, as well as those of the co-official languages in those areas in which they are, such as the Basque Autonomous Community, into the draft law. There is also the competence and capacity for arbitration in situations in which it must be given, since, as I have indicated, we are also competent in this matter. I'm not going to go any longer. I would just like to say that we already see this incorporation as necessary; it has had to be through this system, but in any case we hope that at the stage of amendments we can correct these errors or loopholes that this royal decree has. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today, and on discount time, as usual, the Government is bringing to plenary a royal decree-law to amend our intellectual property law with the aim of transposing a European directive. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u19	We are strongly drawn to the attention that in the explanatory statement of the decree-law the Government says - and I read - 'Despite its importance, the regulation of management entities has been alien to the work of the European legislator until the adoption of Directive 2014/26/EU'. I say that it draws our attention, because it has been the government itself that, while being clear about the crucial importance of this matter, it has taken four years to process this directive that could have been processed since 2014. The deadline for transposition expired on April 10, 2016 and you took it to the Council of Ministers on April 13, 2018. They arrive two years late, 733 days after the deadline. You refer to the fact that the Government was in office. The Government was in office, but it's been a year and a half since we've had a Government. I believe that year and a half is enough time to have taken this bull by the horns, but we are all here with good will saving the furniture by the usual laxity that is the sign of identity of the government of Mariano Rajoy. I have already told you that we are going to allow validation to go ahead in order to avoid major evils, because, as the Minister himself acknowledged, an economic penalty was provided for punishing this delay. [[Rumors]] However, they also anticipate that there are areas that are likely to improve and that will have to be addressed through amendments. After reviewing the text presented to us, we believe that a process of adaptation to the Spanish reality and to the specific problems of our creators and entities is essential. Getting to the bottom of the matter, this royal decree-law comes to improve six areas of the Spanish legal order in relation to intellectual property. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u20	Quiet, please. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u21	These are: representation of holders of intellectual property rights and membership of a management entity, their internal organisation, management of collection by rights, reciprocity agreements, licensing, transparency and information obligations and multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use in the internal market. Being citizens very much in agreement, as it could not otherwise be, with the objectives pursued by the directive, we have already said that this royal decree has particular areas of improvement that we must face throughout the legislative process. To mention some of the changes that we believe this text needs, I would say, for example, that we must seek greater efficiency in all matters relating to the security of transactions between the actors in the sector. It is also essential that the new control mechanisms imposed by the directive be in line with the nature of our agents and their particularities. I am going to something very specific: the monitoring body that sets up this directive. It is a very good idea and it is necessary, but it has to be designed in order to be able to exercise effective oversight over the management of entities. If you think only of a kind of decorative frame - and there is a danger that it will happen -, we will continue to have the same problems as so far. The monitoring body must be composed of persons acting completely independently, who have at their disposal all the information they need and who can always carry out real control. That must be guaranteed. Finally, we believe it is necessary to improve the irrevocable balance between the commitments made by intellectual property rights holders and the logical protection of their freedom for the exploitation of the rights of their works. I want to say that if it is going to make it easier for creators to move from one management entity to another - a step that is now very complicated - then we have to review the conditions under which this is going to happen. Let us always remember that ultimately the creator must never lose control over his work or the performances it generates. Any regulatory change must always be in the interest of the author, who can decide who is responsible for safeguarding his rights. This legislative process is faracious, complicated, very arduous and perhaps not the most interesting thing to hear today morning, but it has been waiting four years for this moment to see the light and it cannot make us lose sight that above all we want to protect the rights of creators. Finally, we are surprised by an additional provision which seeks to regulate the rules applicable to fixed-term contracts concluded by the National Institute of Performing Arts and Music, Inaem, in accordance with the regulation of the special employment relationship of artists. The problems related to the National Ballet and the National Dance Company have been a continuous tide for too long. In fact, the whole Inaem lives on that tide and its production units see how their problems multiply and their ability to act is strained. The last chapter is this fifth additional provision and the transitional provision that follows it. They are embedded without any sense in the midst of a royal decree with which they have absolutely nothing to do and one cannot help but wonder why this is done now and why it is done so. It gives the impression that this has been done in a somewhat hasty way. You say you've counted on the opinion of the sector. We have met with representatives of the dancers and I can tell them that they are not happy with this wording. We believe that the dancers deserve to be heard and, above all, to be taken into account, because in the end we are talking about their future work. I ask you to reconsider this text, to take into account those directly affected and to move towards a better wording. It is time to show - I think we are all in tune - respect for professionals who work in very difficult conditions and who have arrived where they are based on effort, talent and sacrifice. If the processing of this text - which seems to us to be better - is interrupted today, the European Union will impose on us the corresponding fine with which the slowness of governments is usually punished, so for the good of all once again - and there are several - we will help the Government to avoid the harms of what in terms of management of culture we can start to call the slab of its own inheritance received, but we will ask that the validation of this decree be done as a bill to have the opportunity to amend everything that does not convince us. There is a vast space for improvement and there we will be, with effort and responsibility, to do the remaining work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u22	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Maura Zorita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a government decree amending the Intellectual Property Act in order to adapt two European directives for 2017 and 2014, respectively, which is already the case. I sincerely say - and I honestly think so - that nothing would happen to be late and under threat of a fine if these years had been used to address the situation of collective management and SGAE in particular, on the one hand, and to think deeply about the Spanish legislative paradigm in the area of intellectual property, on the other, and yet it has not been done. I can understand that we're late, even if I'm not convinced of your excuses, but all I'm worried about is that we're not well prepared. Just as it has already happened in this House with the private copying decree, I will base my intervention on a very simple idea. It is not that the Government lacks the capacity for anticipation and foresight in this area, which is also that it is active in a declining paradigm that is unable to identify either the strategic importance of collective management in the expanded digital field or to understand the potential of intellectual property as a tool for protection and social advancement. For this reason, when the time comes to change laws, and in this case with the relative little room for action left by a European directive, the opportunity to move forward, to protect and to improve the living conditions of so many people is lost. Spanish legislation therefore needs a paradigm shift, not reforms that solve a problem while generating two. For example, José María Lasalle recently said that the challenge of our time in intellectual property - that is to say - is the elaboration of a theory of data ownership. I sincerely disagree, and neither do my group, the challenge is whether to build standards and practices that guarantee the rights of users and the sustainability of life and cultural work, or what is the same, we must ensure that drawing, composing, designing, writing, editing, distributing, exhibiting, collapsing or archiving can be activities and/or professions that live decently and with rights throughout the value chain, from the first to the last link. Many biographies of the 21st century will be extracted from Facebook states; some of the books of the present are already the product of social networks. These processes are complex, socially unequal and progressive, but we already witness the blurring of the borders between book and digital collage, between song and audio note, between newspaper and post entry, and between picture and 'instagram'. The challenge of intellectual property I understand is to help order when it is necessary, and only when it is necessary, this expanded field, and it is that the Intellectual Property Law can be a good tool if we turn it into part of an open and supportive social security system with the entire value chain of culture, social networks included. For example, intellectual property legislation can cooperate with other areas of standard production to balance the digital balance and combat the abuses of large companies that are behind the web business, that buy and sell data for unclear purposes, as we have recently seen with Facebook and Cambridge Analytics, and that become millionaires selling as data what can be read in our Facebook states, as well as the images and sounds that we produce and share on social networks. So far the paradigm, so far the absence of a paradigm shift that I usually complain about. I assume you're not in this reform of the Intellectual Property Act. Having said that, I am going to go to the medium and small letter of the question before us today. First, this reform could have served to eliminate article 71, which for decades has been harming musical authors and favoring publishing companies linked to major record companies. The Government did not want to do so - it received the proposal personally from me - and I still do not know its reasons to date. Nor do we accept the fifth additional provision or the single transitional provision of the decree. They have nothing to do with European directives, of course. They affect very sensitive recruitment issues on the part of Inaem in a context in which the conflict with the workers of the Teatro de la Zarzuela remains open and at a time when the demands of the workers, dancers and dancers, the National Dance Company and the National Ballet of Spain are of common sense, so that it is doubly inappropriate in time and in way to introduce legislative changes in this way. We want this decree to be dealt with as a bill, above all to abolish these two provisions, additional fifth and transitional single. What the courts have been saying to Inaem is that he has to pay and hire his workers in stable conditions. No dancer, as you imagine, Minister, wants to be an official, because no one can dance at that level until sixty-five or sixty-seven years, and who knows if even further. What they want is for them to be hired as appropriate to the levels of demand and commitment that their activity requires. Justice has given them the reason twenty-two times and there are thirteen final sentences. In this, in the matter of hiring the Inaem and, in particular, the Ballet Nacional de España and the Compañía Nacional de Danza, it is not a question of changing the law, it is a question, Mr Méndez de Vigo, of complying with the sentences, and nothing else. On the bright side - I am finishing - we share some of the measures to control the operation of management entities, in particular those that collect more than EUR 100 million, i.e. SGAE. In any case, they are measures that can be improved, and that is what the parliamentary procedure is for, and we will see each other there. It is important to claim collective management at a time when bad practices and the internal situation of SGAE are harming management entities that work perfectly and do their duties very well. That is an issue that needs to be addressed with absolute seriousness. We will also vote in favour of this decree being treated as a bill, even if we do not like the content, because we want the parliamentary procedure to be, in general, fruitful and cooperative. It's in effect. There are important aspects that have been left out and important aspects that are wrongly resolved. I will list just three - I will be very brief, President - and I will finish. First, the Supreme has fallen into the order of general tariffs methodology and this reform can allow us to address this issue with more guarantees and better solutions. The problem of the library loan needs to be addressed, and we agree with all groups on that. Finally, Article 158(5) should be amended. It was said earlier by the spokesman for Citizens that it is extremely difficult for a rights holder to change the management entity - it is - and this has historically favored SGAE with respect to Adama. It cannot be tolerated that there is an article, in this case paragraph 158, fifth, which favours those who do the worst and harms those who do the best. These are just some of the issues on which the parliamentary groups have already been working. I can only say that this is not a good decree, which we do not like, but we need a good parliamentary, cooperative and fruitful procedure, in which we will see each other and to which we will bring all the proposals we have and in which - I insist - we are already working with the rest of the groups. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u24	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Torres Mora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Republican tradition advises that when a law or institution has long resisted the challenge of time, they should be carefully amended. [[The lady]] Sometimes, however, the main problem for the survival of the institutions is that, precisely because they have fulfilled the mission for which they were created, they have forgotten the reasons for their creation. And when human beings forget the purpose that led us to do a task, we immediately neglect it and finally abandon it. It is therefore important to remember, now that we legislate on collective management entities, the circumstances of their creation. Today, not only any of us who enjoy and spiritually enrich ourselves with the creations of culture, but even many artists and creators have forgotten the reasons why Victor Hugo together with Balzac, George Sand or Alejando Dumas father created the first management entity in France in 1838, although there was already some precedent in the 18th century. No one remembers anymore, except the specialized historians, who was the entrepreneur - today we would call him cultural entrepreneur - Florencio Fiscowich and Díaz de Antoñana and Valverde, but there was a time, at the end of the 19th century, when this gentleman had the culture of our country in his hands and, even more, in his pockets, thanks to the fact that the law allowed him to buy perpetually the rights to his present and future works from our most prominent authors and musicians. In 19th century Spain a single entrepreneur could control entire seasons of the theaters of Madrid and provinces, in which only the works belonging to him were represented. This management model did not benefit the authors, culture or Spanish society. And from the struggle of the Spanish authors against that monopoly arose the Society of Authors of Spain in 1899, which inaugurated collective management in Spain. And he did so with the impulse of a musician, Ruperto Chapí, and of a journalist and writer, the socialist Sinesio Delgado, who on 23 June of that year, in 1899, published a letter in El Socialista in which he announced the signing before the notary of the statutes of the Spanish Society of Authors, according to which said Sinesio Delgado, I open quotes: 'The workers of the theatre will manage themselves, without the smallest intervention of the capital'. I close quotes. Today in Spain we have eight entities of collective management of the rights of creators and artists that protect their interests and also those of our culture. Namely: SGAE, Cedro, Vegap, DAMA, AIE, Aisge, Agedi and Egeda. All rights are owned by rightholders and all rights holders are not for profit. Frankly, after several legislatures playing the spokesman of culture of the Socialist Group I must say that, beyond what may happen in any particular case that concerns us all and with the imperfections of any human work, the role of these entities is fundamental both for their partners and for our culture. If we suspect any of us immediately of who in the face of the mistakes of a democratic government takes advantage of to attack democracy as a form of government, we must also suspect those who in the face of the failures of a collective management entity take advantage of to attack the collective management system of creators. [[Applauds]] We must throw the dirty water as soon as there is, as soon as it appears, but it would be a huge mistake, as some want either for naivety or for a not naive interest, to throw the child with the dirty water. Because with the excuse of a few very reprehensible cases, these entities are the object of an unfair, hard and prolonged attack, whose real objective is to expropriate the creators and artists of property rights over their works and return them to the structural condition they had in feudalism or Manisterian capitalism; all this in the name of a technological utopia, which is a true social dystopia. This is a conclusion that anyone can come to without seeing any chapter of Black Mirror, although I recommend it. In this context, ideologically adversarial to collective management, in which the European Parliament and the national parliaments are legislating a reform that is undoubtedly necessary, but on which I confess my concern, the appearance of the so-called independent management operators, which, unlike the entities, are not owned by artists and creators and are for profit, should put us on notice, lest we meet our creators and our culture under the guise of a gentleman like Florencio Fiscowich. In this regard, we must also be careful to ensure that the new control body required by the European directive is useful for the governance of these entities and not an expensive and dysfunctional instrument for the placement of sacred cows and other members of that abundant ex-fauna which the hat did not touch in the Tomb. The models of collective management are perfectly suitable for today's society and represent a social benefit, especially in the case of the digital environment. That is why it is essential that we protect collective management as a guarantee mechanism for authors and prevent it from disappearing absorbed within a confused market in which digital platforms - which offer the management of rights without being owned by the owners and without verifying this ownership or the compliance of the users with the licenses - make their August. Thus, in order to correct any defects in the internal functioning or the economic and social function of the management entities, it is better to promote their internal democracy and to put them under better control and protection of the law than to replace them with a market and technology that will hardly satisfy the social function of protection and access to culture, something that we do require of the collective management entities and of which is a very good example - as has been mentioned here - the compliance of the Marrakesh Treaty to facilitate access to the books of blind persons, which includes the actual decree that the Government brings today for their validation. [[applause]] The Socialists believe - and I conclude with this - that there are very important things to improve in the real decree presented by the Government, but that it is a basis for starting work. However, like most opposition groups, the Socialists are going to abstain in the validation vote and we will vote in favour of its processing as a bill precisely in order to amend what does not convince us. And if there is one thing that does not convince us at all, it is that the attempt has been made to regulate the employment relations of the National Ballet in the transposition of a European directive on intellectual property rights. It is not the subject of this debate, Minister, but something is wrong with the Inaem and this is another example. Workers and their trade union representatives need to be heard. I belong to a family of manual workers and I assure you that the workers do not go on strike for sport, something serious is failing in this matter. I'm not telling you to waste a minute looking for the guilty, but to use it for solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres Mora. Mr Del Río Sanz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u27	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the validation of a real decree which the Government of Spain is bringing for the transposition of two Community directives. The Group of the European People's Party believes that it is a good decree, in addition to the fact that Community directives must be transposed. What is reflected in it, in the European part, and in what improves the European part, which has been enriched by the Spanish Government itself, is a good solution to complement and improve the policies that are being carried out in order to promote culture in our country and, above all, to promote and protect cultural creators in our country. It can be said that the plumbing of culture is being improved; it is something not visible, it may seem faracious, but it is something fundamental if we want to continue to have a culture that is one of the essential elements of the nation, which is also an industry and one of the banners of the brand Spain. I have heard some criticism about the processing of this royal decree, but it has not been the fault of the Government, because there has been a Government in office for a time and a Government in office could not process the decree-law, and the fact that the Government was in office has not been the responsibility of the People's Party, which was the first party concerned and the one that has done most to ensure that there was a Government as soon as possible. Once the Government has been formed, this takes time to process. Whoever has read the decree-law will have seen all the reports and memoirs that accompany it. Therefore, you cannot be blamed at all for any delay in the processing. As I pointed out, we are talking about something that, although not very visible, is absolutely fundamental for the protection of the rights of creators and has to do with the improvement in the management of a nuclear element, which are the management entities... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u29	Thank you. ... that facilitate negotiation for users to obtain authorization for the use of cultural works and that ensure nothing more and nothing less than the creator of these works covers for their use. The People's Party has no concerns about the European directive. I am surprised by what some dear spokesman has said about the concern of this European directive. Not to us; moreover, we fully share it. All that is to improve transparency and effectiveness in nothing more and nothing less than the rights of creators seems extraordinary to us. That does not mean that the management of all management entities is called into question. It is true that there are problems, and very serious ones, in some, but the rest are managing it extraordinarily well, and what is at stake is to improve those management mechanisms. The control and governance of these intellectual property rights management entities will be strengthened and some situations that have occurred and that we do not like will be avoided. It contributes to the creation and production of new cultural content, protects the Spanish cultural repertoire and, as has already been pointed out, expands, in compliance with the so-called Marrakesh Directive, the rights of the collective of persons with visual disabilities and places Spain at the head of the States of the European Union that are making the most progress in defending their rights. Mention has also been made that some of the additional provisions relate to the situation of a group of dancers from the National Dance Company. The Government of Spain, the ministry, aims to solve a problem that exists. I don't know if your lordships know that these dancers' contract ends in August this year. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u31	If the rules on this matter are not changed, these dancers, once they have completed their contract of work and service according to the artistic project of the ballet, will be terminated. Precisely in the light of the rulings on the renewal of other contracts, the contract would have to be terminated, because something that the courts had said was wrong would be done wrong; then, either we left them on the street or we changed the legal rules so that the contract could be extended. If there is any parliamentary group that has a better solution than this one proposed by the Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Public Service, the People's Party would be delighted to see what it is, but this is the only solution that we think is viable. If there is another, as I say, in the parliamentary procedure of the law, we will be happy to hear it and vote in favour if that is the case, but we cannot do something that the courts have said since it is wrong. Moreover, with this we must do very little demagogy and it cannot be extended in time, because the contracts end on 31 August this year. By the way, the recruitment regime for these dancers has not changed it by the People's Party Government, which has been doing so for the past twenty-six years. Having said all this, from the People's Party we defend the rights of creators. We understand that this decree adopted today is extremely important to improve and protect creators in our country. Cultural industries, as the minister pointed out, are synonymous with creating wealth and jobs, they are an essential element of the Spanish brand, they are the soul of the nation, of the homeland. From the People's Party we are in favour of transparency and of effective management of management entities, which is what they are called, and we are in favour of continuing to support creators and culture. The Spanish want solutions and not sterile debates, and that is why we are in favour of this decree-law that the government is bringing today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Del Río Sanz. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 3/2018, OF 20 APRIL, AMENDING LAW 16/1987, OF 30 JULY, ON THE ORDER OF TERRITORIAL TRANSPORT, IN THE FIELD OF DRIVING VEHICLES. [[File number 130/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u33	We proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 3/2018 of 20 April, amending Act No. 16/1987 of 30 July 1987 on the organisation of land transport for the rental of vehicles with drivers. To present the royal decree, the Minister of Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u34	Very good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to submit to it the validation of Royal Decree-Law 3/2018, amending Law 16/1987 of 30 July on the organisation of land transport in the matter of the rental of vehicles by driver, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April. The main objective of this royal decree-law is, as you know, first of all to ensure the application throughout the national territory of a unique conditions for the provision of the activity of renting of vehicles with driver and, secondly, to allow the harmonious development and the balanced coexistence between the two modes of transport of passengers in passenger vehicles that contemplates our legal order: the taxi and the leasing of vehicles with driver. I would like to begin by briefly explaining the regulatory environment governing public transport in the field of passenger vehicles. As you know, European Union regulation leaves out of this scope passenger transport in this type of vehicle, so that its regulation is exclusively the responsibility of each Member State. In Spain, there are two modes of public transport for travellers in passenger vehicles: taxis, whose activity, in the urban sphere, is regulated by the autonomous and municipal legislation and, in the interurban, by the legislation of the State, and the leasing of vehicles with drivers, whose activity is exclusively regulated by the legislation of the State, which is applicable both in the urban sphere and in the interurban sphere. [[The lady]] The provision of a taxi service in urban areas is subject to the requirement to obtain a municipal licence and to compliance with the regulations approved by local authorities and, in some cases, by the autonomous communities within their respective competences. This legislation imposes in all cases a certain tariff regime and includes conditions relating to the characteristics of vehicles, stopping points, timetables, service schedules, etc. However, to provide this long-distance taxi service, it is necessary to have a VT class authorization, which is granted by the autonomous communities by delegation of the State. This authorization is issued only to those who are previously holders of a municipal urban transport licence, granted by the corresponding local authority, and qualify for transport throughout the national territory, regardless of destination, provided that the traveller has been taken in the municipality to which the taxi belongs. For its part, the rental of vehicles with driver is an activity whose performance is subject to the prior obtaining of an authorization of the class VTC, granted, as I said before, by the autonomous communities by delegation of the State. This authorisation permits the provision of services throughout the national territory without restrictions on the grounds of origin or destination and, consequently, enables the holder to carry out his activity in both urban and inter-urban areas. Unlike the taxi, this activity is not subject to tariffs, schedules and schedules set by the Administration. As you know, the substantial difference between the two activities is that VTC services must always be pre-contracted and the rules that apply to them prohibit tenants from carrying out actions aimed at attracting customers who had not previously hired the service. Thus, it is not legal for a user to stop a rental vehicle with a driver while circulating to then ask for a service, nor for these vehicles to wait parked at strategic stop points pre-established to attract the demand for services from potential users, as I have said, it is specifically reserved for the taxi. However, the truth and truth, as you know perfectly well, is that the services provided by taxis and VTCs meet transport demands that are very difficult to distinguish in some segments, especially in the services provided in urban and metropolitan areas. It is in these segments where there is to some extent unequal competition between the two modes of transport, while car rental services with drivers, as I have said, are not subject to a compulsory tariff regime or to any other series of rigidities relating to timetables, timetables, etc., such as taxis, which allows its holders to compete with some advantages over them in those segments. In order to rationalise competition between the two modes of transport, since the end of the 1990s rules have been laid down to ensure a certain proportionality between the taxi and the authorisation of rental of vehicles by driver, which were finally implemented by an authorisation of VTC for every thirty taxi licences, in order to maintain a certain balance in the competition between these two forms of transport. These rules of proportionality allowed for years the peaceful coexistence of both realities of passenger transport in passenger vehicles. However, as all of you also know, various court judgments that have been handed down in ordinary courts since 2011 and in the Supreme Court since 2014, based on the Omnibus Law adopted in 2009, have determined the entry into the market of a large number of new VTC authorizations, altering the 1/30 relationship, which had allowed peaceful coexistence in both sectors. In fact, the proportion at national level between the two modes of transport is currently in VTC's authorization for every nine taxi licenses, even in some autonomous community becoming one of VTC's for three taxi licenses. In addition, it must be borne in mind that many judicial proceedings are still pending that could determine the entry of thousands of additional new VTC authorizations, which would probably put us in a VTC ratio for every three taxi licenses at the national level and even in some cases in smaller ratios in those autonomous communities with large populations and a strong tourist demand. In recent years, the Ministry of Development has promoted a number of initiatives to facilitate this balanced coexistence among the various services. First, Act No. 9/2013 amending the Land Transportation Management Act, which re-legitimized the establishment of restrictions on the granting of new driver vehicle rental permits under criteria of proportionality with the number of taxi licences existing in each territory. Second, Royal Decree 1057/2015, which reinstated the requirement of a proportion of a VTC authorization for every thirty taxi licenses, which according to the jurisprudence had, as I said before, been annulled in 2009 by the Omnibus Law. In order to determine the content of this royal decree, an attempt was made to reach the maximum possible consensus with the representative associations of taxi drivers and also with the tenants of vehicles with drivers. This royal decree was finally accompanied by a supplementary ministerial order which pointed out the technical and quality conditions to be fulfilled by the companies engaged in the leasing of vehicles with drivers and by the vehicles used in the provision of these services. Finally, Royal Decree 1076/2017, adopted last December, which prohibits the transmission of VTC authorisations within two years of its original granting by the competent authority. This temporary limitation is, by the way, a general rule in the taxi sector. Some municipalities limit it to two, others to four, others to ten and others even prohibit transmission, but in the vast majority of municipalities a time limit is set by which such authorizations are not allowed to be transmitted. In addition, the Royal Decree obliges operators to communicate to a national registry the data of each service to be carried out prior to its initiation. This, in addition to going along the path of the digitalization process of the Spanish economy, also facilitates the management and control of VTCs. In parallel, the National Road Transport Inspection Plan, agreed by the Ministry of Development with the Autonomous Communities, has been...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u35	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u36	... reinforced in recent years for the fight against fraud and intrusion in the provision of vehicle rental services with driver, encouraging the control of the maintenance of the requirements required to obtain the corresponding authorizations, as well as the fulfilment of the conditions for the provision of the services established by regulations. Throughout this process, the Ministry of Development has maintained permanent contact with representatives of both sectors, as well as with the autonomous communities, especially those that have been most affected by the increase in the number of VTC authorizations. The exponential growth experienced by the number of VTC authorisations operating on the market, coupled with the possible access of a significant number of new authorisations as a result of the judicial processes still pending judgement, is beginning to seriously jeopardize the effectiveness of any policy addressed at the local level aimed at rationalising urban and metropolitan transport. On the other hand, it is a fact that the huge increase in the number of VTC permits is altering market conditions in the country's main tourist populations and centres, and this has significantly affected the conditions for the provision of services that have traditionally been served by the taxi. This situation of conflict, coupled with the fact that the existing regulations governing the activity carried out by the taxi in the urban sphere, approved by the local authorities and autonomous communities, clearly highlight its connection with the general interest, has led to the start in recent months of proliferating initiatives in the field of local and autonomous administrations aimed at limiting the operation of the authorizations for the rental of vehicles with drivers in the urban sphere, in order to maintain, I insist, the status quo of the taxi activity. Thus, we have several examples, such as that of August 2017, when the Generalitat of Catalonia passed a royal decree-law regulating certain aspects of the rental of vehicles with driver, which forced the Government to bring an action for unconstitutionality because it invaded powers that the Constitution confers exclusively on the State. In March, the Valencian Courts began the processing of a proposal for a law aimed also at regulating the rental of vehicles with driver, with the aim of limiting the operationality of authorizations at the national level. The Community of Madrid has also undertaken to amend the taxi regulations. It has requested the Ministry of Development to tighten the sanctions and a legal report has been commissioned to ascertain the extent to which it has jurisdiction in relation to this activity. Regardless of the above, a growing number of municipalities are adopting institutional declarations proposing more restrictive vehicle rental conditions than the current ones. We sincerely believe that all these initiatives and regulatory projects not only pose a threat to market unity, but can, to some extent, call into question the effectiveness of the State's competitive title to regulate the legal regime of authorisations, the VTCs, which enable the transport service throughout the national territory. The Government has therefore considered it absolutely necessary to adopt as soon as possible a legislative measure which, on the one hand, guarantees by a rule with a legal status the effectiveness of the rules ensuring the harmonious coexistence of the two modes of transport, without either being obliged to compete with the other under conditions of inferiority, and, on the other hand, guarantees the homogeneity of the conditions for the provision of services throughout the national territory, avoiding a certain conflictivity, which is already pointed out, as a result of the inequality in the adoption of rules in different autonomous communities, both in the constitutional sphere and in the administrative-contentious, for reasons - I repeat - of competence in this field. It is ultimately a question of providing greater legal certainty to the rules applicable to the leasing of vehicles with drivers, in order to ensure the proper balance between the supply of these services and that of the taxi, thus preserving the coexistence of both sectors and the guarantees to the user. I briefly describe the content of the Royal Decree-Law, which consists of a single article, an additional first provision, a single derogatory provision and two final provisions. The single article amends three articles of Act No. 16/1987 of 30 July 1987 on the management of land transport and, in particular, raises to the rank of law two precepts which already existed with a regulatory rank and which were established with the consensus of the taxi and driver vehicle rental sectors. To this end, the so-called proportionality criterion between the supply of VTC and taxi services is first set out. It is determined that the competent autonomous community in each case will refuse to grant a new VTC authorisation where there is already more than one licence to lease vehicles with a driver in its territory for each 30 taxis. This rule aims to maintain the proper balance between the supply of VTC and taxi services. However, it must be said that the autonomous communities are allowed to modify this proportionality rule provided that the application is less restrictive, thus giving them a certain level of discretion that allows them to adapt when they understand that the circumstances of passenger mobility in their territory so advise. Secondly, it includes the so-called habituality criterion, which simultaneously reinforces the national scope of the VTC authorisations and, without contradiction, their link with the territory of the autonomous community in which they have been obtained. Thus, it is expressly stated that vehicle rental authorizations with a driver enable services to be provided throughout the national territory, i.e. their holders may start and terminate a service at any point in the country according to what their customer has requested in each case, but, without prejudice to the foregoing, it is stipulated that vehicles engaged in the rental activity with a driver must be commonly used to provide services whose purpose is to meet needs related to the territory of the autonomous community in which their VTC authorisation is domiciled. That is, while they can operate throughout the territory, their activity should be directed primarily at serving the transportation needs of the autonomous community that issued the authorization. It would not make sense for the granting of the VTC authorisation to take into account the proportion of taxi and driver vehicle rental authorizations existing in an autonomous community if, once one has the authorisation, the holder starts working always or mainly in another distinct autonomous community. In order to allow for the effective application of this criterion, it is established that this rule of regularity is not complied with when more than 20 % of the services performed with the vehicle attached to the VTC authorisation within a period of three months have not been carried out even partially by the territory of the autonomous community which issued the authorisation. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law aims to promote mechanisms for cooperation between the State and the Autonomous Communities to improve competitiveness and to coordinate the activity carried out by the different modes of passenger transport in both urban and inter-urban passenger vehicles. To this end, the legal precept governing the functions of the National Transport Conference is amended to include expressly among those the improvement of the competitiveness of the passenger transport sector and, in line with the objectives pursued by the real-decree law, the need is established to convene in an extraordinary way this national conference to identify and analyze all aspects of the state and autonomous regulations that could be subject to revision, in order to improve the competitiveness and coordination in the urban and inter-urban sphere of the activity carried out by the different modes of transport of passengers in passenger vehicles, which will serve, among other things, to address issues as relevant as the tariff system or the way to be able to contract these services. This is very important because it reflects the Government's willingness to continue working with the sector on further measures to improve competitiveness. The Government has already taken two measures: the Royal Decree of late last year and this Royal Decree-Law. These are not, as someone has said, measures that will turn into patches; on the contrary, they are reforms and steps that we are taking to improve this competitiveness and ensure harmonious coexistence. And in this royal decree-law we have already opened the door to the next step, which is that, in the framework of that national conference, another series of measures can be approached in a calm and coordinated manner with the autonomous communities, the municipalities and representatives of the main associations in the sector that advance in this process of improving competitiveness. In conclusion, once the situation had been analysed and the reasons for the constitutionally required necessity and urgency had been broadly ratified, the Government had decided in the Council of Ministers on 20 April to approve this royal decree-law. We are absolutely convinced that the measures that we have taken to restore legal stability in the field of passenger transport with passenger vehicles and to ensure this orderly and harmonious coexistence between VTC and taxi services should be taken. The Government considers that the validation of the Royal Decree-Law is necessary to achieve this objective, and has sought to obtain the greatest agreement with the groups that make up this House. For this reason, I would like to express my gratitude to those groups that have already advanced their support for validation, and to those that have not yet expressed it, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u37	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of the request for the validation of this royal decree-law which promotes the amendment of the Land Transport Management Act in the matter of the leasing of vehicles with driver, it is appropriate to note that we are faced with regulatory changes that come after periods of uncertainty, complaints and conflictivity against unfair competition arising from the proliferation of vehicles that, in an uncontrolled manner, were causing great damage to the taxi's guild, especially in large cities; a guild that, as a public and regulated service, is subject to the obligations arising from its municipal license and could not compete on equal terms against the fraud, speculation and intrusion resulting from the novel forms of leasing of vehicles with driver. The very high infringement rates detected and the finding of numerous irregular acts for the capture of passengers reflected a very clear unfair competition against the taxi. This royal decree-law seeks to give greater legal certainty to the rental of vehicles with driver and stimulates the balance between the supply of these services and that of the taxi, taking into account that the competence of the management and granting of titles enabling the exercise of regulated activities and professions is attributed to the autonomous communities. In fact, the new text has an impact on coordination between administrations in order to ensure that a common transport system exists throughout the national territory, and it is also making progress in ensuring that the single conditions for the rental of vehicles by drivers are applied throughout Spain. However, we have doubts, because the negative effects, evident in the big capitals, are not perceived in those cities where the competition against the traditional taxi is not as attractive as in the big populations, but from this royal decree-law opens up a greater space of licensing for the VTCs in those places where this problem is today practically non-existent, as is the case with Asturias. Therefore, this legal shielding seems to us to be effective and will favor the guild of the taxi in the big cities, but it can carry side effects in those places of medium or small size where the competition of the VTCs has not been perceived and where, however, from this royal decree-law, it is enabled the possibility of a margin of licensing that in time can be turned against the taxi, because it will be administratively much easier to obtain a license for the rental of vehicles with driver of VTC and it will also be economically much more affordable to obtain that license than that of the traditional taxi. We have doubts about this text and will therefore abstain from its validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u40	Egun where you're going. I begin by pointing out the opposition vote of Euskal Herria Bildu to the validation of this royal decree and I will explain on what basis this opposition vote is based. First, we show our surprise at the forms employed. The actual decree presented to us today for validation says that there is an urgent need or underlies it, but at the same time, in the same text, it is said that the outbreak of this reality of licenses and driver leases is born in 2014. From then until now we have all witnessed the conflict between taxi drivers and these new market sectors. However, now, four years later, without seeking another procedure that would have been more participatory, we are being given this royal decree with the excuse of urgent need. [[Rumors]] But also from the bottom, because in the bottom you still think good...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u42	... that the collaborative society is a new form of competition in the market when in reality it is about deregulation and precarious working conditions. The new forms of market are hidden under a collaborative economy, the new forms of capital expansion which they do are precarious working conditions. That is why you are talking about the need to guarantee and improve competitiveness, but you are not talking about the need to guarantee working conditions or not to further undermine and deregulate a market like this. He tells us about the rigidities of the market established by the demands placed on taxi drivers instead of talking about rights or guarantees for the people who use that service that, I remind you, is public. I conclude with a question that is also crucial for us: you, with this decree, are once again betting on re-centralisation, you are again betting on denying the decision-making capacity of other areas. They prevent, in this case, the Basques and Basques, that we decide how we want to regulate the offer of this public service, without it being you, with your superior rank, who determine how we have to regulate this reality. Where is our ability to decide? It is clear that before this we can only vote against and announce that they will, of course, face us.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u44	Thank you very much, President. Minister, you are going to have our vote in favour, but we are going to give you some consideration. We understand that this is a transitional solution, a patch to arrive at a definitive solution that has not been faced and that we should face among all. Then I'll give you some thought. Second question. He's late, and you've recognized him. The Generalitat ruled to try to resolve this situation; this regulation was resorted to once again. Councillor Rull, who I would like to remind you that he is being held in pretrial detention in an absolutely incomprehensible and not homologable manner in the rest of the European Union, said that it was a timely regulation because it was going to be dealt with and work was being done on it. The Government of the Generalitat, this Government that was only thinking about the monotheme, was regulating matters that concerned citizens and was working on a taxi modernization law that is essential. It is essential, Minister, because we understand, of course, that they are two sectors which are in very different situations. The taxi sector is highly regulated - from our hyper-regulated perspective - and it would have to be faced that they could compete, but on equal terms, not strictly restricting the activity of the VTC. We understand that in the short term it is a solution, but in the medium and long term we should rethink it. [[The Lord]] The taxi is generating an overrun with this hyperregulation and in the 21st century with all the new technologies that we have at our disposal we would surely have to consider having a service at the disposal of citizens and consumers and we should think about what is best for consumers. We therefore call on all of us - this is the responsibility of the local administration, of the autonomous administration and also of this House - to draw up a regulation of the 21st century and to allow all the sectors involved to compete on equal terms - but to compete. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u46	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanation given to us by the Minister has been exhaustive and, of course, justifiable of the necessity and urgency of the proposed amendment to the Land Transport Management Act. This amendment is intended in some way to replace the old rules in Articles 181 and 182 of the Transport Regulation and is justified in principle by the existence of an area of conflict between the taxi sector and the new economic activity that has arisen with the transport vehicles with drivers. As you have recalled, its management contains certain rules relating to the establishment of measures that were previously covered by the regulation and which are now covered by the law - limitation 1/30 of the number of vehicles - and which could be reduced by the autonomous communities, which are competent for the purpose of granting this licence. It also refers to the concept of habituality in traffic when the service is provided in the terrestrial area of the autonomous community: whether or not more than 20% will indicate whether this habituality is exceeded or not. All this without prejudice to another measure, which is the creation of a National Transport Conference, is supposed to involve exclusively coordinating and non-invasive tasks of competences, which remain resident in the autonomous communities. So far the description of the general characteristics of the modification itself mentioned to us. However, behind there is also a double motivation. First of all, there is the need to respect the legal reservation of certain limitations to economic activities, which so far has been made in a rule with a regulatory rank. However, a judgement of 16 December 2017 of the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court already indicated to the Executive that the limitation was in jeopardy and, therefore, that the conflict could worsen. There is also another issue, which is one that we somehow believe is not being resolved and which could lead to new conflicts, which is the issue of proportionality of the measure. The Court of Justice of the European Union also ruled in September or December 2017 - I do not agree now - pointing out that VTC's activities, such as Uber, fall within the scope of transport and, therefore, it is the competent transport authorities of each country that could make such regulation. It is also true that the Court of Justice of the European Union itself requires that restrictions on the freedom of economic activity as such must be sufficiently justified. Otherwise, it could be understood as a restriction incompatible with the principle of free competition. I would like to refer to this as a critical aspect of the drafting of the legal text in order to point out that both the European Union and the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the competition authorities in the Basque Country and Catalonia - as far as I know - have pointed out certain general criteria - I have chosen a paragraph which seems to me particularly indicative - which says that any public intervention in economic regulation must be justified by the existence of market failures or by the need to protect certain legal goods which may justify a restrictive action by the administration - it says in words - necessary, proportionate and non-discriminatory. The measure of the assessment of the legal text proposed to us must be borne in mind whether or not it is in accordance with the justification, if its motivation includes respect for those principles of necessity, proportionality and non-discrimination. With regard to non-discrimination, since it is a public service, the characterization of a public service activity, as is the case with the taxi, it is clear that there can be a limitation area as such. As for necessity and proportionality, it is true that he is trying to present it to us in some way, but let us also say that the legal text may suffer perhaps from a certain lack of motivation and what he does to us is to predict that perhaps it is also possible that this 1/30 rule or even any other limiting rule - Mr Martínez Oblanca has very well explained that it is not the same experience in small cities as in large cities - will finally be resolved so that we can point out in this regard the competent jurisdiction in this matter. That is to say, it is a necessary modification primarily due to the rise to the legal rank of the limitation that has existed to the present day, but perhaps its rules will again be questioned because the principle of proportionality could be called into question by the different interests at stake. However, Minister, you know our position in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u48	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, today is your lucky day, and the Republican Left of Catalonia will also vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law on land transport management and the leasing of vehicles with driver. I will not surprise you if I tell you that it is not the text that Esquerra Republicana would have submitted to validation, but it is true that this is a first step, it is an essential first step for the regulation of a sector, that of the rental of vehicles with driver, which it is true that it has experienced a great growth in recent years, and also for the defense and protection of a sector as important as that of the taxi. It is true that the text that is put to the vote today comes late and that it is further proof that legislators are going - and I do not say go, I say go - several steps behind citizenship, and not only citizenship but also several steps behind new social realities and new economic initiatives, and I say this because we would have to learn once and for all the lesson. In our view, however, this is an indispensable first step in order to put such a delicate matter in order, and it is true that it has led to strong protests from the sector we are dealing with, from the taxi sector. We therefore welcome the willingness of the Government to create mechanisms for coordination and cooperation among autonomous communities, such as the establishment of the National Transport Conference. However, we would like this conference to go beyond the consultative status it is intended to be given and to become or actually become a genuine governing body for the management of land transport by drivers. I would just like to point out - and I must do so - that the powers that the different autonomous communities may have in the matter of driver's car rental permits are not, ladies and gentlemen, by delegation of the State, as this royal decree establishes, but because the majority of the citizens of these territories and because most of their political representatives have decided to do so and in the same way have agreed with the State; I wanted to make this point because it seems to me to be quite important. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, together with a heritage vision of the institutions, always have this completely paternalistic vision of what competitive sharing means, and I do not think that should be the case. And it is that this is not part of a delegation but part of an agreement, part of a pact and part of a dialogue, something that is true that you lack a little bit. Republican Left understands this royal decree as a starting point for the management of the sector. In the same way, I must say that we will be awaiting their fulfilment, as well as respect for the rights and, at the same time, the duties of the taxi sector, the VTCs and, above all, the users. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, it is a pleasure to talk about future issues in this House. First of all, I wanted to thank you for your presence at the Taxi Federation, Cabify and Uber - I think they've all come. The main message we have to send to the citizens from this House is that this Congress is not just looking at the navel, which not only comes to defend the chiringuitos of each one but thinks of the citizens of this country. As we have an obligation to think about citizens, we have an obligation to move forward with the integration of the taxi and VTC sector. We must move towards an orderly integration that allows us to compete on an equal footing, that allows us to have a better service, that allows us to have a quality service, that allows us to have cleaner cities, that allows us not to put a stop to technology, that allows us to enjoy a more competitive service - I insist - of healthy competition. That is why we have to regulate, and not to put patches, which is what Mr De la Serna's royal decree does once again in this sector. The sector, Mr De la Serna, you know very well, has changed enormously in recent decades. There are technologies that reduce the costs of asymmetric information. There are new consumer demands, because cities are full of people and there are many cars and lots of traffic. Therefore, there are a number of changes that in other cities such as Paris, Amsterdam or other places have decided to regulate, precisely for the benefit of the citizens, in order to be able to integrate these sectors, in order to be able to integrate the different platforms of urban mobility and in this way to favor, as I say, consumers, but internalizing, yes, the costs of transition, as happens in all the economic transformations of the world, and this is one of the most disruptive sectors in the world. Let me tell you that I understand those in the taxi sector when they say, "I have paid a license, and the license has come out very expensive; I am entitled to that license, which I have not amortized." I understand the gentlemen of the taxi when they say: I want flexibility in rates, I want more space to be able to compete. And I also understand the gentlemen of the VTC platforms when they say: How am I going to stop the citizens' demand, how am I going to stop offering a service and a technological advance that citizens want! What are we going to do, Mr. De la Serna? Tell Netflix to stop offering series because a bureaucrat doesn't like them? What are we gonna do? Tell the gentlemen of Spotify that we return to the regulation of the 1990s, to the videocassette to offer music, to the property rights of the 1990s? [[Applauds]] No, no, What brave countries do, what advanced nations do is understand the changes, assume them, and courageously sit people at the table, sit the different sectors, sit the autonomous communities, the municipalities, the state, to talk, to look for models of success. I insist you don't have to invent too much. Look outside, look beyond the borders. Let us stop thinking like a provincial parliament and think like a government of a modern nation. [[Applauds]] Mr. De la Serna, the worst enemy of the taxi, the worst enemy of the VTC and the worst enemy of the users is the exasperating immobilisation of your government and of the former, who are unable to face a changing sector Do you know the law that the government brings us today? They say: No, we bring a new law to update the sector and so on. Do you know exactly what year they are proposing regulation? From the year 1990, Mr. De la Serna! Hasn't the world really changed? Has it really not changed one of the most disruptive sectors of all, for you to come to us with a 1990 regulation? I will tell you what is happening, that since you have done nothing, the CNMC has come and said: Ostras!, perhaps we must move towards the integration of the sector; and I do not agree with these ratios that are offered and with this geographical limitation. And soon there will be a Supreme Court ruling that perhaps gives the CNMC reason, causing a very rapid and enormously damaging liberalisation for the sector. And since you have not been able to regulate anything, because you have been unable to sit down to the sectors to offer a regulation that internalizes those transitional costs, we now find this patch that probably does not serve at all either. That is the result of the disastrous immobilism of this Government. [[Applauds]] I understand that those who are against - and Mr Mayor will be talking about this - competition and those who would like to see state monopolies in virtually all sectors, such as Mrs Colau, who will ultimately get that we cannot have access to transport in Barcelona or that you have to go to the black market to pay bonuses to taxis because there is no, because they are against competition, and because they are against competition, raise prices. There's a lot more room for competition. There is room for everyone, to integrate the new platforms, the taxi, to internalize those transition costs, even the platforms are willing to potentially pay a transition fee, Mr De la Serna. Why don't you treat him with ambition? Why don't you sit down and talk about the main topics? Do you think it is normal that taxis cannot be shared in Spain, that we cannot have carpooling as in all modern cities? Are you in favour of pollution? Are you in favour of everyone taking the private car? What is your approach to the future? Why do taxis when they leave for Alcalá de Henares have to go empty? Why do you think, Mr De la Serna, that licences from 1987 to 2016 have risen the price by 500 %, Mr De la Serna, while IBEX has done so to 250 %? Maybe there's a problem there; maybe we have to deal with it; maybe we'll have to buy some of those licenses. Let us bravely approach regulation, Mr De la Serna. You can't be against progress. I believe that there are some who arrive earlier, others arrive a little later, but a regulation can be found that guarantees workers' rights, that guarantees that taxes are paid, that at the same time allows competition and that at the same time it is in the interests of the citizens. I insist, Mr De la Serna, don't forget, those who pay you the salary are the users, it's the citizens. Answer them, too. With its regulation it is playing Russian roulette in the taxi sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. The first thing I want to do is to thank the taxi industry for its struggle, mainly for four reasons: for defending jobs in our country; for defending a fair taxation; for defending their living conditions and working conditions; and for defending the public service, which is scarcely heard. Public service! Guaranteeing people's interests through regulation. I would also like to thank you for something that we believe is very important, because what is happening right now in the taxi sector, in the transport sector, is not alien to the rest of the economy. We must thank the taxi industry for putting on the agenda what is the economic model that is being implemented in our country, and it is called the 'overisation' of the economy. [[Applauds]] It is a business model based on tax havens, based on tax avoidance, based on job insecurity, based on the extractive economy of the large speculative monopolies. This does not happen only in the taxi; it happens in the house, with Airbnb, with the Socimis and the vulture funds that trigger the rental prices. It also happens in the delivery of food at home, where they tell the kids that going on a bike is to be an entrepreneur who works for Deliveroo or Glovo. [[Applauds]] They are exploiters who come to suck our country's economy at the expense of working people and consumers. [[Rumors]] It must be said that this is not simply a debate between taxis and VTCs. I don't think saying that would be honest. Besides, those who know a little bit of economy - I don't know much - have it clear. What our country is experiencing is an economic attack by sectors that want to build a monopoly in our country's urban passenger transport service based on the extractive economy, dumping and job insecurity. That's what we're talking about. In the face of this debate, in which large companies are going to crush with an economic sector based on a public service, on the private provision by small owners, we are in need of competitiveness. How can we talk about competitiveness when they are attacking the country? Is anyone going to defend this country against the big monopolies or are we going to keep looking up and saying that it is the same working people, who throw many hours of work, pay their taxes and keep schools and the health system, as those who want to drive transport from the Bermuda Islands? Are we going to put them on the same plane? I'm clear who I'm with, I have no doubt. [[Applauds]] This attack is the ruin for the taxi, but it is also the ruin for the infidels who buy VTC, because now what is being raised is an oversaturation of the market to carry out a dumping strategy. They don't care what a driver will win on the street, they don't care if they're going to saturate our car cities, they don't care if they're going to deplete the service; they don't care. The only thing that matters to you right now is to make the market with dumping strategies, monopoly strategies, Mr Roldán, but of the monopolies that you like, of the private monopolies based in tax haven. [[Applauds]] There is a threat of the entry of 60,000 licenses, 60,000 VTC authorizations. But the problem is not only VTC's authorizations, but also who will make use of those authorizations, why 60 000 are requested, why there are vulture funds buying authorizations. That is the question that should be asked. It is clear that there is a risk that urban passenger transport will no longer have public regulation, i.e. that citizens by voting, when voting in municipal or autonomous elections, will be able to define the model of transport, rather than being decided by the CEOs of the big transnationals from Delaware or from the Bermuda Islands. We and we believe that this is a matter of popular sovereignty, that people have the capacity to determine what transportation is like in their country. This royal decree comes late, it is insufficient and it is also very hard because we have to assume that we are going to adopt a rule that is not going to be complied with, and pose that is very hard. We cannot oppose a law that raises the need for 1/30 and put limits on the economic attack our country is facing by extractive companies based in tax havens. Of course, how are we going to oppose that! But effective measures are needed to make those percentages real because, if not, we are cheating on people. We believe that the opportunity is being lost to be able to do so, and perhaps, as the debate opens, it is good that it can also be transformed into a bill to introduce more missing issues. I'd like to tell you a few things because I know that for Mr. Roldán it's the same for a taxi driver who lives in Vallecas as a CEO who has his headquarters in Delaware, but not for me. I'm telling you because there are some differences. For example, Cabify's corporate structure is $320 million and its matrix is in Delaware; it constituted twenty-eight companies under the name Fiesta Omnibus and still does not pay taxes, it goes out to return. Uber, a holding company located in the Netherlands and using tax engineering called the Dutch sandwich, clear strategies of tax avoidance. And in the end, who's gonna pay for this? First of all, the taxi sector is going to pay for it. Secondly, the users are going to pay for it, and the example is in San Francisco, where they got in, they destroyed a sector and now the rates are no cheaper, Mr Roldán, they are 30% more expensive. Private monopolies are what they have, that they have no public interest; that is what public services have, that people have the capacity to control through their elected representatives in the polls, and not through CEOs in tax havens. It seems to us that there are two positions: those who propose that it be transformed into a bill and that it can be discussed and we can deal with it now and those who propose that it be discussed later. Surely we are going to lose that vote, we are clear, but we want to say that the will to agree has to be demonstrated, the will to agree to avoid chaos in our cities, a threat that we have right now by the vultures who want to saturate the streets of our cities. There must be a commitment from everyone there and it will have to be demonstrated, if the bill does not come out, if that is true what is being said that there is such a commitment. And I call on all public administrations, the autonomous communities and the municipalities to take steps to defend our economy against the attack that is being suffered by the extractive economy, by companies based in tax havens.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u53	You have to conclude, Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u54	I'm done. It is a shame that we see ourselves here and in this situation and that it has had to be the sector, in a mobilization coup, that forces them to start changing things. But I want to tell the sector to stick together because it is necessary to be able to face the challenges of the future. Once again we demonstrated what Violeta Parra said: 'The people loving the homeland and so badly corresponded'. In front of this we and we have it very clear: Fatherland yes, colony no! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. The Socialist Group has the floor for Mr Ramos Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u56	Thank you, President. Today we have seen this Parliament, like other times, the three types of intervention that exist. The first type of intervention is the one that comes out here to be applauded by yours to rabies, to punch each other in the chest and to say: how well we do, we are the best and we have come here to see if we win this debate. [[Applauds]] Then there are the people who want to address the general public so that they understand what we're talking about. Frankly, if I were a school, high school or university teacher and asked Members to raise their hands who knows what we have talked about, what are the characteristics of the problems of taxis and VTCs, I think very few people would raise their hands. And there is another kind of intervention in which we are looking to talk about what we have done at this time, put solutions on the table and see how we can deal with a problem that is very serious. I am going to do one thing, I am going to use full transparency and I am going to say what the Socialist Party has done, what it is going to do and what we have done these days. We talked to the sector over the past year every week and every month, we talked to the sector these days - last night, this morning, before yesterday - we talked to the minister, we talked to the autonomous communities and municipalities and we believe we have a formula that we are going to propose. Here, Podemos has said that he is going to vote in favour of validation but that he is going to ask for it to be treated as a bill. I'm going to say why we think it's a mistake to treat it as a bill. Does the spokesman for Podemos believe that if we open the debate as a bill it will be agreed with the PP or Citizens to improve the conditions of this decree? Do you really believe that? They have sold to the taxi sector which, if discussed as a bill, will eventually be able to make improvements. Frankly, in this House budgets are going to go ahead with worse working conditions, worse wages, and worse... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u57	Wait a minute, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u58	... social conditions, with more liberalisation, does the spokesman of Podemos believe that if we bring here the debate on how to improve the sector we will be able to improve it? I say no, it even seems to me irresponsible to the sector, and that is why I am going to make a proposal. As we have said, I believe that the sector needs to improve, so we are presenting a GNP in this Parliament calling for the modernisation of the taxi sector. It is curious to see how Podemos leads the demonstrations but has not brought any initiative to this Parliament on the taxi sector. It is very good that they are manifested, but apart from demonstrating, we parliamentarians have an obligation and responsibility to deal with citizens' problems here and have not brought any initiative on the taxi sector to this Parliament. That shows what matters to Podemos in the taxi sector. And now we're talking about Citizens. Are you going to agree with Citizens? Because, what is the position of Citizens? Defending total liberalisation or protecting the taxi sector? Has anyone found out? Or one day one thing and the next the opposite? [[Applauds]] Do you really think they're gonna agree? Well, as I was saying that I think we need to make proposals, we are going to support validation, we told the minister in private and we tell him publicly. We are going to ask that it not be treated as a bill because it would be irresponsible to the sector. But since we believe that it is a patch - we believe that it is a patch - and that there are certain improvements to be made, we are going to ask that from next week the government summons autonomous communities, municipalities and the whole sector - I repeat, the whole sector, not just a part - to see the changes that need to be made, agree them beforehand and bring them to this House for validation. If we open a debate in this House and let Citizens and We can play to see how many votes each one of this debate takes, I think we can take a lot of votes but citizens can get hurt. We believe that what is happening in the taxi sector is something that is happening in many sectors and is going to happen in many more. Technology has radically changed everything. Before the taxi sector had one market, one target audience, and the VTC had another market, another target audience, were different. Since the technology and pre-contracting requested by the VTC can be done via mobile, the VTC has entered the market and target audience that the taxi sector had and has also applied the worst practices that can be applied. It's true what the spokesman for Podemos said. What they have done in other parts of the world when entering the taxi sector is, taking advantage of the fact that they do not have regulated rates, to lower rates at first and make them very attractive, but when they have finished with the taxi sector the rates go up and the citizens, the users cannot use it because it ceases to be a public service, so we think we have to regulate it. I believe that the problem with the taxi sector is a problem in many sectors in this country. Technology goes at one pace, it goes on the one hand, and the political class goes on the other. We're going at radically different rhythms. We must understand that we have to adapt, that we have to understand the new society and that the new society and technology cannot under any circumstances mean worse working conditions, worse wages and worse quality of life for workers in this country. Let us make a regulation that does not allow this, because so far it has been shown that we are not able to take advantage of technology so that citizens, users, can be much more competitive and take advantage of it, but neither have we managed to make technology work for people to live better. I think we have a problem as a political class - although that sounds very ugly as a political class - because we do not understand a reality that eats us on the ground, a reality that private companies have understood and that they are taking advantage of to have more benefits, to have a much more unequal society and to create many conflicts. There is the conflict of housing, the conflict of the taxi sector, now we talk about the conflict in robotics and tomorrow it will be the conflict of the autonomous car. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, if we put the batteries on, we get to work, we get to study, we get to understand the new society and we face the challenges of the future with a number of principles, such as better quality of life for citizens, better rights and better working and wage conditions, we will see that politics has served something. It is not clear from this debate that citizens have the feeling that politics is good for something. The Group of Podemos will be satisfied because they have applauded its spokesman a few times and has also created here a conflict with Citizens, and Citizens will be very happy because it has shown that it has a radically different position from that of its competitors, but I wonder - and it ended thus - that serves the citizens? Does that serve the taxi sector? I know that in the taxi sector there are different views on how to deal with this. We have made our approach public and privately. Today we tell the minister that next week we will call on all sectors, we will agree on a text, we will see the improvements, we will guarantee the conditions, we will bring them to this House and we will validate what needs to be validated. Let us think of the citizens for once and let us stop thinking about our interests and the interests of the parties. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. Mr Herrero Bono has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u60	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, Minister, and a very special greeting to the taxi sector, which accompanies us today from the rostrum. This morning, like many days, I was taking the taxi to come here to Parliament, and I was talking to the taxi driver about the current issues of the day. His name is Luis, he has been autonomous for sixteen years and he told me that he has risen at six in the morning and that he would not arrive home before seven in the afternoon. This is not a special case, but the example of the thousands of taxi drivers who travel through Madrid, working people, people who leave their skin every day to take their family forward, but above all humble people, eager to continue improving and who work to keep this country going forward. [[Applauds]] They all deserve today that this Parliament should agree to respect a sector that has been, is and will continue to be the best ambassador of what the Spanish brand means. Today we come here to discuss the validation of the royal decree-law that this government intends to launch, a royal decree-law that faces a very complex issue, a royal decree-law that tries to mediate between two very different types of transport but that at the same time are similar, a royal decree-law in line with the new social and technological reality that today we have all the Spaniards. This is a royal decree-law that preserves coexistence in our streets between both sectors and gives guarantees to users of them. In short, it is a royal decree-law that comes to safeguard the service of the taxi and to order a conflict that, if not remedied, could end with more than 64 217 taxi drivers from all over Spain in the queue of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a conflict that has its origin with names and surnames: José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the Socialist Party and the adoption of the already famous omnibus law, a law that particularly affected the activity of the taxi and that endorsed not only a parallel activity, but also deregulation; a law that already in its debate in 2009 our spokesman of the People's Party and today partner, Mr Celso Delgado, already described as an inappropriate modification. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And of those dusts, these muds, because listening to today's interventions no one would say, would they, Mr. Roldán? A sector of the taxi that could have had its final finish of having gone ahead of the government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez and Mr. Albert Rivera. Or do you, gentlemen of Citizens, no longer recall page 11 of the agreement with the Socialist Party, in which you proposed the parliamentary presentation to identify the obstacles preventing the development of the collaborative economy? Have you also changed your mind about this or is it simply an electoral calculation? [[Applauds]] What I would ask of you, Mr Roldán, is that you have a little bit more respect for a taxi sector that is not a chiringuite, as you just mentioned here today. [[Applauds]] I say that because the nearly 65,000 taxi families certainly do not forget this or want to eliminate the taxation of modules in the so-called hug agreement. But, as I said, the adoption of the Omnibus Law created a legal vacuum whereby more than 7058 VTC licenses were already granted and many others are still pending resolution in the courts. I would therefore like today to thank the Minister for Development, Mr Íñigo de la Serna, for the effort, work and excellent work he has done; a ministry which, together with the Government of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, for example, is carrying out the highest rate of inspections to safeguard the taxi sector. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the new policy is tangled and the People's Party is resolved. [[Applauds]] And I refer not only to this royal decree, but to all the measures that have been developed over the past few years, measures such as the one adopted in July 2013 which agreed on the proportionality of 1/30 between taxi and VTC licences to safeguard the status quo of the taxi or the adoption of the November 2015 regulation, which established a series of measures such as that vehicle rental services as a driver should have been contracted before the start of the service or that VTCs could not park or circulate by public means to attract customers who had not previously hired. Or more recently, the one that occurred at the end of last year that prevented the transmission of VTC authorizations within two years of its granting. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, your usual demagogy is of no use to you today. Today, they cannot say that this Government is not working on this issue that is so important to all of us. They cannot come today to wear any medals as defenders of a sector that they have never met or, rather, that they have harmed. We therefore ask the various parliamentary groups to support the validation of this very important and necessary royal decree-law for the taxi sector. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have the opportunity to make amends because it is also up to you all to be satisfied today that you have resolved such a complex issue which affects them and thousands of Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Herrero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/68 to 110/80. As no interventions have been requested, opinions will be put to the vote at the end of this meeting by consent. After the debate on the agenda items, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] TAKES INTO ACCOUNT PROPOSALS FOR COMMUNITY LAW AND AUTONOMOUS CITIES : [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, PROPOSAL FOR THE LAW OF THE PARLIAMENT OF CATALUNIA, REFORMING ORGANICAL LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, ON THE CRIMINAL CODE, ON THE DEPENALIZATION OF EUTANASIS AND ASSISTANCE TO SUicide [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 125/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u63	We begin the voting. We vote first of all to take into consideration proposals for the law of Autonomous Communities and Cities. Proposal for a law of the Parliament of Catalonia amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, decriminalizing euthanasia and helping suicide [[Organic]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 3 telematics votes, 343; 173 plus 2 telematics votes, 175; 135 plus 1 telematics vote, 136; abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u64	It is therefore taken into consideration. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u65	We now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which amends Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to transpose European Union directives in the areas of finance and terrorism, and to address issues of an international nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 250 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 252 against, 91; abstentions, 1 vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u66	It is therefore taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to vote on the non-legislative proposals. No law proposal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group on the implementation of a system of selection and training of teachers, Internal Resident Teacher, based on the MIR of medical practitioners. [[DIR]] We voted in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour 166 against 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u68	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL NOT FOR THE LAW OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS ON STRENGTHENING THE DUAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING OF THE SPANISH EDUCATION SYSTEM. [[File number 162/000562]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u69	We voted for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on strengthening the dual vocational training of the Spanish educational system. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Citizens, Basque and Mixed, Mrs Nogueras and Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 180 against, 154 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u70	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u71	We shall vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the motions resulting from urgent appeals. Firstly, the motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on measures to recover a quality national health system aimed at improving health and reducing inequalities. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 206 against, 132 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u72	It's approved. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the situation of the administrative and financial blockade of public research. [[File number 173/000089]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u73	We voted for the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the situation of administrative and financial blockade of public research. We are going to vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Confederal groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 202 abstentions, 139.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u74	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u75	We vote for validations or repeals of royal decrees-laws. First, Royal Decree-Law 2/2018 of 13 April, amending the consolidated text of the Law on Intellectual Property approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/1996 of 12 April, and incorporating into the Spanish legal order Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 and Directive 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 148 with 1 vote in favour, 149 against, 2 abstentions, 191 with 2 votes in favour, 193.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u76	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 341 votes in favour, 334 votes in favour, 341 votes in favour, 344 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u77	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 3/2018, OF 20 APRIL, AMENDING LAW 16/1987, OF 30 JULY, ON THE ORDER OF TERRITORIAL TRANSPORT, IN THE FIELD OF DRIVING VEHICLES. [[File number 130/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u78	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on Royal Decree-Law 3/2018 of 20 April, amending Act No. 16/1987 of 30 July 1987 on the organisation of land transport, concerning the leasing of vehicles with ducts. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 305 plus 2 votes in favour, 307 against, 2 abstentions, 34 plus 1 vote in favour, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u79	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please. Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the handling of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 plus 3 telematics votes, 344; 118 plus 2 telematics votes, 120; 222 plus 1 telematics vote, 223; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u80	It will therefore not be dealt with by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-10-CD180510.u81	We shall now vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. We shall vote jointly on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Can they be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Those opinions were therefore adopted. The meeting rose. Thank you very much. It was eleven and thirty-five minutes in the morning.
