ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[Rumors]] We continue with the point regarding the debate of the entire bill of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor on the position-setting table by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u2	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend these budgets, orange budgets, budgets with more than 8 billion budget headings for the citizens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u3	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Please, I beg you to remain silent and to occupy your seats. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u4	As I told you, these are orange budgets, with more than 8 billion budget items that give a social twist to Zapatero and Rajoy's cut-off policies for a decade. The cuts, the pensions of the PSOE, the cuts to the civil servants, in short, the biggest social cuts in democracy, will pass into history, but also the tax increases, cuts in health, in education, to the autonomous communities, which see their departures increased. But, above all, they are budgets which also aim at political stability and financial stability. First of all, I would like to remind you that these budgets are six months late. These budgets should have been presented in October, but since the Socialist Party has devoted itself to not being for six months, these budgets have not been able to go forward. An irresponsible, powerless Socialist Party... [[Protests]] Yesterday we listened to them carefully, so I appeal to parliamentary respect. I know the Socialist Party does not like what I say, but you have blocked the budgets for six months. [[Applauds]] Six months of no-no, six months of slogan, six months of naphthaline and of course six months very unproductive. On the other hand, Citizens in September reached a pre-agreement with the Government, negotiating - because changes are not achieved with slogans, they are achieved by negotiating - to make a political turn by speaking to these budgets. So, as I was telling you, six months later - late, but better late than never - budgets that 13 million Spaniards were waiting for arrive in the House. These budgets that we will adopt today benefit 13 million Spanish middle-class workers, who cannot wait for internal disputes in the parties, who cannot be at the mercy of what happens in the Socialist Party or the empowerment of the Socialist Party, who do not care at all about political battles. What they want is to lower their taxes, be able to arrive at the end of the month, have a salary supplement, be able to pay their children's day care, be able to have a higher paternity permit and end the cuts in dependency or in health care. This is the reality of these budgets. So we are going to vote in favour of these budgets that we consider ours because we have negotiated them, because we have worked them, because we have turned that policy of Zapatero and Rajoy over the last ten years and because they are budgets that have good news for the Spaniards. After such a long crisis - since Zapatero denied the crisis until today has passed a decade - I think the Spaniards deserve good news. And these budgets bring good news for the working middle class, good news for the control of public finances and also the control of the public deficit, and bring good news for political stability at such a delicate time for Spain. That is why, because they bring good news for the working middle class, because they give financial stability to Spain's finances, stability to meet the deficit commitment to Europe, and finally because we want political stability in the face of the separatist challenge, in front of those who want to break this country.. [[Protests]] Then I'll go with you. [[Applauds]] Faced with such a separatist challenge, facing those who want to break solidarity between Spaniards, equality between Spaniards, against those who pursue those we think differently in Catalonia, of course one would have expected the Socialist Party to think more about Spain than the acronyms. They haven't been able to think about Spain, they've been thinking only about acronyms, primary ones, and that's how it goes. I therefore recommend to the Socialist Party that, in the face of the separatist challenge, why are the budgets voted today with Republican Squerra or Bildu? Why? [[Applauds]] Let's go to the first part of these budgets, which is what really matters, which is what comes into the pocket of the Spaniards. It has been ten years since the Zapatero Government approved the pension, the cuts, the reduction of salaries to officials, the increase in taxes, which then followed with the Rajoy Government. The Spaniards hoped that someone would ease their pockets, that instead of putting their hand in their pockets, they would leave their money in their pockets. We have achieved a major tax reduction, especially for those who do not reach the end of the month, a fair tax reduction, a social policy. We have achieved this without increasing expenditure, we have managed to do so precisely by leaving those who do not reach the end of the month their money in their pocket. That is our social policy, a policy that means that those who don't get to the end of the month have their money and don't have to contribute to what they can't because they don't get to the end of the month. It hasn't been easy getting that tax cut, starting with Mr. Montoro not wanting the tax cut. [[Shows an El Mundo headline]] This headline shows it: Montoro discards tax cuts in 2018. Mr. Montoro, do you remember about the carrots and all that? Mr. Montoro didn't want to lower taxes, he said carrots had to be left by the end of the legislature. I don't know if you expect the legislature to be over or have actually had to rectify at the citizens' request. However, the reality is that the People's Party has had to accept a tax rebate that did not want those who did not arrive at the end of the month, a tax rebate for those who charge less than 14 000, people who have very difficult to maintain their purchasing power; but also for those who charge between 14 000 and 18 000 euros, who will see that there is a tax rebate of 628 euros on average for all of them. What does that mean? More money in your pocket than you don't get by the end of the month. Can the Socialist Party explain to us why it is against those who do not arrive at the end of the month not having that money in their pocket? Can you tell us why you are going to try to prevent those who charge 1000 or 1200 euros a month from paying IRPF? I don't understand, I don't understand why you're opposed to those who have less having it a little less difficult. On the other hand, we have also achieved in these budgets not only a tax reduction but also an end to the cuts, Zapatero's cuts and Rajoy's cuts, which ends after a decade. Pensions, cuts and the freezing of pensions are over; that is what the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez sat in this Chamber when he was still here. Therefore, cuts in health care, in education, are put an end to the increase of EUR 4 billion in social security contributions for the Autonomous Communities, which I hope will be spent on that and not on other things. We will also ensure that communities do not waste money and spend it on it and not on other things. So there are four billion that have to go for health, for education, for dependency and for social policies. There is also support for families, because the protagonists of these budgets are not the political parties, the protagonists of these budgets are the Spaniards, the families that do not arrive at the end of the month, those who want to have children, those who have elderly people in charge; these are the protagonists of the budgets. Therefore, it is a help to families, to people who are seeing us who want to have children and have it complicated. We are going to give a tax check, a negative tax on the IRPF, so that those who want to pay the day care to their children have 1000 euros available each year for it. That's social policy. [[Applauds]] Can the Socialist Party explain to us why it opposes those who do not arrive at the end of the month and young families can have day care in charge of the IRPF? Can the Socialist Party explain to us why it opposes all this? [[Applauds]] The truth is, there's no one who understands them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u5	One second, Mr. Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u6	There are many families in Spain that have seniors in charge, who are also taking care of their seniors, as their seniors have taken care of them with pensions. For here there is a negative tax for families with elderly dependants, also for those in charge of their spouse or a family member with disabilities and also for large families. We must help and return the effort to those who have left some of their work and effort in this crisis. All this is opposed by Podemos and the Socialist Party in these budgets. And they are also opposed to conciliation and equality between women and men; they are going to oppose with their vote to increase paternity leave. Citizens have achieved in a year and a half three more weeks. You guys in 30 years, nothing. [[Applauds]] Parents who are watching us will have five weeks of paternity to be with their children when they are born. That is conciliation policy and not to say'speakers' instead of'speakers'. That's conciliation policy. [[Applauds]] All this is being opposed by the Socialist Party and we can. We will also talk about equality between Spaniards, equality between public servants. Finally, there is a historic demand for national police, civilian guards and autonomous police to cover the same for the same work: to fight corruption, to defend our freedoms, to fight terrorism. The police and the civilian guards deserved a real recognition in their pockets, on the daily payroll, because those people literally leave their lives for us, for defending our freedoms. Of the initial 50 million proposed by the People's Party in the negotiation, we have reached 500 million, ten times more than we had initially agreed; and it does not end here: it will have to continue this way next year and the next year to end the legislature with that equality. The families of the civilian guards and police therefore deserve recognition in these budgets. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party is going to vote against the fact that cultural VAT is being lowered; it is going to vote against the fact that 10 % is being paid in cinema and not 21 % is being paid in cinema. That's what they're going to oppose. Look at what their slogans have left: in votes against cultural policies. We have already achieved for the theatre, for the dance, for the live music that the VAT was 10% - Rajoy had raised it in the last legislature - and now we have achieved that between the cinema as well, and you with your vote - less bad that you do not add - you will try to prevent the cultural VAT from returning to the reduced VAT. Is that your cultural policy? To vote against budgets that recognize the effort to industry, that sector that also generates employment, that generates added value, that is part of our brand and our culture? In these Citizens' budgets it has managed to include, as in 2017, part of the cultural VAT. On the other hand, we have also managed, at last - and I say this because we have done it by negotiating and not by shouting - that pensions go up, that they do it, by the way, with the CPI, something you did not get. Do you remember Zapatero's pensioner? [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah. All Spaniards remember how you froze the pensions. In these budgets you have been left without argument, you have been left without the only reason you could have to overturn the budgets. They are still in time to rectify: they can abstain, they can vote in favour. They've run out of arguments. They went out on the street to claim what these budgets already collect. Well, at least back them up, if that's what they really claimed, or did they just want to shake? [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do you know what's going on? That in the 21st century and in a House with many parties the changes are achieved by negotiating, not with obsolete bipartisanism. I know you liked it better when the PP was wrong and it was your turn, but now, when the PP is wrong, it's no longer your turn, it's up to the Spaniards to choose in the next elections. If you do not do it right, if you do not know how to make a useful opposition, the Spaniards will not choose you. So, from now on, the bipartisan nostalgia in which the turn is on you when the other one fucks up, now you have to do things right and that's probably why you don't raise your head and you're in it is not no. So, social policy, pension increases, tax cuts... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u8	It's costing at 9:00 in the morning, but... As I was telling you, why can we make these budgets? Because there is political stability. Why does Spain grow? Why does the Spanish economy grow? Because we square the beads. Why does Spain grow? Because we've filled the deficit. Do you know - and this is the second reason why we are going to vote in favour of these budgets - how much did you leave the deficit? 9 %; these budgets will go to 2.3%. An effort, not from the government, but from the Spanish middle class that has tightened a hole or two in the belt. You left this country in ruin, with 9 deficit points, with a mismanagement of the public accounts. And these budgets are the first to return financial and budgetary sovereignty to Spain, because an effort needs to be made. [[Applauds]] So, meeting Europe is also important. These budgets are the first in ten years - those of 2017, those we have agreed Citizens and the government - that meet the deficit target, the first: 3.07 and the target was 3.1, minister. It's proven that by making a deal, you get to square the bills. Besides, do you know what happens when the accounts are squared? It lowers the risk premium, there is legal and political certainty. That's what we're getting, what you didn't want to do when Mr. Zapatero ruled. And Citizens will continue to do so as long as the conditions we demand are met. In 2018 these budgets have to go to 2.3. You can lower taxes, you can make an expansive policy, you can square the accounts, and you can ultimately increase social security. That's only done one way, doing things right. If what we do is spend more on the account, if we do what you did - ruin Spain - then we pay it with cuts, then we depend on the banks, then we have the evil financial sector, the evil markets - those are your allies because they are the ones we have had to finance - the Zapatero cuts and the bad economic policy. Spain does not deserve to return to Zapatero or the policies of the Socialist Party. The future has to be even more ambitious, even more reformist, with an economic policy even better than what we are doing, but for now, at least let the public accounts go ahead because there are 13 million Spaniards waiting. I will also talk to you about political stability. How much is political stability worth? How is political stability valued? Political stability is in every private contract; political stability is in the risk premium; political stability is in the financial cost we pay of our debt; political stability is what allows us to make reforms. If there is no political stability, there is no law. If it were for you these budgets would fall and we would be in a situation of absolute instability. In this case, in Catalonia, without government, with the coups still trying to form a government to be disloyal to the Constitution and you as accomplices. I therefore ask the Socialist Party to reflect. Why do you, like the thugs, try to prevent these budgets from coming forward? [[Protests]] Yeah, you guys vote the same as the thugs. [[Several Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group make negative signs]] Oh, are you going to change the vote? Perfect! [[Applauds]] Because with your vote against these budgets, if it were for you and not for Citizens, you wouldn't get ahead. And if they didn't move forward, we'd be in a situation of greater instability. By the way, the budgets of the PSOE have gone ahead in Andalusia. You know why? Because there's not the PSOE in the opposition, there's Citizens and we know how to negotiate budgets with your party. [[Applauds]] And you know what happens? That budgets can be supported from the opposition and grow, and that citizens value it. Try it, just as they grow; try to negotiate budgets. [[Applauds]] And speaking of political instability, of course those who cannot give lessons here, Mr Tardà, are you. You have left the Generalitat with more than 70 billion debt; 70 billion debt, rescued by the Autonomic Liquidity Fund. They've left the Generalitat in ruin. And on top of that you come here to give lessons, which are half the autonomous debt of Spain? You who have ruined the Catalan economy? You've run almost three thousand businesses and thousands of jobs? [[Rumors]] Are you going to come up here to cheer us up to those of us who defend democracy? No, you are not even coups, you have tried to strike democracy, but you have not succeeded because Spanish democracy is much stronger than you. So don't worry, they'll never make it. [[Applauds]] They should be asking for forgiveness for the thousands of jobs that are being lost in Catalonia. They should be asking for forgiveness from the entire tourism sector that is losing revenue because of it. They should be asking forgiveness, by the way, of families harassed and targeted by their separatist commandos, children of civilian guards on the street. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. In thirty minutes he had here he did not think to apologize for all the damage he has done to Catalonia. Do you know who anti-Cathalan is? Whoever's hurting Catalonia. Do you know who hurt Catalonia? You guys. [[Mrs. Capella i Farré: You, you]] No one else in history has done more harm to Catalonia than you. [[Applauds]] So not only do they try to form a government, they form a democratic government that respects the majority of Catalans and does not signal to the families we disagree with separatism. Nationalism cannot be pointing to families in Catalonia. They can't go stalking the children of the civilian guards. You cannot go around, point out and paint the houses of those who defend democracy. [[Protests]] I still hope that you will condemn those commands and not protect them. I hope they go up to this rostrum to say that they are against violence and not in favour, legitimizing all those who cut roads, burn containers or harass the mossos or the police. I still hope you'll come up to this rostrum. They're in time not to embarrass us with an absolutely undemocratic position, so whenever they want. This Parliament is so democratic that the groups that have tried to strike democracy are sitting here. This Parliament is like this. Spain is a very democratic country because you have a parliamentary group, speaking time, subsidies, public salaries and, despite that, you do not even think of asking for forgiveness for the damage you have done. We will take good note of that because, of course, if one day it is up to us to govern, it does not have the slightest doubt that in the face of nationalism or half a palm and in the face of those who want to harass the majority of Catalans or half a step back. We're going to defend democracy. [[Applauds]] It is precisely because of all this that I say to you, Mr Montoro, that I also ask the Government, please, not to give the coupsmen half an argument. I am saying this because you, with the battle you have with Judge Llarena, and in this case with the Civil Guard, with the contradictions you show in public, only strengthen them. There's news yesterday that the truth is it's almost surreal. [[Shows a Title of Reason]] It says: Puigdemont will bring Montoro's words to the German court. Mr. Montoro, please, one thing is to be reckless and another is to say according to what things. You are being the main argument of Puigdemont and Junqueras to say that there is no misappropriation. Can you perhaps recognize that there has been, as Minister Dastis said the other day in the Senate? Would you recognize that yes, that you have escaped, that you have deceived them or that you do not control the accounts sufficiently? It cannot be that you, to defend yourself as a minister, are harming the interests of Spain. Mr Montoro, take advantage of the rostrum, since you also have a speech-free turn, to defend that because it seems to me very serious that you are using, those who have tried to strike, the words of the government. Mr Rajoy said here in the rostrum that he had not dedicated a euro to the coup. Well, according to the Civil Guard, 3.4 million euros. According to Judge Llarena, there are indications of misappropriation. According to Mr Dastis, yesterday he said 1.5 million in Diplomat and foreign policy. We have learned that they have paid up to the trips of 47 alleged international observers of an illegal referendum with public money. What have you been controlling since September 15th? Mr Montoro, we support these budgets, we support the Government in implementing the 155, we support the investiture and I ask you, precisely with legitimacy for all this, to explain here what is happening in that black hole of the 155 because no one can understand that you are defending the same as Mr Puigdemont says. Therefore, please explain to us - we have asked for your appearance, but you have the opportunity to do so now - why you are defending that where it seems obvious, by evidence showing that there was embezzlement of funds, you are saying no. Because it's very strange that you say the same thing as Junqueras and Mr. Puigdemont in this. Mr Montoro, I would ask you - it is a very serious matter and we have asked for your appearance - to take advantage of this rostrum. We are going to support the budgets and in that we are loyal to the agreement we have in Spain, but please explain that to us because there are many Spaniards hallucinating why Mr Rajoy or Mr Montoro are being tested by Mr Puigdemont in a trial in Germany. So something's going on. Either someone's lying or someone's been digging something or somebody's been missing something. I hope that the Government will explain to us in this rostrum, before voting on these budgets, what we are talking about. Finally, these are good news budgets for the middle class, they are budgets that give financial and economic stability and we comply with our European partners because for the first time the deficit is fulfilled after ten years. They are budgets that manage to increase social items such as pensions, the decrease of IRPF to the mileurists, I have repeated to them some of these issues, but they are also budgets that give political stability because at this time Spain, beyond acronyms and parties, has to have political stability for the challenges it has. We have a challenge against nationalism, a challenge of reforms in education, in the labour market, in justice, in the public administration. Spain does not work as we would like some, Spain still has many shortcomings, but despite the shortcomings, precisely in order not to put more sticks on the wheels we have to carry out these budgets. So we, because there are parties negotiated with Citizens, because they are good news for the Spaniards, because there is political and financial stability, we will support these budgets, hoping that the legislature can be fruitful, really, because when you get things that we have defended, it goes well with the Spaniards and we also go well with Citizens. Therefore, we will not be fooled, if this legislature is fruitful it will be good news for the Spaniards. If we do not comply with the investiture pacts, ministers, if we do not comply with democratic regeneration, this legislature will drift away. Therefore, I ask you, just as we have negotiated the budgets, to comply with...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u9	Mr. Rivera, you're way out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u10	I'm done, President. I ask you to comply with all the points of the investiture pact. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the citizens for their political position on the government's initiative to introduce the draft budget law. The draft budget law is an exclusive initiative of the Governments and this initiative is carried out in conjunction with the other political groups, it is being developed in the negotiation by those agreements that gave rise to the investiture. We are developing the results of the investment agreements at each of the stages where the government's initiatives brought to this House materialize and unfold. In this regard, I must welcome and welcome the position of Citizens in defence of political stability. Stability is essential for two main reasons. Firstly, because of the exceptional situation in Spain in terms of the institutional crisis caused by the former authorities of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which, as I had the opportunity to explain yesterday, ruined Catalonia. By the way, some of the political formations are repeated in the ruin of Catalonia; every time they govern Catalonia they leave it worse than before, which has its merit. It has its merit and it is necessary to recognize to each one its quality; nothing happens to recognize it and say: I have been twice the Government of Catalonia and to each one worse I have left it, to each one worse I have left the finances of that autonomous community and to each one worse I have left the possibilities of economic growth and job creation in Catalonia. That is why we had enough debate yesterday, and we also had debate on the contents of these General State Budgets for Catalonia. The second reason why political stability in Spain is so important is precisely to strengthen economic recovery and job creation, so that we can say - as I emphasized yesterday in my presentation - that this is the budget that returns the efforts of the past to the Spaniards. But, above all, what it returns and distributes are precisely the capacities that give economic growth and job creation to citizens. The budget, moreover, is the one that has the most operational possibilities to return it to the citizens. I would therefore like to make it clear that, indeed, with your bet and with the bet of the political groups which are going to reject the amendments in full this morning, we are going to get through this procedure and then get into the process of amendments. Of course, I also agree with Mr Rivera's criticism of the lack of cause of the groups that continue to insist on rejecting these budgets. In short, they are saying no to budgetary stability, they are saying no to improving the income of 13 million people, they are saying no to improving the financing of our welfare state and they are saying no why? Well, why not. That is the real cause, a terrible way of understanding what the role of the opposition should be in a democracy; an opposition that has to have government control but also has the responsibility to support those key elements so that we can finally overcome the legacy of the economic crisis. We therefore welcome the agreements and, in particular, with Citizens, but what citizens have to recognize is that we have greatly improved those agreements. If we had closed these budgets by the end of September, we would have agreed on different elements from those we have now incorporated into the agreements we have reached. Nothing more and nothing less than if we had closed the agreements in September would be the rise in pensions that we have now established, when we have had the opportunity to do so. In politics, Mr Rivera, we also have to make virtue of the need, and we have done so; we have done so once we have closed the 2017 exercise with the goal of a fulfilled public deficit, since at the end of the summer of 2017 we were not sure that we have fulfilled it today with such rigour, precision and accuracy. Therefore, at that time we could not have addressed contents and agreements, such as the improvement of these pensions, which we are moving forward in this initiative of new General State Budgets. Therefore, you do not know to what extent I welcome Mr Rivera's rise to this rostrum - because this is the first time he has done so - and say that the public deficit target is being met. The truth is, I missed him. You are a politician who prodigates a lot everywhere, in the media, every day speaks a lot - everyone has his style, I'm telling you what you do -; I see him every day, in the morning, in the afternoon, in the evening, and if I'm not going to sleep early he is able to appear in some sports chat, because I'm sure he likes football - everyone has his style - since it's the first time I've heard him talk about the importance of achieving the deficit target, the first time. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] You have come this morning to celebrate the end of the cuts, but if you supported the 2017 budget!, where was the end of the cuts? In 2016, 2017, 2018? [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, total public spending has been rising in our country since 2014 and 2015. [[Show a chart]] Expenditure on social benefits has not fallen, there has not been a need for citizens to really raise expenditure on social benefits. [[Applauds]] EUR 50 billion has been raised, EUR 50 billion since 2007. I tell you because this is a fragmented and new House and when you are new you also have to have that touch of humility of being the new one. [[Rumors]] Life is like this; I have at least tried to do so at all stages, both professional and academic and, of course, political, of my life. Therefore, Citizens has not come to end the cuts, because the cuts ended long before the arrival of Citizens, of the arrival of Podemos ; well, Podemos is already infinite, that is, We can say that there are still cuts, of course, because the day that there are no cuts... [[applause]] Why don't you read some numbers from time to time, besides using the board they showed us yesterday? You may say that the rise in public spending in our country is insufficient, okay, but there is a rise in public spending and there is a rise in social spending in our country, but there has also been a fall in taxes, Mr Rivera, since 2015 and 2016, EUR 12.3 billion, that is so. But if it's measured, it's quantified!, it's the biggest tax drop in our democracy. We were already a government and when we lowered the income tax in 2003, we dropped €3 billion; now, more recently, in two years, in 2015 and 2016, we have lowered the income tax to the Spaniards - and, moreover, very equitably - more than €8 billion, exactly €86 billion. It's the biggest drop in our history. You take my late statements. Look, I'm trying to talk little, but I assure you, I'm going to talk less and less, seriously. [[Laughter and applause]] You can be quiet. Of course, they take a couple of statements from seven months ago and make a summary: Mr. Montoro discards... First of all, discarding is a word that does not appear in my language in politics, because, truth, discarding, discarding in politics, Mr Rivera, discarding, discarding, you can rule out little, except being faithful to the principles. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] And we had an opportunity to talk about democratic principles and values yesterday. Did you, who listened to my words, hear any doubt about what the government's position has been? I'll tell you more. Today, Catalonia remains Spain for the action of the People's Party government, supported by Citizens and supported by the Socialist Party in implementation of 155. [[applause]] Let us no longer confuse anyone else, because we are giving feet to those who should not give them, let us not confuse them. I'd beg you to read my interviews. Look, I do one each I don't know how much; I promise not to do any more in what I have left of political life. [[Laughter]] I commit myself from this rostrum, because they don't read them. [[Laughter]] They don't read them and they go to the headlines of what the other headline says of the other headline and, listen, you have to read them once in a while. [[Laughter and applause]] We live in a time when you have to read, it's a little heavy to do, but you have to read because if you don't, you end up trusting what the other one says. I insist, this is the time we live in and we have to read what I said in an interview - the last - in The World. Where do I say there's no fake billing? I'm saying otherwise, there may be bill fraud. I'm saying it in that interview. How come there's not going to be bill falsification? There may be, of course I do! But who said no? Of course, in any administrative procedure. [[Rumors]] Do you know what an administrative procedure is? Well, you don't know, don't say yes! How will you know if you have never been in charge of any direct management? How will you know what an administrative procedure is? [[Consent of Mr. Rivera Díaz]] [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Let us therefore speak with property and make no mistake. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I insist, I will make it clear: Catalonia is not independent for the actions of the Government of Spain, and then comes the actions of justice, and then comes the preventive actions and investigations, then by that order. But if we had not done Catalonia's intervention, the intervention of the accounts, the separatists would have had hundreds of millions of euros in their hands and had not. They didn't! And if they have falsified, they will have to answer for it, to see if we already know at once what this process is. [[Applauds]] It's not hard, is it? It's not hard to understand or value it. It is not difficult, because it seems that there are those who are not interested in it and we must say it with all clarity and with all roundness. That is why the Government of Spain is acting from the very beginning. And of course there may be imperfections in a government procedure! And of a state security force and of an action of justice. Or are we all perfect? [[Rumors]] He speaks one and seems to speak the oracle of divinities... [[Applauds]] That's not democracy. That's typical of dictatorial regimes. Democracy is the discrepancies; the discrepancy and the division of powers, and that is what we are really doing in a democracy. Of course, the Government of the People's Party, the Government of President Rajoy in the face of an institutional crisis like the one he is experiencing, is doing from the very beginning what he is doing: exercising control. Of course there may be imperfections in that control, which is what is being investigated now. That Mr. Montoro is going to be used by Mr. Puigdemont, that was fantastic! [[Laughter.-Applause.]] Mr Puigdemont has every reason to be concerned about Mr Montoro. Of course I do. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] He's got all the reasons, all the reasons! It's just, really, what one has to listen to! Because if we don't, we don't make clear in this country what everyone is and what we're doing. And you don't know what the reasons are? That we are exercising our role, the institutional role we have as the Government of Spain, and we are doing so naturally. And do you know what I'm also saying, Mr. Rivera, quite clearly, as I said yesterday, not to you, but to the spokesman for the Republican Left of Catalonia from this rostrum? The Government wished to return to normality, and normality was compliance with the law, and the Government was to ensure compliance with the law. That is the exercise of government, so let us not be mistaken. Let's not make any mistakes. We all have responsibilities. That's why I was telling Mr. Tardà. We are looking forward to the return of institutional normality to Spain. We're looking forward to sewing up what's broken up. We are looking forward to overcoming confrontations, divisions. We are looking forward to avoiding those who are trying to take us to the abyss. There's not going to be an abyss. There's not going to be an abyss, we don't want to strain, it's the opposite. Who's interested in political tension? No one. Countries are built from coexistence, from plurality and Spain is a diverse, pluralistic country, so this democracy is made that recognizes diversity and plurality from its origin, from its birth. That is democracy in Spain and that is what this government is trying to develop faithfully. Those are their principles and values. A press, to sell a newspaper, will be able to headline in that way - I have already said I don't know how many times -, I don't know if with that it will sell more, I don't know if with that it will sell more, but there they are, there they are with those headlines! Ours, those of a sensible and reasonable government, must be sewing, sewing wounds, just as we are trying to sewing the wounds of the crisis. When there is an economic crisis, the social wounds resulting from that economic crisis must be sewn, and when there is an institutional crisis, the wounds resulting from that institutional crisis must be sewn. That is what needs to be done to repair, to replace, so that, in this case, Catalonia will again be the engine of that Spain that I was talking about yesterday, as are the other territories of Spain. [[Applauds]] That is what we want to do from the People's Party Government, and I am sure that we have your cooperation in that regard. Is that what you wanted to hear this morning? Well, I'd be happy to have responded to your request. We are going to bring in this budget very good news, very good news that we call economic, but that is not news of figures, it is news for 13 million people, it is news that we agree with Citizens and other political groups in this House. I am now referring to the spokesman for Citizens and I have to thank the attitude, I insist, because with that attitude of making these budgets viable we are positively favouring 13 million people and their families directly; but we are doing more, we are favouring a major job creation in our country. Today, in terms of the labour force survey, we see how in the first quarter of this year, in relation to the same quarter of the previous year, there is a very large job creation, 436 000 more occupied in one year. All this shows that we are in the right direction to close the worst of the injuries that has been the loss of jobs from that crisis. We are in the right direction so that this social fracture of the economic crisis can be overcome definitively throughout this legislature. This legislature, which still has to go through, is going to be the legislature of employment, occupation and increase of public expenditure in a reasonable way so that our public services, our welfare services, our pensions and our pensioners are favored by economic recovery and by the creation of employment and so that in this way this great objective of definitively overcoming the crisis and its legacy, its consequences, is the way to save the cooperation, the contribution of the different citizens who shape and inhabit the territories of Spain. We need to co-ordinate Spain in this legislature and, therefore, we need important agreements, and it would help to co-ordinate Spain with an autonomous financing agreement, it would help to co-ordinate Spain with a local financing agreement, it would help to co-ordinate Spain with that autonomous financing to ensure that the new resources would finance basic social benefits. Citizens, of course, do not govern, but they support many autonomous governments and therefore have the capacity to exert direct influence on the budgets of these autonomous governments, so that they can devote the new resources to health, education and social welfare. It is therefore clear that it is also their responsibility as a political group that is supporting Governments in several autonomous communities and, in addition, Governments with different political signs and, consequently, have the capacity to influence the content of the budgets of these truly high Governments. I'm done, Madam President. I insist, I am grateful for the willingness of Citizens to support the budget of the People's Party Government. I am grateful for Citizens' willingness to support Spain's political stability as a better guarantee of consolidating the end of our country's economic recovery and institutional stability, and I am grateful, finally, for the opportunity given me by Mr Rivera to explain the position of the Government and that of the Minister of Finance in relation to certain headlines - there they - but let's not make headline policy, let's talk seriously about content policy, which is what citizens really expect from us. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u13	Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor at the turn of the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u14	Thank you, President. Mr. Montoro, first of all, if you see me a lot at best it's not even real, it's nightmares, because you're obsessed with Citizens. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] [[Rumors]] Don't rule it out. I see and read according to what your things in The World also think they're nightmares, but they're true. I will read you the literal - not the headlines - of what you, Spain's finance minister, said, among many other pearls in that interview. Mr. Montoro says: I don't know what money - it's no joke, this is literally said by Mr. Montoro - those Chinese ballot boxes were paid for on October 1st, nor did the maintenance of Puigdemont, but what I do know is that it wasn't done with public money. [[Rumors]] What are we left with, Mr. Montoro? You say in the interview a few days ago in El Mundo that it wasn't made with public money and now you come here to say that maybe there are fake bills, that maybe in the procedure... [[Rumors]] Mr. Montoro, do one thing. You said here you're not going to do any more interviews. Well, Mr. Llarena will thank you and so will the Civil Guard. Don't do any more interviews. [[Applauds]] What I am going to read to you is said in Parliament. In August you repeated three times in the Commission, on the question of our group - three times - that you were saying that not one euro of public money would be allocated to the separatist coup in Catalonia. You said it three times, you're in the Journal of Sessions, Mr. Montoro. I wish they were invented headlines. By the way, you don't kill journalists or the press. Are you blaming the interviewing journalists for your words? I know that some people are annoyed by freedom of the press, but article 20 of the Constitution implies the exercise of a fundamental right. [[Rumors]] Therefore, instead of blaming journalists, bite your tongue before you say things that benefit the separatist cause. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u16	You said, Mr Montoro, that we must be faithful to the principles. A great day to talk about principles, after what we saw yesterday, about the horn of your party that we saw yesterday; a little day to talk about principles! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I don't know if you're referring to the principles of illegally saving videos to play dirty game with your party mates. Of course, we do not share those principles. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] On the other hand, speaking of tax cuts, do you know what the biggest tax cuts you have made during your terms of office have been? The tax amnesty for the corrupt. That was the biggest tax drop you've ever made. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, the Spaniards have paid a tax amnesty that you gave to your friends: Mr Rato, Mr Bárcenas, the Pujol. These gentlemen are the only tax beneficiaries of a decade in Spain; it was about time we made a drop in the IRPF. We all remember Mr Rajoy in 2011 in an electoral campaign with an absolute majority telling the Spaniards that he was going to lower taxes and to the fifteen days of ruling them up. It's okay. You say you have to be pragmatic, of course, but don't tell me here that you are the ones who have lowered taxes, when the only ones who have seen real tax cuts in recent years have been your friends, the corrupt tax amnesty. That was not the tax reduction we wanted, but the current one, which lowers taxes to those who do not arrive at the end of the month, to those who are below EUR 18 000. Mr. Montoro, the phrase in the carrots is not the fault of the journalist who took your phrase, but of you, who said it. You like to say many things and then repent, and I suppose your government too - I am convinced that Mr Rajoy will also like what you have said that you are not going to do any more interviews - but you have to be consistent with your words in this case. You haven't explained here what happened on October 1st with public money. He said in August that no euro was going to be allocated to this issue, he did it again later; Mr Rajoy said that on 7 February in response to a question from this spokesman: not a euro. Instead of being emboldened and saying no euro, would it not be more consistent to say: I do not know, as these gentlemen have deceived me, as we have not controlled the public accounts well? But man, they've paid up to the trips of supposed international observers, there's even TV3 bills on public television! That they didn't set up a financial plot in the Bahamas, it's that they did it with public television! [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Montoro, you have missed the opportunity to speak out on what you said the other day, which you stated in that interview: that you do not know how you had paid but not with public money. You're gonna look into that, you're gonna come over here to explain it. I hope that the President of the Government will also speak on this issue because it is very important. Don't have the slightest doubt, we are absolutely convinced that you had to intervene the accounts of the Generalitat, so much so that we supported you at joint feet, so much so that when you called us... It's that it bothers you until we support you, it's amazing! [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Applauds]] Yes, yes, when Mr. Rajoy called us to tell us that he was going to intervene the accounts, we supported him; when Mr. Montoro asked us, we supported him; in the Senate, we supported him; and here we adopted a resolution to support them. I know they don't like that we supported them, that they would have liked it to be the Socialist Party, but it was us. [[Rumors and Protests]] No, no, when we made the resolution here the Socialist Party did not support them. In any case, no matter what, we have supported them to control the accounts, to implement the Constitution, and we have the legitimacy to ask them to continue doing so and not to have a black hole in Catalonia. So, Mr Montoro, I too am very glad that you have rectified, that you have accepted that carrots do not take place at the end of the legislature, that they are not carrots but that it is the money of the Spaniards and it is yours, from your pocket. I thank you for having changed your policies and that you have gone from cutting and raising taxes to doing the opposite, to raising paternity permits, to approving this salary supplement for young people, who did not approve in 2017 and who have committed themselves to doing so in 2018. I deeply appreciate that you - because you need our seats - have changed your policy. This is a pact, a pact is to give in and a pact is to change. And you have had to change your policy of absolute majority for a different policy; that is the good news for the Spaniards, that you are no longer alone, that you have to govern, for the moment, with Citizens and in the future the Spaniards will decide who rules and with which majorities. I'm done, President. I think these are good budgets. It is a pity that the Socialist Party is still in the no. That's how it goes. In any case, at least the majority of this House should carry out budgets that are good for the Spaniards, that are good for Spain and above all that at such a delicate moment give a symptom of the strength of this House, despite the political discrepancies. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u17	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u18	Thank you, Madam President. In the interview you're referring to, it's okay, if I always rectify, Mr. Rivera. I have never heard you rectify, but I have come to ask how many times I apologize to all the Spaniards in this House because I have been forced to propose tax increases. What's going on in politics? You say, "When you ask for forgiveness... I have personally done so many times throughout my political life, of course, I have asked for forgiveness because sometimes a ruler has to make priority approaches, which he would not like to do, for the general interest. That is what we have had to do in this country to bring certain things forward. In that interview - which is not an interview but a joint drafting -, when Montoro is called upon to promise the Spaniards that not a single euro has gone into the process since the Treasury intervened autonomy, he replies that this could only have happened for a crime of falsification - if I speak of a crime of falsification in the interview - of an official shelled with some supplier of the cause. Therefore, there is a judicial investigation underway, I say in the interview and add here: judicial investigations that are supported and promoted by the Ministry of Finance and Public Service. But misappropriation requires not only diversion of funds but also the use of public premises... I'm saying it in the interview. One cannot stay in one part when I am saying in the interview that there may be a crime, that a judicial investigation is being carried out and that the Government is not collaborating, it is pushing it. That's the reality of things. Why did we intervene in Generalitat's accounts? Because we were exercising prior control, and again you take words from the end of August, when those two laws so manifestly illegal, the law of disconnection and the law of referendum, had not been passed in the Parliament of Catalonia. That's what we explained yesterday. From there, I receive a letter from the previous vice president, in charge of the Finance and Economics, in which he tells me that he is subject to those laws and exempt from control. What does the government have to do? To intervene; to intervene as it has never intervened in the accounts of an autonomous community. They are completely blocked; all payments are completely blocked. Is this an exceptional situation? Of course it's an exceptional situation. What does the government want? Get out of the exceptional situation, return to institutional normality. That is what the Government wants and what I believe is right for Catalans, whether they are separatists or not, and for the rest of the Spanish in relation to the Catalans as a whole. That's what we want: to build. [[Applauds]] Then everyone will be responsible for their actions in different areas, but we want to overcome situations. But he has also said something uncertain, because the Socialist Party supported this intervention of the accounts. When I appeared in this House - because many interviews I do not do, but to appear, I constantly appear in this House - I had the acceptance, the explicit support of the Socialist Party; in that appearance I explained the intervention, the complete control of payments over the Generalitat of Catalonia and I had the support of Citizens and the Socialist Party; of course I had it. Let's get to the point because I want to take this opportunity to explain myself, although I assure you that I sleep very quietly, that does not disturb me. Don't worry about nightmares because it doesn't make me any, I assure you. I have the peace of mind. I work so that in Spain we can have a bill like the one we have brought to this House today, for which we work, and I believe you too. Can we work for a bill like this to come to the House? Obviously not. He's working the other way around. [[Laughter]] Or don't you work for the other way around? This is democracy and what it does is very legitimate. But the essence, the substance of Podemos is not that there is economic recovery and job creation, it is not, it does not suit them politically. What we're going to turn it around for, it's not good for them, and that's why they deny until recovery, even the international credibility of Spain. But the foundations of political stability are absolutely basic but from recognition and mutual respect, which are fundamental. Above all, we must not err and seek the political wear and tear of those who must be active partners in a project that unites us, which is to promote economic recovery, job creation and unity in peace, coexistence and tolerance in our country, in Spain. This brings together a majority in this House, which is why the criticism of the Socialist Party: how can the Socialist Party reject these budgets, at least abstain! Withdraw the amendment as a whole at least and then let's talk; we need to talk. How are we not going to talk together about what I was saying: looking for these great agreements in autonomous financing, in local financing, in the Toledo Pact! If we have to talk because it is very important that we bring together wills, that we create criteria, that we bring together objectives. And then each one, I told you, we're something else, just missing. If you are socialist and we are center right! We're something else. Sometimes they try to confuse us; no, we don't confuse each other; we have different conceptions of society, but that doesn't mean that at a certain point we shouldn't - and we can - reach agreements. In fact, genuinely important agreements are being reached in this legislature: agreements with the public service unions; agreements with the municipalities, which we want to project later. So, let's look for agreements from that difference. That is why I was telling you, Mr Rivera, to help us convince the Socialist Party, because we are a minority government and they have other priorities that are sometimes unclear. But this budget is, acknowledge it, neutral enough to come and insist this morning in this House. There are amendments to the whole of the Podemos Group, but how am I going to ask them that? I do not dare to ask Mr. Iglesias to exercise his leadership, to convince his economic, budgetary spokespersons to vote for it. Neither did the United Left, Mr. Garzón, who likes to value, boast - and did so yesterday with great emphasis - of being a young communist. It is in all its right to be so, of course, but I want to say that it makes no sense to ask them; however, with the Socialist Party we must look for those elements of coincidence and we must do so now because it is necessary, it is good, to give stability to our country and that political stability is that which is the foundation of economic recovery, it reinforces the image of Spain, of a Spain in which in such a plural House, with so much ideological diversity, we can understand each other in the fundamental sense. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u19	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u20	Jaun-andreak, on. Good morning. The circumstances surrounding the debate on this budget, the political moment that we are experiencing, the tensions that at the political level in general, but in Catalonia in particular, surround today, the precariousness of government stability, the economic situation - all this - makes my speech to be atypical today; they will allow me to go beyond mere economic-budgetary discussion. The application of article 155 constitutes a legal excess for the Basque Nationalist Party which should never have been reached and which, instead of providing solutions, has created more problems. Beyond its very existence, which we already disagree with in the constitutional discussion, its implementation has been carried out to respond to a situation and to implement mechanisms for which it was never conceived. The position of the Basque Nationalist Party has been contrary to its application and remains so. Our political action from the very beginning has been and will continue to be aimed at ensuring that it ceases to be in force. That's the goal. Since the recognition of parallelism in the national demands of Catalonia and Euskadi our thinking has always been directed towards adopting the same attitude towards Catalonia that we would take if 155 had been applied in the Basque Autonomous Community or in Navarre: from our responsibility as an organization and towards our people our efforts would be aimed at recovering our own institutions as soon as possible; we would not lose a minute so that the Basque institutions would be in the hands of their legitimate institutions, led from the country, not from Madrid. We cannot conceive of another attitude, consistent with our ideology. That is also the tenor of the statements of the Catalan political leaders, who publicly affirm, all of them, to pursue this objective and have conjured themselves to elect a Government before 22 May. We agree. We want for Catalonia exactly what we would like for our people. The Basque Nationalist Party has had to make far-reaching decisions throughout its history. We have done so in the face of intransigences from Spanish governments, media pressures and one-person leadership. With that goal in mind, any policy aimed at prolonging the implementation of article 155 will have the opposition of the Basque Nationalist Party. To this - we said from the beginning - our efforts are directed and therefore we will not allow those who seek opposite objectives to abuse our good faith. We won't be used by anyone. The final approval of these accounts will probably depend on the vote of the Basque Nationalist Party. The Basque Nationalist Party, faithful to its word, has not yet entered into negotiations with the Spanish Government on the budget and has done so with the will to give time to find a political solution in Catalonia. This has led to a delay in the Government's submission of the proposed budgets, which should have taken place in September. I repeat, until the day before this plenary debate there have been no budgetary talks. Our vote will therefore be decisive, in all probability, in the final fate of this budget and the meaning of that vote will depend on three circumstances. The first is the attitude taken with regard to the lifting of Article 155 and the opening of a time for political negotiation in Catalonia, a framework from which only a solution can be found. Yesterday's mention by the President of the Government of the opening of a new stage of political dialogue is absolutely timely. The repeal of Article 155 in Catalonia after the election of a new Government must be immediate. Its extension, even with the proclamation of a new Generalitat, as demanded by various political and media sectors, would lead to our final negative vote on these accounts. We will be attentive to the development of events and to the attitude of each and every political actor concerned in order to achieve the earliest elimination of the existence of Article 155 in Catalonia. I insist, the attitude of each and every one, and that attitude will condition our final decision. Secondly, we will need to reach a satisfactory agreement to respond to the necessary claims on pensions. We are aware that the measures to be taken in a budget do not ensure the viability of the social security system in the future. To this end, it is essential that an agreement be reached within the framework of the Toledo Pact that, from the initial discrepancy between the parties, will lay the foundations for the stability of the system for the coming years, ensuring decent pensions. However, the loss of purchasing power produced in recent years, together with the prospects for economic improvement that are discerned on the horizon, make a number of urgent decisions essential that reverse the loss of purchasing power and ensure an adequate social climate. The measures proposed by the Government in its budget proposal are not sufficient, in our view. Therefore, without implying any future indexation, it is necessary that, maintaining the measures and percentages proposed in the budget project for minor pensions, in addition, from 1 January 2018 there is a revaluation to the CPI of the rest of the pensions, all being updated again in early 2019 on the basis of the CPI. It is also necessary to delay the entry into force of the sustainability factor to 2023 instead of being in January 2019 so that we gain time so that a consensus decision can be taken in the Toledo Pact. Finally, it is necessary to raise the widow's pension to 56% of the regulatory base in 2018 and 60% in 2019. That is what the streets, pensioners and trade unions demand, claims that we have made and that the Government has accepted. This will therefore be the substance of our amendment and we will be attentive to its implementation. I'm glad to hear this was about the mobilizations. I'll tell them yes, but in addition to mobilizations, someone has to listen to them and support them. Any of you, any of you, could have demanded it from the government, but no one except the PNV has. Any other party could have agreed, some even have votes for themselves to decide majorities, but they haven't, it has had to be a small party, like the PNV, which has succeeded. And no, Mr Garzón, this change of government has not, as you said yesterday, taken place by magic; it has been possible by PNV. And we have done so benefiting all the citizens of the State. Yesterday he called the offices of the Basque Group in Congress a citizen of Ferrol thanking him, saying that he sent me a hug and that we helped the AVE to arrive in his city. I give back my hug to that Ferralian citizen, and as for the EVA, I'll tell him that at the PNV we do the hard thing and the impossible we try, but let's first see if he gets to Euskadi at once. In short, we try to make policy in the most virtuous sense of the term. Finally, speaking of these three basic pillars for our possible acceptance of the budget, thirdly, an agreement should be reached on matters related to the Basque Agenda for Competitiveness and Improvement of the Economy so that the final vote of the PNV on these accounts is affirmative. Our negative vote on the amendments to the draft budget as a whole today ensures the possible fulfilment of the three conditions that I have previously set, thus achieving time to achieve all of them. The same possibility of dropping budgets today exists in the approval procedure on 23 and 24 May. Always, but at the moment we live longer, every party has to wonder about the consequences of political behaviour on decision-making. It is clear that the procedure we are facing today is not much less baladi. That today's budget should be out of line with today's vote must have varied consequences, but no one can escape that one of them could be the call for early elections. If the budget project fell into this pitch, who would benefit? Get the fuck out of here! Who is interested in an uncertain electoral process right now? The PSOE has said literally several times by the mouth of its secretary general that it prefers 2018 to run without any kind of election appointment. April 4th. And it literally says so: because that would be good for the political stability of the country, which has been calling citizens to the polls for five consecutive years. For my part, I understand that the tense internal situation of your party also has something to do with it. Speaking of complicated internal situations, is it really right for Podemos right now, surrounded by episodes of internal dissent and with the low-level polls, an electoral call? Is it right for the Catalan parties to call again at the polls to confront a government that, if the polls are carried out, could be even more hostile than the current one towards the Catalan nationalists? As far as Citizens are concerned, I have more doubts, though not as much as the ones that must now corrode Mr Rivera's bowels. With so much upward survey, what to do? Is it better to bring about an election by letting the government down or is it better to wait for the situation to become even more urgent for the PP and to achieve a secure overpass? What a doubt! What a doubt! Neither is Hamlet! It is not surprising that he was put on long teeth when he believed that the PNV was negotiating the competence of social security or prisons, it does not matter that they are competences of the autonomous community included in an organic law. What a magnificent opportunity to buzz the president with the excuse of unacceptable transfers to the insatiable and sectarian Basque nationalists and thus be able to flaunt his word of approval of the budget! Hence his tweets and statements: insolidarities and privileges. But often chasco, it turns out that the Basques have agreed on the general rise of pensions, something that Citizens did not raise. Farewell to the foolishness of insolidity. As I guess, you don't have much future, actually, Mr. Rivera. By the way, in the function of augur of insolidarity another visionary has accompanied him, but he was forgotten to change the speech written the day before, I mean Don Segundo González, of Podemos. Both he and Mr Saura used the word coupon again. I am sure that your voters in Euskadi and Navarra will not be able to do any grace that will make you too frivolous with the subject. Go with the Socialist Party federalists and the Plurinationals of Podemos! Finally, a reference person in the world of communication said this week: I think we need to change the government; the problem is to know who to change it for. With respect to the budget, and changing from a third, I must first of all make it clear that those investments that appear in it referred to Euskadi are merely compliance with the 2017 agreements. That, no more or less. On the other hand, it can be said that, without doubt, they are expansionary budgets, drawn up in a more favourable economic environment, based on an economic growth, with a more balanced pattern than before the crisis, but we still understand that they must look more strategically at the risks in the medium and long term: interest rate increases, oil prices, geopolitical tensions. The Spanish economy, which has been growing for the past four years, shows positive changes that are approaching the long-awaited change in the productive model as a factor of growth, as the distribution between internal and external demand is more balanced. In this regard, it has been observed that the volume of exports of goods and services has increased and that the current account balance has recorded a positive balance in 2017. Despite the fact that we are seeing a significant increase in exports in general and a rebound in equipment, we believe that the proposed budgets presented need to focus more on industrial and energy policies that lead to a change in the productive model as a factor of productivity, a key factor in increasing wages. In this respect, I would like to reflect on R & D+i policies, of which, although there is an increase in the budget - in the civil part of the budget, of 5.38 % - the fact is that the appropriations earmarked for appropriations are increased, and it is not only the increase in the budget, which is also, but also the analysis of the efficiency of those appropriations, that companies do not ask for the appropriations earmarked for R & D+i policies in which the Government increases its appropriations year by year, so that the convergence of demand-driven needs with those driven by the advances in scientific and technological supply generated is not possible. Spain is the first power in scientific publications, but what needs to be transferred to the productive system is that strength to promote applied research, which requires greater connection between companies, universities and R & D centres. In short, public spending must also give the private sector, businesses, an impetus. The macroeconomic table presented in the State General Budgets for 2018 forecasts growth of 2.7%, in line with the estimates of the main Spanish and international analysts and agencies. As far as budgeted revenue is concerned, despite the fact that every year there is a doubt about its increase and collection, this year the revenues are backed by Airef, which considers them reasonable and, although there is some doubt about excise duties, the fact is that the data for the first few months put the collection at around 5%, close to the forecasts, and in addition everything points to a greater growth than expected in these General State Budgets, from 2.7% to 3% of the IMF. Despite the dynamism in job creation, an additional effort is needed to overcome some outstanding subjects, such as higher wage growth and better employment, as undefined contracts are growing slowly, while the practice of temporary jobs, with lower wages and lower social benefits, is still widespread and unemployment is reduced. At this point, we must recognize the existence of an improvement in the additional provision one hundred and sixth in terms of the flexibility of special rules for the destination of budgetary surpluses of the autonomous communities and cities with autonomy status, as has also been done for the municipalities by royal decree, which implies a flexibility of the rule of expenditure. We believe that we could go beyond this matter of the rule of spending for those who do things right; I repeat, for those who do things right. Much has been said about the planned expenditure in these budgets. For some they will remain restrictive budgets and for others the opposite, expansionary, but the truth is that there is an increase in expenditure so that now everyone tends to talk or that the increase is insufficient or to question its composition and distribution, when the really important thing is that this expenditure is geared to productivity, infrastructure and the improvement of public and social services. In short, we believe that by rejecting the amendments to this whole budget we are acting responsibly; responsibility by giving time to politics, of course, must be said. The other day Mr Saura said that as much as you like a part of a budget, if you vote in favour, you vote in favour of the whole budget. He's right, it's life and politics: you have to choose. And there are parts of this budget that we do not like and with which we do not agree, but it is that, following the same reasoning as Mr Saura, when we vote no to a budget, we also vote no to those parts that like one. Therefore, we all have the responsibility. I do not know what final decision we will take on the budgets or how this is going to develop, but it is true that the whole budget is voted on even if only one part likes it, as well as, when it is voted against, it is voted against the whole budget even though some parts seem very important to us. In short, and I conclude, we understand that by rejecting the amendments of this whole budget we are acting responsibly, with political responsibility, with responsibility towards the citizenry - which we listen to and try to deal with to the extent of our possibilities - and with responsibility in the search for stability in order to recover the tone of the economy. If it is confirmed by the plenary the rejection of the amendments in their entirety will begin the period of the partial amendments, a long period that will culminate next 24 May. I have explained our conditions before; we will be attentive and vigilant. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Esteban, I should like to welcome the fact that you, as spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, have finished your speech by saying that the vote against the full amendments to the State General Budgets for 2018 is primarily an exercise of political responsibility. That has value said by all the political groups in this House but especially expressed by the Basque Nationalist Party, which has the responsibility to govern the Basque Country. I am therefore pleased that this is the conclusion: first and foremost political responsibility. It is what is right for all Spaniards, it is what is right for Basques, and it is what makes it possible that in the Basque Country the objective that the lehendakari was set at the beginning of the current parliamentary term that the unemployment rate should be below 10% will be achieved freely because there is economic growth and because that economic growth, as you have stated, is healthier and more balanced - as I said during the presentation of the budgets - as it had never been before, very export-oriented economic growth. And all this has to do with the economic activity that is taking place in the Basque Country, which is making an excellent contribution to the fact that the whole balance of payments of Spain offers this balance so positive and necessary for the Basque Country itself but also for the Spanish economy, a contribution that, I insist, is absolutely key and fundamental. These premises of political stability are overcoming the differences and even the territorial aggravations that often occur with regard to a group representing a political formation that operates in a certain territory of Spain; often, I say, the other political territories read it as if it were an aggravation. To me it seems a huge mistake all this; when we are developing key infrastructures none of them ends up benefiting only the territory where they develop, but they benefit the whole; if not, it would be a limited connection in itself. Yesterday we had the opportunity to talk about the development of this great infrastructure in Catalonia, which already has all the capitals of provinces connected by AVE with the rest of Spain and, even so, a railway priority is being developed such as the Mediterranean corridor. Therefore, no one should see as a comparative aggravation that works of infrastructures are being developed that are necessary in a territory, but whose effects expand very clearly, and vertebrate what human relations come to be, because these infrastructures bring people closer to the place where they reside in Spain. [[The Lord]] The same is true when we are also proposing to promote the transport of, for example, the most distant territories of Spain, such as the Canary Islands, and when we are favouring, as we have already done in the previous budget, better connectivity with regard to prices and public subsidies in this type of displacement. With regard to the honourable Member's explanation for the increase in pensions, which is additional to the one already contained in the draft budget law, I have again seen holders who simplify it by saying that all pensions go up in this budget on 1.6. No, no, not all pensions rise to this percentage; the lowest pensions rise to 3, the next ones rise to 2 and the rest all rise to 1.6. I take this opportunity to clarify because we are not going back to modification and simplification, but the Government is clearly betting on a higher rise in lower pensions. I think it's fundamental. It is also a good thing that it is the Basque Nationalist Party that has reached agreement with the Spanish Government to make it possible to update the purchasing power for the entire public pension system. Yesterday I referred to the public pension system as the fundamental - without prejudice to others, but the fundamental - element of solidarity between citizens in Spain. That's the element. That is the element of intergenerational solidarity, of solidarity with those who do not have the capacity to generate income on their own. That is the key element of solidarity. So let us preserve that common good which is the public pension system now that we have the capacity because we have more resources derived from economic recovery. We must do it among all, among all! and, now, in particular, through the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party, to complete this rise in pensions and make it general. It seems to me that it is a great proposal, an excellent proposal that makes even less sense for the amendments to continue to be kept to the full because, I insist, some of them are what they are, but that the Socialist Party continue to keep it after such a rise in pensions in these budgets... Facilitate the partial amendments, withdraw the amendment as a whole and, from there, incorporate into agreements which you a priori are renouncing. The present and future of our public pension system must be defined within the framework of the Toledo Pact, which is already being developed in this House. It is not that the subcommission is open, but that it is advanced in its program. The PNV is an active element, it has already made clear its position on what the public pension system, contained in the Toledo Pact, should be, and we must all hope that that Toledo Pact will close its work as soon as possible, because it is essential that it be the social partners, trade unions and employers who are involved in defining what the immediate future of the public pension system should be. Therefore, this we are analysing today, the positive assessment we make of your proposal, which must be completed by 2019, and the contents of the system itself, we must deal with it in the Toledo Pact. We must conclude this work, and the Government's provision is that it can be approved or facilitated and that the measures arising from that Toledo Pact can enter into force, already exceeded this budget, in the following months of the year, so that they conform to a stable and fixed picture, in which we commit ourselves to eliminating the deficit of the public pension system within a period of not more than three or four years; that we turn what we are doing now, the contribution of the State to the public system, into an exceptional fact and that we define the conditions and characteristics of the continuity of that public pension system. Because we are not talking only - which is already very important - about the safety of current pensioners, but it concerns everyone, all citizens, also young people, that today, when such surveys are carried out, they seem to even doubt that they will receive a pension in the future. This is the bad climate that has been created again through a disorbited debate. In terms of public-social content, of course you are going to collect pensions!, you are going to collect pensions. We have to renew the contents of that Toledo Pact - I insist - as soon as possible, because I am sure that no one will oppose the proposal to raise pensions in the course of the partial amendments. Moreover, the PNV spokesman insists on the rule of spending, European governance, which has led us here, which has led us today to have this budgetary stability in the Basque Country, in many other autonomous communities and in the vast majority of the municipalities that are now in surplus; almost half of the total of the municipalities in Spain have no debt, which is a really solid financial situation. All this calls for us to aspire to meet the objectives of our correction of the public deficit, European governance, as quickly as possible because this is how we are strengthening economic recovery. We must not weigh the rules - which are rules of conduct, good urbanity, to understand ourselves - in the management of public finances; it must not be so. Because if we are convinced that budgetary stability is a primary good, we must enforce exactly those rules, which give scope for increasing expenditure in themselves, and therefore use them, give them completeness and shape the deficit target as an absolutely priority objective. As with the pensions I was saying, we are going to raise pensions in these budgets, which is not much less incompatible, but rather, on the contrary, we are going to correct and eliminate the social security deficit within a reasonable period of three to four years. That is why the work that awaits the Toledo Pact subcommission is so important, and of course the Government's commitment is that as soon as we reach agreement on the contents of that Toledo Pact subcommission to clarify, with regard to 2019, what will be the evolution of pensions and what are the elements that will ensure the balance and consolidation of the current system. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the amendments to the whole presented to the draft Law on General Budgets of the State for 2018. I have already told you that my group will vote against all of them for the reasons I shall try to explain in this speech. First of all, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Montoro and his entire team at the Ministry of Finance and Public Service on the work done over these months. In the People's Parliamentary Group we are proud of Mr Montoro's work and consider some of the considerations made these days to be terribly unfair. To Mr Rivera, who is not in the House but I hope you can read the Journal of Sessions, I propose a very simple exercise: you will review, Mr Rivera, what your service sheet is, yours, for the twelve years you have been on the front line of politics; it will not take you long. Consider now what Mr Montoro's service sheet is: it will take you a lot more. And since we are talking about the General Budgets of the State, I will tell you this: Mr Montoro has been a protagonist in fourteen General Budgets of the State approved by this House and, more importantly, after each and every one of them, the situation of the Spaniards has improved significantly. That is Mr Montoro's service sheet and that is why the People's Parliamentary Group is proud of your work, Minister. [[Applauds]] And if what we're talking about is Catalonia, I guess they won't pretend to compare the attitude of their group in that autonomous community where, after winning the elections, they've stood idly by and done absolutely nothing. They will not seek to compare it with the attitude of the finance minister; of course, it is much easier to criticize than to make decisions, and it is apparent that you are specialists in the first but very unreliable in the second. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, think more about Spain and less about surveys and don't get confused as an enemy. [[Applauds]] Returning to the General Budgets of the State, yesterday the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Saura, began, pointing out that the late arrival of these budgets demonstrates the government's inability to reach agreements with other political forces. Nothing further from reality, Your Honor. This project is the result of the debate and a loyal search for the pact with other political forces represented in this House, to which I would like to thank logically for their contributions: Union del Pueblo Navarro, Citizens, Coalition Canaria, PNV and Forum Asturias. We are grateful to all of them for their efforts in these months of negotiations, as well as for their readiness to the agreement. In short, Mr Saura, the six political forces that we will reject the amendments as a whole are exercising responsibility, a sense of state and, more importantly, a common sense. To a greater extent, these General Budgets of the State are the result of the agreement with all the more than 8,000 local entities represented by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and are also the result of the agreement with the social agents, which represent more than two and a half million public workers. They have all agreed on some of the most important measures contained in this bill. In short, these budgets are the tangible proof that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group have understood the message given to us by the Spaniards in the last two elections: the absolute majority is over, you dialogue, you seek consensus and, finally, you reach agreements; something we have been doing over the more than twenty months of this legislature and there are some of the great agreements reached. I remind you of the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage or the spending ceiling for 2017, both supported by the Socialist Parliamentary Group - you have very little memory, Mr Saura -; or the spending ceiling for 2018, supported by six political forces of this House; or the General State Budgets for 2017, which were approved after reaching an agreement with seven political groups in Congress; or the Public Sector Recruitment Act; or the National Pact against Gender Violence. Thus, I would like to recall that the People's Group is the only one of the four major groups that has not emerged from any of the negotiations to achieve the great pacts that our country needs. [[Applauds]] The rest of the groups have stood up; the Socialist Group, Podemos and Citizens have stood up from one or more of these negotiating tables, and the People's Parliamentary Group has none, and perhaps this demonstrates who really has the will to agree and who is more interested in a photo or a headline in the media. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing general state budgets that come with the endorsement of all national and international bodies, public and private. I am thinking of the Bank of Spain, the International Monetary Fund, Airef, Funcas, the European Union, BBVA, etc., which, with slight nuances in some cases, endorse the fundamental figures envisaged by this government: economic growth, public deficit, tax revenues, public debt and job creation. Figures that are the consequence of the rigorous and, why not say, successful economic policy carried out by the People's Group since 2012 and which is based on two fundamental pillars: firstly, the consolidation of public accounts and, secondly, economic growth and job creation. Sanitation of the public accounts through a constant reduction of the public deficit: from that distant 9.3 points of the deficit GDP that the socialists left us, almost 100 billion euros of deficit, Mr Saura, which is said soon, until the 2.2 fixed in these General Budgets of the State, after having closed 2017 in 3.1. Mr Rivera, if you want to hang medals also with the public deficit, at least learn the numbers because you repeated several times in this rostrum that the deficit target for this year was 2.3 when it is actually 2.2. In any case, we will close 2018 having reduced our public deficit by more than 74 billion euros, a cleanup of public accounts as never before seen. Do you remember, Mr. Saura, that scam that the Spaniards perpetrated in their last legislature? The Spaniards do remember because we are still paying this last fiscal exercise of the Socialist Party today. You allowed yourself yesterday to speak of cheats, lies and cynicism, but you have to have very little memory or, by using your own words, very little shame to go up to this rostrum and say the things you said yesterday, Mr. Saura. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these days we have been able to hear how some spokesmen highlighted the fact that the territorial entities met the deficit target while the central administration failed, obviating the fact that it is the State that meets or fails, that is, Spain as a whole. They also forget that the various deficit targets are not set by the Government, but are set by this House when it approves the expenditure ceiling. Well, the People's Parliamentary Group is very positive that for the first time autonomous communities and local entities meet the deficit target set. We appreciate this very positively and reaffirm the need to have the Stability Act adopted by my parliamentary group in 2012 and, more specifically, the need for the expenditure rule. Mr Esteban, we believe that the spending rule has been fundamental for local entities and autonomous communities to meet the deficit target and to avoid falling into the temptation to return to the policies of the past that have done so much damage to this country. Mr Bel, Mr Baldoví, Mr Saura, if we want to tell the whole truth, we must point out that in the case of the autonomous communities the good figure of fiscal consolidation has been made possible to a large extent thanks to the extraordinary financing mechanisms put in place by the Government of Spain and by the Minister of Finance, which have resulted in savings, in terms of estimated interest only for 2018, of some €65 billion. This means that, having had to go to the markets to finance themselves, the autonomous communities should add 0.5 percentage points to their deficit, so that they would not have been able to meet the deficit target set. This is something that we not only say but which Fedea reminded her of in her last report published a few weeks ago. And I say all this in the spirit of avoiding the temptation of some to fall into demagogic discourses by implying that it is the autonomous communities that finance the deficit of the central administration. In addition to reducing the public deficit, the second pillar on which budgetary policy is based is the drive for economic growth and job creation. The government's forecast for this year 2018 is 2.7 growth, more than prudent because most analysts put this growth at close to 3%. As a result of this economic growth, job creation will be around 500 000 new jobs this year, reaching an average of half a million new jobs in the last four years, figures that are not remembered in our country, ladies and gentlemen. This is an economic growth that PSOE and Podemos consider not to be based on solid foundations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this brings you back to being alone; alone in your party demagogy. There is not a single expert who does not value the paradigm shift of growth in Spain in these years. They highlight the replacement of the brick from 2005 to 2009, with low value added and high external indebtedness, by exports of goods and services, which have high value added and provide current account surplus. In 2018 we will get current account surplus for the fifth consecutive year. This is a structural change, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not said by the Government or the People's Parliamentary Group; it is highlighted by the Banco de España, the Airef, Funcas, The Financial Times, The Economist... Everyone but you. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to the whole presented by the left are more the same than those of other years. They involve a brutal rise in taxes to cover their infinite capacity for spending. At this point, I would like to highlight two points. First of all, the Socialist Party not only points out that it would like to raise taxes by 8 billion in the first year, but in the next four years it would raise them no less than 25%. We, ladies and gentlemen, will bring them down in 2015 and 2016, and we will bring them down again in 2018. [[Rumors]] Mr Rivera - who is still not present in the House -, tax breaks began in 2015 and 2016. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u25	Wait a minute, Mr. Olano. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u26	By the way - I told you -, the biggest drop in our history: up to €93 billion at incomes below 24,000 per year. And, Mr. Rivera, you can't go up to this rostrum to say that the 2015 and 2016 tax cuts were made by the People's Party for the corrupt. You can't say that, because it's so much like calling 16 million Spaniards who benefited from that tax cut. [[Applauds]] As you see, Mr Rivera, you present us with newspaper headlines; we present you with the workers' payrolls. On the other hand, it is good to know that We can ask to eliminate tax benefits in order to get that brutal tax increase of €14.8 billion, and to eliminate tax benefits for families with disabilities; instead, we prefer to lower taxes on those families. We can also want to remove tax benefits by investing in R+D+i; we prefer to raise the budget for R+D+i to over 7 billion. We may want to raise taxes on families with children; instead, we prefer to lower them. Of course - and in this I do agree with you -, ladies and gentlemen of the left, we have very different ways of seeing society, fortunately for the Spaniards, I would say. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group we defend these budgets and consider them the logical consequence of the economic policy carried out by Mr Rajoy's government. From that far away 2012, when it was about sharing the sacrifices to face a brutal crisis, going through 2015 and 2016, when we started to return those efforts in the form of a tax reduction to middle and low incomes, until we reached these General State Budgets for 2018 - and I quote Mr Montoro again -, with which it is about sharing the benefits of economic recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards knew that they could not count on the left for difficult times; now they know that they cannot do so when things are better. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the conclusion that the Spaniards can draw from the no, in which the left is installed in this House. But on this occasion you will have to explain - Mr González, do not keep the slate, because it is going to be very much needed - to the 151 000 public employees working in our universities, who do not support either the stabilization of employment in order to reduce the interinity or the rise of a salary of 9% in three years; you, who claim so much to defend the public university. They will have to explain to the 163 000 national civilian guards and police that their work is worth less than that of the autonomous police and that they are going to vote against the wage equalisation agreement. They will have to explain to 265,000 working mothers who do not want to be helped with 1000 euros for their children's childcare costs between zero and three years, or to the more than 360 000 large families that you do not want to allow to have a birth check, or a check of 1200 euros per year per spouse for disability. They will also have to explain to the more than 650 000 scholarship students who are going to vote against the increase in the amounts of their scholarships, which they do not think is good enough to be allocated EUR 1450 million to scholarships, the highest figure ever included in the State General Budgets; almost 300 million more than in the last socialist budget. [[Applauds]] They will also have to explain why they do not agree with the possible drop in university fees, which could save families almost EUR 1 billion in the education of their children, although they will then vigorously defend equal opportunities. [[The lady]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the left, will have to explain to 1.5 million young people who do not want to give them the opportunity provided by the Youth Entrepreneurship and Guarantee Strategy to work and train simultaneously, complementing their salary with 430 euros per month for those workers under thirty years of age. Yes, you will have to explain it to him, you who say you care about young people. They will have to explain to the 2.5 million civil servants of the three levels of government - state, autonomous and local - that they have not supported the stabilization of employment and the rise of their remuneration. Do this when you go to your head doctor, when you pass a fire station, or when you have tutoring at your children's school. Tell them that they voted against raising their salary to 8.8% and that they could finally have their fixed position. [[Applauds]] You, who claim so much to defend the public sector, ladies and gentlemen. Explain to the 3,422,000 unemployed people who voted against the allocation of €5716 million in employment placements. I will not talk to you about your policy with the unemployed, Mr Saura, because it is already being tried by the courts in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] You will also have to explain to the 3.5 million milleurists why you deny them an average tax reduction of 420 euros. Please explain to the 6.5 million children under the age of 30 who have difficulty accessing the housing offered by the State Housing Plan, which has a specific budget for young people over €180 million. And explain this also in passing to those young people who live in populations of less than 5000 inhabitants. Finally, explain to the 9.5 million pensioners who, although you have taken them out on the street asking for a 1.6% increase, you are now going to vote against increases of between 1.6% and 3%. [[Applauds]] Explain to the half a million widows in Spain why you do not support an increase in widow's pensions to 7.8%. Do it if you can, ladies and gentlemen. Explain to them that they care much more about trying to wear down the government than the well-being of the Spaniards, and this time they don't lie to them, please. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, thanking all the groups for their support for the general budgets of the People's Party, I also thank you - of course I do - for your contributions and I am doing so by helping the rest of the groups to submit partial amendments that can improve, as these general budgets of the State have done so far. In the People's Parliamentary Group you will find, as always, the best of the will to reach agreement and this because we are convinced that, in doing so, we will continue to improve Spain. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u28	Madam President, I rise to the rostrum in this last round, which is the responsibility of the Government, firstly, to thank the position of the People's Parliamentary Group and also publicly to welcome the statement made by its spokesman on budget matters, Mr Olano, who has explained with certainty, firmness and also with conviction the content of this bill and above all what it represents for Spanish society. [[Applauds]] I would also like to say a few words to the People's Parliamentary Group about the political role it is playing in this legislature, a legislature in which it is supporting a minority government. Political formations are essential in our democracies, without them there is no democracy. Political formations seek the general interest, it is what makes sense to the political formations themselves, to the political parties themselves. The vision of that general interest obviously does not coincide, and that is the discrepancy in the basic formulation of democracy, which has also taken place in this debate yesterday and today, that is, the confrontation of ideas about what we mean by the general interest that is intended to serve a law of general State budgets. The People's Parliamentary Group has supported the Government of Spain without doubt in the most difficult moments in the history of our democracy. That time has been that of the institutional crisis in Catalonia and that of the economic crisis, the crisis of 2008, which to a large extent could be avoided. The People's Group has always had that expression of general interest, knowing that a group with a governmental vocation is a group that is not mature, but hard, facing difficulties. That is why the People's Group is today an expression of reliability, a backbone of the reliability of Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] And today I would like to acknowledge the role of the People's Parliamentary Group; without it we could not be presenting a draft law on general state budgets like the one we are submitting to the House for approval today. Throughout the debate we have also been able to see what are the different sensitivities and capacities to measure and calibrate the content of it from different perspectives. The various speakers have already done so, emphasizing various aspects of the State accounts that we submit to the House. Some of us have done it to praise them, and others to disqualify them. We have measured the effort made from these budgets in social spending, in reducing the public deficit... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u29	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u30	... in the creation of jobs, in the public service, in the increase of investments, in the correct financing of public services, in the promotion of pensions, in seeing how tax collection increases in our country, in the fight against fraud and of course in all areas that are also of greater social sensitivity, such as the fight against gender violence or the fight against climate change. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u31	One second, Mr. Montoro. Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little respect.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u32	Now that the time has come to vote on the amendments as a whole, I would like to invite your ladies and gentlemen to measure these budgets from another point of view, from the point of view of political compromise. Political commitment is another variable, a fundamental variable; it is an intangible value, but everyone understands its content. It is to be involved in the recovery and exit of the crisis, it is to be involved in the measures that must be taken to improve the public services that citizens receive, it is to take risks of co-responsibility in management either from the government or from the opposition. This is definitely the content of this budget law that the Government has presented, with very valuable contributions from other political groups who will then vote in favour of its continuation. Ours, that of the Government and that of these political groups that support it, is a political commitment to public employees and their families. It is a political commitment that we will strengthen in the coming days with the pensioners. It's a political commitment to families. It is a political and fiscal commitment to workers with lower incomes and their families. It is a commitment to the national police, to the civilian guards and to their families. It is a commitment to the unemployed, because we are going to favour the creation of another half a million jobs this year, and we will continue to do so in the coming years. [[Rumors]] It is a commitment to health, education and social benefits.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u34	It is a commitment to the autonomous communities that provide these services to citizens. It is a commitment to local entities and to the basic services that the neighbours of the capitals and peoples of Spain receive. It is a commitment to budgetary stability. And it's a commitment to the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, it is a commitment to Spain and to the Spaniards, to whom we offer from the State accounts the fruits of economic recovery. I would like to thank the political groups committed to the adoption of these budgets at the end of my speech. The vote they are going to cast will facilitate the processing of these budgets. I would like to thank you for joining your political commitment to citizens with the commitment of the Government, which has been serving citizens for more than six years now. At the same time, and finally, I would like to invite the rest of the groups in the House and, expressly, the Socialist Group and also the representative of New Canarias - he himself considers himself from this rostrum to consider what will be the result of today's vote. But also consider what will be the processing of budgets in the Commission and its return to the plenary of this Congress of Deputies. The budgets are not approved today, they will be approved when they transit not only by Commission and again in the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies, but also in the Spanish Senate. I, as Minister of Finance, have no doubt about the interest... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u36	... of the political dialogue that we need to continue to develop in the processing of these budgets. The government wants... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u37	Minister, one second. It is intolerable what is happening at the end of this plenary session. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, to take your seats. The importance of what is said at the end of a plenary session is as much as what is said at the beginning. I do not know why they are eager to keep talking while the speaker is speaking. Go on, Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u38	Thank you, Madam President. He said that the Government's will is to dialogue, to negotiate and to build. And we want to do so with the groups that support this bill today, but we also want to do so with those who are going to vote against it. Because I believe that at this very important moment for the history of Spain there is no one left and we are all needed. Today Spain needs political stability and political commitment in order to finish defeating the economic crisis and to overcome the serious institutional crisis that we have experienced in recent months. I think that citizens value the ability of political representatives to reach agreements rather than dowries for disqualification and criticism, which value more the ability to build than the ease to block. I conclude my speech by reiterating this call to dialogue, a call to bring ideas, a call to improve this and any other bill that we continue to bring to this House in this legislature, a call to build a better future among all, a call, in short, to commit ourselves to our country, to commit ourselves to Spain and to commit ourselves to the Spanish. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u39	We turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the last item on the agenda, concerning the request for an extension of one month from the deadline granted to the subcommittee for drawing up a statute for the artist, set up within the Committee on Culture, for the completion of its work. That request shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the vote, we shall proceed to make an institutional declaration against child abuse. Madam First Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u41	Thank you, President. Institutional declaration against child abuse. Yesterday, 25 April, the International Day to Combat Child Abuse was commemorated, and for this reason the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies wishes to recall, according to the latest available data from the Unified Register of Child Abuse, the 13,818 notifications of ill-treatment in the family sphere and the 4875 complaints, for the same reason, which the Ministry of the Interior of the Government of Spain points out. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that child abuse is only one of the forms of violence suffered by the children of our country. Hidden violence that takes the form of school harassment, sexual abuse, gender-based violence and, in the most serious cases, leads to the death of girls and boys, as has happened dramatically on four occasions during the year. We reaffirm the existing commitment of this House to the fight for the eradication of violence against children and the comprehensive protection of all children from all forms of violence, as evidenced by the unanimity, in September 2017, of a non-legislative proposal for the adoption in this legislature of a comprehensive law for the eradication of violence against children. Therefore, since the Congress of Deputies we express our willingness to cooperate, in all necessary ways, with the public administrations, in order to promote the necessary legal bases that guarantee comprehensive protection for children. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u43	We begin the voting. Let us then proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled to the State General Budgets Bill for 2018. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. These amendments are put to a single joint vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 346 plus four telematic votes, 350; in favour, 171 plus three telematic votes, 174; against, 175 plus one telematic vote, 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u44	Consequently, amendments to the draft State General Budgets Act are rejected. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-26-CD180426.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the request for a one-month extension of the deadline granted to the subcommittee for drawing up a statute for the artist, set up within the Committee on Culture, for the completion of its work is now before the plenary. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the extension of the term of the subcommission for the elaboration of an artist's statute is approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was eleven and twenty minutes in the morning.
