ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to include as the last point of today's sitting the request for an extension of the deadline granted to the subcommittee for the study of the professional regime of the military of troops and navy of the Armed Forces constituted within the Defence Commission until 30 September 2018 for the completion of its work. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u2	On the other hand, and with the unanimity of the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exchange the order of the debate on the interpellations relating to points 30 and 32. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u3	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the item on the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on unemployment protection. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u4	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. We turn to the defense of the consideration of the proposed law on unemployment protection presented by our group, although I would first of all like to thank the drafting team of our group, particularly Professor Juan López Gandía, Professor of Labour Law and Social Security, and his team, for their contribution, as always altruistic, to the initiatives of our group. [[Applauds]] We will defend a bill on our country's main problem. We might think that our country's main problem is the Government, it seems, however, that it is not our country's main problem, but that, as the CIS points out and as everyone points out, reality suggests that it is the unemployed and the unemployed who are the first concern we have. And we are particularly concerned about unemployment because, as you see, the unemployed in our country have been twice as victims of the People's Party Government, have been twice as victims of double-crossing because, as a result of the so-called crisis, they have lost their jobs, but also, when they needed the protection of their Government most, they have been thrown away and the People's Party Government, as you know, has brutally cut unemployment benefits. I'm going to make a brief history of the cuts of the People's Party. Please note that in 2010 the coverage rate for the unemployed and the unemployed reached almost 80% in Spain, exactly 79%. Today, 2018, the coverage rate for the unemployed and unemployed in Spain is only 56%. On the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, 22 social protection points have fallen. As you plundered our people and robbed them full-handed by corruption, you left our stands and our stands lying down. [[Applauds]] This is the history of unemployment in our country. In 2017 there were 3.9 million unemployed people. Do you know how many people had social protection? Of the 3.9 million unemployed, 2.8 million were left without any form of social protection. Hence the urgency of this proposal of law brought today by the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. As a history of cuts, I do not know if they know that what the men and women of the People's Party have stopped spending on unemployment exceeds 48 billion euros, exactly 48,370 million euros, which has been the cause of the rescue to the bank in our country. We can say loud and clear, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, that the bailout to the bank has been carried on their backs by the unemployed in our people, and this, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is not decent. [[Applauds]] Very quickly. What is the history of social protection in Spain? We don't have a pretty story. Let's just say we have three strong legislative moments. One starts with Law 22/1992, made by Felipe González, of which the elderly will remember. A huge cut in social protection in our country, both in terms of access conditions and in terms of the configuration of social protection itself in Spain. So far, that legislative framework has not been changed. It has never been improved, despite the fact that throughout the history of bipartisanism there was a collectory surplus for unemployment in our country, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, do not forget that it is not a gift that they make to the unemployed and to the unemployed, but that the workers we contribute to be entitled to unemployment. [[Applauds]] It is our right, you do not give it to us; it is the right of our people. Well, this hasn't been changed. Then came the aznarate and there was also a strong legislative change in 2002. The concept of unemployment in our country is brutally changed, and what they do is turn unemployed people into criminals. For you the unemployed and the unemployed are taken advantage of public aid and, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, the only one taken advantage of public aid in this country is the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The corruption of the People's Party is the only one exploited by the aid of the People's Party. I quickly end with the hatchet to social protection in Spain, which occurs, as you know, with the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012. Just when our people need it most, they charge the unemployment benefit for over forty-five years of age and over fifty-two years of age and reduce the regulatory base. In short, they leave our people lying down. Furthermore, to make it clear, the social protection system in our country has also become a bit old. It has become old because it was designed for a labour market in which workers had stable employment contracts, indefinite situations, in which unemployment operated only in a frictional way, but this is not our reality. Our reality is that we have poor workers. One third of wage earners and wage earners are not insecure, they have to go to Caritas to feed their children, something we had not met in our country. [[Applauds]] We have workers who involuntarily have to take part-time contracts. We have almost 26.8% precariousness and temporality in our country. Therefore, this law is more urgent than ever because the model that you have taken forward, without a doubt, has changed. We must do this precisely to break the circle of poverty, because one of the causes of poverty in Spain has to do with social unprotection, and to welcome the circle of security. There is nothing better for a people, for a country than giving social security to its compatriots. This is precisely what we are doing with this proposal for a law that we are debating today. Look, I'm going to quickly give you the characteristics of the proposal. I'm sure there will be better, my group hopes so, we'll like the proposal to be improved. In any case, we do some things that were very necessary in the social security system. The first is to extend the coverage of unemployment protection to groups who, so far, were unjustly deprived of it. For example, the 624,000 women domestic workers who are unfairly being deprived of unemployment coverage in our country. It seems to us fair that women domestic workers, who are also part of our social security system, are entitled to unemployment or are entitled to permanent unemployment through subsidies or part of the agricultural sector which lacks it. We believe it is fair, as other countries do, for our young people to be rewarded for the poor quality of employment and, above all, for the situation of poverty and precariousness they suffer. Our proposal halves the period of shortage so that young people can receive unemployment benefit. Precisely, young people under the age of 30 with only 180 days'contributions will be entitled to unemployment benefit and not 360 days, as is currently the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we finally want to legislate in favour of women. The Kingdom of Spain has recently been convicted, as you know, of discriminatory treatment for their different treatment in horizontal and vertical part-time. This proposal for a law is what it does, precisely, to change this paradigm to ensure that women, who are essentially the ones who endure part-time work, will finally see that discrimination eradicated. We also do something very important, which is to regain the scope of the regulatory base of other times - the older ones will remember - that is, a benefit that has to do with 70% of the regulatory base. As you know, thanks to the People's Party in 2012, this benefit was reduced to 50 and 60% of the regulatory base. What we do is extend it to 70% of the regulatory base and, in addition, to a single section. You know that the first six months would be 60% of the regulatory base and the following a smaller amount. It seems that this differentiation makes no sense, and what we do is a single 70 % stretch for the total of the days during which workers are entitled to unemployment benefit. We also, of course, raise the maximum and minimum amounts of both contributory and care benefits. I insist, we have unemployed workers who are literally poor. I suppose you, like me, receive almost daily messages from a very important group of workers in your Congress posts to ask us to recover the allowance for over fifty-two years old. Obviously, this legislative proposal recovers the allowance for over fifty-two years of age and, in addition, extends it to the retirement age. We also recovered the allowance for those over 45 years of age. In this proposal for a law we not only stay here, but we set up a new model of active employment policies. The last reform - or cut - that you have practiced in the General Budgets of the State is, I insist, to treat the unemployed and the unemployed little less than criminals. Let's talk about the last cut, by the way, they've made, cheating. I do not know if you know that there was a forecast of unemployment income in the current budget of EUR 20 billion and yet you only devote to social protection in the area of unemployment EUR 17 billion. Let us say it loud and clear, they are stealing from the workers of this country 3000 million euros which, I insist, are from them and from them. [[Applauds]] To conclude, from the rostrum I call on the 350 Members to vote yes to this bill to allow their debate to proceed, to vote yes to something that we believe has to do with the fundamental problems of our people, of our people, and, above all, to vote yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because I hope on Friday that there will be a government that says loud and clear that, apart from corruption, in Spain we defend our people, we defend the workers and we defend the unemployed and the unemployed. For them, we are voting on this bill today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u5	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Very good evening. Mrs Díaz, I announce to you that the meaning of my group's vote, as it could not otherwise be, is going to be affirmative. We will vote in favour of this bill because it interferes with our political philosophy and the work we do in the Government of the Valencian Country. This foundation is none other than our deep conviction of the sense of patriotism. Not of barren patriotism of banner and with excessive doses of testosterone, but rather the patriotism of what we call in the Valencian patriotism community of the people. Patriotism of people who put power at the service of social welfare, patriotism that reduces waiting lists or patriotism that rescues and protects people. In short, and paraphrasing Evaristo, we say no amen to anything, to corruption. We will vote in favour of this PL that rescues and protects people because it is in tune with our patriotism of the people. Let me tell you that this patriotism of people has a fundamental premise, a necessary condition for its realization. This basic premise is nothing more or less than decency, decency of all political action, decency of a good government. Today we want to affirm our political principles in this defence of our position to vote in the PL, and we want to do so because in order for this PL to have travelled and to be effective, we need to make a decision, a decision that will mark one before and one after in the political history of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to choose the path this country is taking. There are two paths: either democracy or corruption, or democracy or the People's Party. And we know where we're going to be. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u8	Good afternoon, Madam President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot deny that, at first, the reading of this proposal for a law did give us a rather positive feeling because it seemed that it intended to go beyond, in some way, the scope of the current situation of unemployment protection in force in the General Law on Social Security in order to meet other objectives that were more ambitious, certainly as ambitious as those that you claim but with another systematic different than that which you are currently proposing. I will give you an example of your own text, when in the explanatory statement you say that unemployment protection needs to be enriched and redefined with active policies that allow workers to adapt to changes and new demands on the labour market. To this end, it considered it necessary to ensure individualized care through routes adapted to each individual and through monitoring systems that link both parties to reciprocal obligations. In the same vein, the explanatory statement states that active employment policies in our country are very deficient and inefficient, and therefore proposes their reconsideration - in particular those of employment incentives - by transferring them to other active policies with better returns without the need to increase expenditure. Thus far, the explanatory statement implied that from the purely economic point of view, too, the perspective of a different approach to the policy against unemployment was taken. While that statement of reasons seemed to us to be very encouraging, and although we understood that attention to that situation also fell under the Toledo Pact, we did not intend to refuse - and we are not going to do so - consideration of this proposal for a law. However, apart from the disproportion between the exhibitive and the operative part thirteen pages to eight, from its reading we deduce that the initiative is limited to changing the regulation of economic benefits due to unemployment and, more strikingly, it reduces the approach of the necessary and profound reform of active employment policies to a brief first additional provision that does not answer that question. This is certainly our greatest discrepancy with the initiative, as it results in a different model of attention to the problem of unemployment based on a policy of assistanceism which is certainly also necessary, obviating that much of its root - and also of its solution - must be concrete in its formative and integration facet; that is, as I have said before, to address a serious and comprehensive debate on the comprehensive attention to the situation of unemployment and the participation in its solution of the agents closest to the solution, both social and territorial, and to the Toledo Pact, as I have also said. But that is neither the text nor seems to be the intention of the legislative proposal. However, I am going to go for a moment to the content of the text, as it intends to introduce a number of changes of some significance in the regulation of unemployment protection, announcing the intention to eliminate the cuts introduced by the previous reforms. To this end, it proposes changes which fall within Title III of the General Social Security Act and which affect both the specific regulation of the contributory level of unemployment benefit and that of the welfare level of unemployment benefit. It also deals with a number of issues relating to the financial regime and common management of both benefits and their control, as well as the obligations of its beneficiaries, focusing mainly on the redefinition and development of the concepts of commitment to activity and adequate placement. In addition, it is worth highlighting that it makes two specific mentions to both specific collectives. The first is that of housewives, with respect to which an amendment to section 251(d) of the General Law on Social Security is proposed, which we understand to be correct. It is a matter on which we basically agree, although we understand that another different, deeper or more specific reflection is needed. The second is that of the possible agricultural workers, with express reference to those of Andalusia and Extremadura, whose situation will undoubtedly also have to be addressed, proposing the amendment of Article 287. As he pointed out, apart from the explanatory part, the operative part has a certain line and, in conclusion, we understand that this proposal for a law is essentially limited to maintaining the existing system of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act for the protection of the situation of unemployment, maintaining and correcting upwards the current financial aid, the contribution allowance and the assistance allowance, but obviating the situation of the long-term unemployed who, in view of the formulation of these benefits, are even outside their coverage. On the other hand, the current regulatory scheme is frozen without assessing any other type of aid, such as those under the Plan, the EAP or the RAI, which also responds to the unemployment protection of currently excluded groups. Moreover, as a curiosity, it does not even address the claim provided for in Royal Decree Law 14/2017, which temporarily reactivates the Plan Preparation, and which announces not only the intention to carry out an integral regulation of this issue, but also the complementarity of these aids with those of the autonomous communities. Thus, and despite the statements made in its preamble, this proposal for a law lacks the necessary ambition to deal with a comprehensive regulation of unemployment protection in the light of the totality of situations and public aid which currently compete over this situation, which determine the serious situation of social exclusion. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot maintain a position favourable to the consideration of this proposal for a law in its own terms, but also to the contrary, so we shall abstain. Without prejudice to our abstention and to the success of this proposal, we believe that it should serve as a parliamentary initiative for a regulation which addresses unemployment protection as a whole. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u9	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to everyone. Today we are dealing with the proposal for a law on the protection of unemployment which, although not the solution, is actually a good proposal for a law. He puts on the table one of the many misguided labor reforms brought to us by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the People's Party. In our view, the optimal solution is - as we have repeatedly advocated in the Republican Left - the repeal of labour reforms, and only at this moment could we address a labour reform in a consensual and not unilaterally with the participation of all the parties involved. I say this because the welcome patches are and if they are of this scale much more, but there cannot be a fair labour market without, first of all, the labor reforms that have objectively led us to a model of employment based on precariousness, low wages, a labor system without balance of power between workers and entrepreneurs, which is fundamental, to a situation in which everything is worth or in which it is taken or left, as the only premise and in which the only model of management is that of the benefit of the capitalist. As I said, the easing of the causes of dismissal and the destruction of collective bargaining, together with the inability of different governments to create the conditions for building a productive model that creates quality employment, has created a society with an unacceptable structural unemployment and an excess of time, as the existing employment has been spread through fixed-term and part-time contracts, and a society where a lot of workers can be found who are poor or unable to live from their work. The ease of dismissal, coupled with the application priority of the company agreement, has led many companies to fire their workers and/or outsource their activity to multi-service companies that negotiate their own agreements, so that workers have seen their salary reduced to 300 euros working for the same company and in the same activity, housekeepers or private security, for example. In view of the excessive and unjustified flexibility of the labour market, together with a productive model which also causes unemployment and precariousness always, but above all in this context, the current protection for unemployment has not compensated, but on the contrary, the misery that implies belonging to the working class excluded from the labour market or under conditions of extreme precariousness. Unemployment protection has been reduced, both the amount of the benefit and the eligibility requirements, and the abolition of the allowance for over fifty-two years old, which condemns many people to present and future poverty - in this I also agree with you, Yolanda -. The Spanish State is devoting less and less money to protecting those who have been left out of work, not only as a result of the decline in unemployment in recent years, but also because of the exhaustion of long-term unemployment benefits and cuts imposed by the Rajoy Government from 2012 onwards, which also contributed decisively to the loss of protection. One example is the 2018 unemployment budget line, which is budgeted at 616 million less than in 2017. This deepens the downward trend in unemployment funds since 2012, a fall that exceeds 42%, far exceeding that experienced by unemployment, which rounded by just over 30% in the same period according to the EPA. In short, we will vote yes to the handling of this unalterable bill to alleviate the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people who need it now and now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u11	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea brings an initiative in the field of unemployment protection in which many measures we like, some we like less and others are impossible to fulfil, but it is true that it is necessary to open a debate on unemployment. However, it is a pity that we are faced with a legislature that is totally liquidated because of the corruption of the People's Party. I am addressing you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, this legislature resembles the film The Others of Amenabar, because we all know that you are dead less. [[Applauds]] As I said, there are some measures that we like and others that are impossible to comply with. It is true that we are emerging from the crisis, which is reducing the number of unemployed, which is reducing the number of items and spending on unemployment. It is true that it is time to reverse some of the measures taken by the People's Party, especially since 2012, such as the recovery of the allowance for over fifty-two years old. It is true that our legislation must be brought into line with the rulings of the European Courts of Justice on equality with regard to part-time workers' allowances - I think that is quite right. However, we have strong reasons for not being able to vote in favour of this initiative, and one of the main reasons is that it is not our model. Our model is not that of subsidies. You propose a model of subsidies with more increases in passive employment policies and we are betting on a model of more and better opportunities thanks to more investment in active employment policies. We are sure that employees do not want more and better benefits but that what they want is to work, find a suitable job and as soon as possible. The public resources we have, which are scarce, therefore have to go in that direction, to encourage job creation by supporting large job creators in this country, self-employed and SMEs, to encourage our unemployed to find adequate employment, to invest in training, reorientation, integration routes, and to encourage, above all, the rapid transition from employment to employment and, above all, from unemployment to employment. That is to say, we want to move towards a model - not what you are doing with this initiative - that seeks the balance between passive policies and active employment policies, as you are doing, on the other hand, the most modern European Union countries in this type of policy, such as Denmark, Sweden or Belgium. What did these countries do in the 1990s? Link generous benefits to compulsory activation routes, with intensive investment in active employment policies. It was the effectiveness of the outcome of these models that led the European institutions to focus on these policies as a basic pillar of employment strategies. From then on, the European Commission does what it does is to evaluate the countries of the Member States in the implementation of investments in these types of policies, and we have for many years, with the governments of the People's Party and with the governments of the Socialist Party, depending on them. In Spain we maintain high unemployment rates, whether we are in crisis or not. We double the unemployment rates of the EU average. We have inefficient public employment services. Here we are able to mediate only 2% of all placements against the EU average, which is around 10%. Moreover, while citizens are gradually trying to invest this model in the State's General Budgets, there is a clear lack of investment because there is little and no investment in these active employment policies. We were talking about the balance between active and passive policies. In Spain we are still at 87.3 in passive employment policies, compared to 12.7 in active policies. You are committed to continuing to bet on that model, which, as I tell you, is a model that has failed. They are committed to continuing to focus all investments on passive employment policies, which we see are not working. What is more, you are talking about active employment policies in the explanatory statement for three sheets when, then, you do the opposite; that is, what you do is relax the control of employment services over the commitments of activity when we understand that policies have to go in the totally opposite direction, as I said before and as we have done in the State General Budgets for both 2017 and 2018, by increasing the allocations for employment promotion policies - in these last budgets, up to 57 billion - for aid, to provide this Law on Urgent Reforms of Self-Employment which we see as being used to generate employment, to provide content items for the personalized career orientation of long-term unemployed people - in Spain we have a very serious problem of long-term unemployed people - for funds for training checks and that are the unemployed, without intermediaries, those who choose the training that best suits them, according to their skills, or for the implementation of a statistical profile so that these public employment services that we see are not mediating all these tools to do so that we have them. In short, they are modern employment policies, as in the rest of Europe, and balancing the accounts. That is the second major reason why we cannot give the yes to his initiative, because they do not tell us how much it will cost us. And we have opened the presentation of another PL of minimum income, which we do not have very clear what is going to cost us either because we are waiting for this opinion of the Airef which goes in the same direction, as I say, more investment in passive employment policies which, so far, have not worked and which are failed policies. Finally, as far as the employment of the household - and here I add to what Barandiaran said - is concerned, however much you go up to this rostrum, shout and put on a role that the employees of the household are going to have an unemployment benefit within six months, you and I know that that is populism and that it is not possible, because the employment of the household is a special employment relationship that has many peculiarities. We agree that we have to deal with this debate; but precisely this debate is addressed with what you say needs to be repealed, which is by setting up a working group to see precisely what we can do to equate the rights of domestic workers with those of other employees, not only in terms of unemployment benefit, but also in terms of the safety of work, also in terms of compensation and many other things. [[Applauds]] And there is a clear breach of the People's Party that did not set in motion that working group set up in the 2011 decree, which you say should be repealed and which we think should not. What needs to be done is to set up that working group to see how we equate the rights of domestic workers with the rest of the workers. In conclusion, I would simply like to ask the Government once again to rectify its position, to convene once and for all elections and to start working on how we can implement these General Budgets of the State which we approved very recently, for the sake of the Spaniards and also for the sake of all these unemployed, who will see how all these items to improve their possibilities of occupation are made a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u14	Good afternoon. Firstly, I will say that I am surprised to be talking about unemployment protection and not even seeing the Minister for Employment. [[Applauds]] My group will support this initiative. Why? Because we thought it was very necessary to bring the debate on unemployment protection to the House. We can say that the People's Party has carried out a silent cut in unemployment benefit; it has been a general cut; it has affected benefits, subsidies and aid; it has been a sharp cut in the amount and content. We are talking about labour reform, but we could also talk about performance reform. It has been a cut that despite its intensity has gone unnoticed; it has been a sible cut; it has been confused among other major reforms that have been cutting workers' rights; it has been an ideological cut. The statements of reasons for cutting the benefit stated that if the benefit was cut, people would be involved in the search for employment. Similarly, it has been a cut-off with a certain care mentality: although they said that what they wanted was to involve people in the active search for employment, they have never invested in personalized itineraries, in recasting actions, etc., which I believe are in the initiative, which I too have read. The People's Party has never opted for active employment policies, as shown by the fact that they have systematically gone into budgets by reducing the amounts devoted to this purpose. Finally, it has been a persistent cut. The People's Party remains committed to cutting the benefit, and has shown it to us with the extraordinary subsidy with which it intends to unify Preparation and the EAP, and that it is just another reduction in unemployment protection coverage. So, what are we up to? In the face of a People's Party that is unwilling to reverse a situation - not even economic growth, as they tell us - and that increasingly forgets one aspect of the benefit that we believe is very important and that this initiative is recovering, as is the contributory aspect. We will support this initiative because from my group we are sure that it will give us the opportunity to undertake a comprehensive reform and a strengthening of all benefits. And we are going to support this initiative from my group because we have already worked on the recovery of unemployment protection; in fact, we are presenting an amendment to the General State Budgets to reform in its entirety the care and allowance for older than fifty-two years, and we are sure that our group will make great contributions to the presentation that will be made to deal with this reform. Why do we also think this initiative is very important? Because we are always faced with job creation data, but the job that is being created is low-wage employment, very short-term temporary employment and part-time employment. What's this supposed to mean? That it is not charged but it is not sufficiently paid and that there are no periods of lack for workers to be entitled to a benefit. This means that the effects of all the cuts in the People's Party have been even more damaging in a system that we had of unemployment protection that was not intended for either long-term unemployed situations or precarious work. Who is this fundamentally affecting? Women and young people. This proposal is very important because it comes at a time when the People's Party has demonstrated its inability to comply with article 35 of the Constitution, which says that we all have the right to a job, but not any job but one that allows us to meet the needs of ourselves and our family. And what does the Constitution also tell us in its article 41 and that the People's Party has consistently failed? That we are all entitled to decent benefits. I am going to make a brief list of all the reforms that the People's Party has carried out so that we can see the extent of these reforms - some have already been said here -: they reduced the unemployment benefit by reducing the replacement rate from 60 % to 50 %; they made the replacement of unemployment protection in the suspension employment regulations disappear - and this is very important - even though they knew that these workers were going to be yes or yes in the long-term unemployed in the future; they restricted access to the subsidy for over fifty-two years - that has already been said - and they eliminated the one for over forty-five years; they encouraged, under the entrepreneurship formula, the capitalisation of the subsidy for young people. What happened to those young people? That in two years they had neither benefit nor employment. What happened? They cut the Preparation, cut the RAI, cut the PAE and something fundamental for us and so we say that it is not a cut in money but an ideological cut: they hardened the requirements of access to benefits more and more, it was more and more difficult to prove the lack of income, there was more and more control over the search for employment, they hardened the causes of suspension. These are important issues for us from what we comment on, because it goes beyond an economic cut: it is an ideological cut based on a strange idea that people standing still are the cause of their situation. That is why we are going to support this initiative, because we believe that the current system is unsustainable: three out of four people do not receive unemployment benefit and the poverty rate of the unemployed - the European Union has said - is 49% and 10 points have been fired in the last ten years; the amount of unemployment benefit has been reduced by EUR 2658 per year; care allowances have been generalized, compared with benefits, and with EUR 430 of subsidy any person is poor, is not at risk of poverty. [[Applauds]] Even unemployment protection significantly affects children in the family home when their parents are unemployed and the configuration of unemployment protection is poorly designed for the current labour market we are creating. I would like to make a brief mention, lastly, of the issue of housewives. It seems to us very appropriate that this initiative has been brought in because it is necessary to include domestic workers, more than anything when we are always talking about the wage gap and discrimination, in the general social security system, it is necessary that their rights of protection for unemployment at least be debated and that gap recognised. [[Mr. Elorza González: There! There!]] We also brought to the Employment Commission this morning the proposal for a law on the recognition of preventive obligations of domestic workers. I conclude by saying that we will support this initiative because we believe it is important for all unemployed people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Albaladejo Martínez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to state my position with regard to this proposal for a law promoted by Podemos, the aim of which is to introduce changes in the regulation of unemployment benefit with the first and final aim of reversing to the previous situation the reforms promoted by the People's Party in this area, reforms which, thanks to the efforts of Spanish society, have resulted in the recovery of 70% of the employment destroyed during the crisis. It is worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen, what objectives the People's Party intended with the measures adopted in 2012 in a scenario at the time - ignored by some today - dramatic of job destruction and which are now seeking to change in a way, in my opinion, absolutely wrong. We wanted and managed at those times to concentrate protection in situations of job loss and personal situations in that area that required very special attention. The fundamental maxim was to leave no one behind in this time of crisis. That was the obsession of the Government of the People's Party and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We intend and manage to boost employee motivation by encouraging the early return to the labour market, an absolutely essential element. We intend and manage to give absolute internal coherence to the benefit system as a whole in order to strengthen its viability. You have left Spain in bankruptcy, that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and time and facts are giving reason to the normative impulse of the People's Group and the Government of Spain in its activity. In 2011, 1500 daily jobs were destroyed. Today 1700 jobs are created a day. Seven out of every ten euros of Public Employment Service resources are for the protection of unemployed workers. Unemployment expenditure on active employment policies is already 16%, at the same levels as in 2011. The overall amount for employment-related policies amounts to EUR 24.5 billion. Investment in active policies per unemployed person is increasing by 10%, at this time close to 2000 euros per person. The number of unemployed in April 2018 is the lowest in nine years. We have reduced unemployment with an extraordinary effort by the whole of Spanish civil society by more than 1 700 000 people. This is the good news. We work for and for people. You are not discovering anything, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] In 2017 more than 611,000 jobs were created, the best year of the series in homogeneous terms, resulting in the recovery of 2,310,000 jobs. We have recovered with the effort of all seven out of ten jobs destroyed during the crisis. Spain with its policies generated half the unemployment in Europe. We are now leading the creation of employment. 500 000 jobs will be created in 2018 with the vote against the Socialist Party and Podemos to the State General Budgets that are currently in the Senate. The level of protection for the unemployed, as much as you say here, has increased from 2009 by 29%. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The job that comes with recovery is a much better job than the job that went with the crisis. What is important is data linked to generation and job creation. Households with all their unemployed members are now 800,000 less due to recovery. Your credibility in this matter is scarce. I would like to open an intercommission: The extraordinary consolidation effort comes from direct adjustments in the reduction and freezing of the disposable income of civil servants and pensioners. Someone spoke here today about article 35 of the Constitution, the right to work. The president of the Government of Spain, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, who recognized this in the parliamentary seat and in the Diario de Sesiones of 24 February 2011, took the decision to reduce unemployment benefits in Spain as well as to lower pensions. It is you who have made here the greatest cuts in this matter in the history of Spain, and this you have to recognize. [[Applauds]] When someone comes up here and talks about cuts and looks at the People's Party bench they have to recognize that it is the People's Party that has made the specific foundation of the Minister of Employment's keywords: Employment - says Fatima Báñez - is the foundation of our best social protection instrument. And that is where the People's Party - Spain knows it - actually puts the Spanish workers to work and puts this country on its feet and to walk. You are not interested in talking about supplementary income due to unemployment. In the same vein you must know that the Government has already proposed to the social partners and the autonomous communities with competence in this field the unification of the level of assistance and we will launch the supplementary income of unemployment, all this with the vote against Podemos and the Socialist Party. The fundamental obsession of the People's Party Government is that it is always protecting the most disadvantaged in terms of employment. That is our obsession, ladies and gentlemen, and you have never supported the action of a government that has now recovered seven out of ten jobs destroyed by the crisis. Special mention for young people. Very little has been said about young people. Job creation among young people is growing at a rate of almost 9% and the youth unemployment rate is reduced by 20 points, EUR 500 million as a complement to the National Youth Guarantee System. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important for all of you to be very clear that your proposals have an absolutely different vision than ours. You see 3.3 million people who need protection without actually encouraging their entry into the labour market. On the contrary, we see 3.3 million reasons to continue fighting for Spain, convinced of the maximum that the Minister of Employment has already cited: The best social policy is job creation. His proposals in this bill directly discourage the active search for employment and generate an impact of simply unsustainable expenditure increases, in a first estimate nothing more and nothing less than EUR 8 billion per year, nothing more and nothing less than 40% more than the current expenditure on protection. That's priceless, it's untenable and it's just amazing. I have the honour here to represent the People's Parliamentary Group, which has supported employment creation with mixed data and is therefore a guarantor for all Spaniards when it governs this wonderful nation. We are the party that bets on the policy that generates job creation and at the same time generates the resources to leave no one at the stand. We do not want to leave the most needy without protection. Thanks to the 2018 budgets we will have in this country a history of success in employment, and that will be a history of sustainability of the welfare state. While you worry about taking down the good policies of social protection - I am finishing, President - and creating the job of the People's Party, apparently wanting to give fish to people without knowing who pays them or how, we will continue to encourage and promote the best social policy, which is to create jobs that guarantee the sustainability of our welfare state. Employment has always been the mark of identity of the People's Party and will remain so, mainly because Spain deserves it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u17	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which amended the text of the law governing local affairs, adopted by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March 2004 and other rules of procedure. [[File number 122/000196]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u18	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group, amending the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/200 of 5 March, and other tax rules. Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the proposal for a law tabled by my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, amending the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act and other tax rules. The Government of the People's Party, as you know, has made a great effort to reconcile this text with the rest of the political groups and with the municipalities themselves within the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. That is why we understand that this issue will attract the majority support of this House, although we are very much afraid, from the statements made to us by some spokesman, that some group is going to be tempted to vote against it. I ask groups like Citizens: Where is the word given? Where's your word? Where is the general interest of the Spaniards? It seems that in these difficult and convulsed times of Spanish politics the only thing that matters and that prevails above all else is the electoral interest and not the general interest of the Spaniards. But why do we understand from the Group of the European People's Party that there must be a great deal of agreement on this issue? First, because a ruling of the Constitutional Court is being enforced, as you know. Secondly, because we believe that it is necessary to establish a new formula for calculating the tax base that is in line with the constitutional principle of economic capacity and, thirdly, to give taxpayers and the municipalities themselves greater legal certainty, which is very important from our point of view in the field of taxation. As I said at the outset, the Government has made a great effort to negotiate with the political groups and with the municipalities themselves to reach the broadest possible consensus on this reform. The municipal surplus value, or the tax on the increase in the value of the land, allowed the more than 8000 municipalities that exist in Spain to enter almost 2600 million euros in 2016; therefore, it is a very important source of income for the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court ruled on this tax on 11 May and considered that the tax violated the principle of economic capacity in so far as the tax is not linked to the existence of an increase in the real value of the property. In other words, having only held a land of an urban nature for a certain period of time involved, under the current legislation, necessarily the payment of the tax. That is why, after that negotiation period, the People's Parliamentary Group has registered this proposal for a law amending the Local Finance Regulatory Act in relation to the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature. Aware of the importance of this tax for our municipalities, since, as I have said, it contributed almost 2600 million euros to their municipal coffers in 2016, and of the serious problem posed by the ruling of the Constitutional Court dated 11 May 2017, it is necessary to carry out this reform, a reform like the one we are debating here today. It is true that in the People's Party we would have preferred this change to have been incorporated into the reform of the local funding system, of course; the Government is, as you know, pushing for a reform of autonomous financing in parallel with a reform of local funding. The technical work is in the final stage, but it now requires the political commitment of the rest of the forces that govern these levels of public administration and, in particular, of the Socialist Party. That is why I appeal once again to your responsibility to be able to approve this reform as soon as possible because it is for the benefit of all Spaniards. As this support arrives, and as the situation was very complex for local authorities, my parliamentary group is bringing to plenary today a proposal for a law which fulfils two objectives: to adapt the legislation, as I have said, to the content of the Constitutional Court's ruling in order not to subject to taxation situations in which there is no increase in the value of land and to improve technically the determination of the tax base for cases where there is an increase in the value of land, defining coefficients which take account of the number of years that have elapsed in conjunction with the actual evolution of the real estate market. Three additional issues are introduced which I will mention very briefly in this bill, which is to declare exempt in the IRPF the amounts received as compensation for the families of the victims of the accident on 24 March 2015 - the plane that crashed in the Alps with 150 dead -, retroactively and without the need to go to court. The sponsorship of non-resident companies is also encouraged and, finally, the autonomous communities of Madrid and Cantabria - which is mine - are included in the system of self-liquidation of the inheritance and donation tax. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we are talking today about the financing of the municipalities. For the People's Party, support for our municipalities and their sustainability has been a priority since the beginning of the 10th Legislature, when we arrived at the government and found the municipalities on the verge of financial collapse and with millions of unpaid bills. We believe in municipalities as a fundamental part of our institutional architecture for the provision of services to citizens. Because of their proximity, because of their proximity to the neighbors, they know their needs better than anyone else. We are the party - the People's Party - with the largest territorial establishment and the largest number of councillors and that believes us as the greatest valours of the great work that these councillors do in their municipalities. That is why - works are love - the results of the policies of the People's Party support us and the result of the economic policy of the government, the good results, we can say that the figures that are reflected in the law of budgets for 2018 preview an increase of financing of the territorial administrations of 4248 million euros. We find ourselves in figures of peaks in the historical series and that figure is also above those that were handled in 2009 when, according to the Socialist Party, the economic crisis had not yet arrived. All these additional resources that will come to the hands of the territorial administrations will be aimed at strengthening the welfare state and the provision of basic public services, in particular education, health, social services and dependency. And I have to point out that the budget allocation of the administration's funding for local authorities is around 20% of its revenue because much of our municipalities' resources come from their local taxes. We must therefore point out that the positive effects of the economic policy of the Government and the economic recovery achieved by the policies of the People's Party have also been seen in the collection of the municipalities themselves, since the current revenues of the municipalities have been at their peak for five consecutive years. The municipalities have reaped the fruits because these successful policies reached in 2017 a surplus of 0.59% of GDP, a total of 6812 million euros of surplus. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the situation was quite different in 2011, when the deficit was 0.79% of GDP, EUR 8506 million of deficit. And this change, ladies and gentlemen, has not been the result of chance, there has been a great deal of effort on the part of local corporations, of all our local corporations, but it has undoubtedly been driven by reforms of the People's Party Government and in particular by the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability. In addition, the Government has taken a number of measures to secure a greater source of income for the municipal arks. I'm going to comment on some of them. Since 2014 - as you know - it has been envisaged that local entities will be able to allocate their surplus to financially sustainable investments without such amounts for such investments being included in the expenditure rule. In 2018, Royal Decree-Law 1/2018 not only extends this possibility of investing the surplus, but also broadens the scope of the objective, that is, the catalogue of investments in which the municipalities will be able to invest and allocate that surplus. The investment figure so far covered only one in four euros of surplus, and with this Government measure we hope that the possibility of investing that surplus can be expanded with this new wider catalogue. Another piece that has also been launched by the People's Party Government is the provision for liquidity mechanisms. As you know, this package of measures began in 2012 with a criterion of necessity, because we were in a serious economic crisis in which there was a sharp fall in the revenues of public administrations and a situation in which administrations could not go to markets. This led to a large volume of debt accumulation to suppliers by autonomous communities and local entities, an effect that was very negative for the real economy because of its impact on employment and the business fabric. As you know, the Vendor Payment Plan was initially launched, followed by the Automated Liquidity Fund, and at the local level, the Management Fund and the Economic Impulse Fund have been established. The total funding that has been made available to autonomous communities and local authorities from 2012 to 2017 amounts to almost EUR 222 billion, of which EUR 207 000 is for autonomous communities and EUR 14 000 for local authorities. And of all that we have given, we can say that almost 50% of the envelope has been earmarked for the payment of suppliers, to finance those debts, those unpaid bills of which three quarters were intended to finance our basic public services: our health, our education and our social services. That is why these fiscal and financial conditions that the Government of the People's Party has made available to autonomous communities and municipalities have borne fruit and have good results, as we are seeing, for example, in the decline of the average period of payment to suppliers. Both autonomous communities and local authorities currently have a payment period of less than 30 days. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. In the People's Parliamentary Group we look forward to the support of all the political groups represented in Congress for this bill. There is the previous consensus of the municipalities, which in the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces have given their support to this text in order to comply with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, in addition increasing the legal certainty of taxpayers and of the municipalities themselves that have an important source of funding in this tax. Let us all say yes to our municipalities that have contributed so much to the recovery of Spain and the Spaniards. Politics is living in turbulent times, but the vavenants concerned and the populisms will only lead us to political instability, to economic recession and to the destruction of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u20	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is an essential consideration in order to clarify the transitional law and to promote a new regulation of the tax on the increase of the value of land of urban nature after the ruling of the Constitutional Court 59/2017. Since the publication of this judgment, a year ago, our municipalities have seen their ability to dispose of important resources and are immersed in the legal uncertainty resulting from the constitutional invalidity of several articles that affect the local estates fully, hence the need to promote a legislative amendment, because in this case the General Courts are the ones that have the responsibility to do so, and also the complaints that are being made by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, to which we must add the challenge of urgently taking on a new model of financing for autonomous communities and a financing formula for municipalities that will put an end to the system that was approved in 2009 and whose review, after five years of waiting, is a key and most urgent matter. At the Forum we trust the Rajoy Government's commitment to tackle this situation, which is already of the utmost urgency and is absolutely linked to the implementation of the General Budgets of the State for 2018, which have just passed the procedure of the Congress of Deputies, because what it is about is to ensure that the new economic expectations resulting from the recovery are used as a priority to finance the expenses of the State of welfare and essential public services, that is, education, health, social services and aid to dependency. The proposal for a law which Mrs Madraz Díaz has defended represents a legislative step forward in order to address the drawbacks that the declaration of unconstitutionality in the articles affecting her finances has entailed for local entities; that is, we are faced with a procedure that is ahead of the commitment to develop a new local funding that is currently under review and analysis by a committee of experts. With the other three paragraphs dealing with the proposed amendment, including the one on the tax exemption for victims of the Germanwings air accident, we also agree, so the Forum vote will be in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda also spoke for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u23	We, unlike Citizens, will indeed think of all Spaniards and we will vote in favour of this bill being dealt with. It was an expected modification, it was a modification that the municipalities were asking for. In fact, we have been in this limbo of insecurity for almost a year, in this limbo in which the municipalities could not liquidate all these capital gains and the municipalities were asking for it. From my point of view, it took a little too long to get there. I have had complaints from many municipalities that this should have been done long before. I have already said that Mr Compromís will vote for the inclusion, although he will submit amendments, because there are certain paragraphs which are not too clear. Firstly, it is not clear what happens to the pre-judgment gains that have already been settled. Secondly, it is said that the local government will establish the means of verification. I've been talking to a treasurer this morning, who said to me, "With the means we have, how can we do these checks?" If they do not let us have more means by law, they do not let us hire more people, they do not let us expand the templates, with the same templates we will be able to make these new checks? It'll have to be a car of faith. Thirdly, what will happen to the income loss of the municipalities? It is clear that with this reform the municipalities are going to lose a substantial part of their income and we will therefore have to see what happens, whether or not the state is going to compensate for this loss. Finally, it seems that this is going to be an interim reform. Let's hope it doesn't last long, because we've been talking about the Local Financing Act for a long time and you had an absolute majority and you didn't do anything and in this legislature, as I see it, it's not going to come out either. It is a law that they are asking for municipalities of all political colors and we think that a local financing law should be promoted once and for all. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u24	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Madrazo, you will count on our support for the initiation of the processing. If any reproach we have to make it is the sentence of 11 May; more than a year ago a sentence was handed down that already predicted this. And the agreement with the FEMP is from the beginning of January, five months ago. The situation is slowing down. It is necessary to give legal certainty to the administration and the administration, in this case to local corporations. I would like to say to you that my group is going to table amendments, in addition to some technical improvement, on an issue with which the EMFF agrees, which is also calling for it. A specific compensation fund will have to be provided to deal with situations that can occur retroactively in surplus-value settlements in municipalities, which are not responsible for this situation. We will see whether this fund will have to be returned or not, but from our point of view at least it would not have to generate interest. It will have to solve the situation in which some municipalities can be found, if it wants to be very concrete, but with a serious problem, because for some municipalities during some years the tax collection on the increase of the value of the land of urban nature has generated many revenues. We will therefore vote in favour, but we note that we will be tabling amendments. The solution sought by the People's Group has been to make a tailor's drawer and - he said -...and other tax rules. That is to say, you amend three taxes and we are going to take the liberty of tabling amendments to amend some other tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Madrazo, good afternoon. Good afternoon. We'll start by saying the obvious. This proposal for a government law is nothing more than an omnibus proposal, a patchwork, a tailor's drawer that you use to make a series of repairs to various existing misguided ones as uneven as a Constitutional Court ruling on the increase in the value of urban land, the unwillingness to tax the aid received by the victims of the Germanwings flight accident, a patch to the inheritance and donation tax or the adaptation to the Community law of the tax system of sponsorship. It is a proposal for a law that is no less necessary. It is the fruit of necessity because they are real problems and action must be taken. We understand, however, that the measures are minimal without solving the root causes of these problems. With regard to the value tax on land of urban nature, in the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we agree on the need to amend the Law Regulating Local Finances in order to adapt it to the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The first objective must be to put an end to an unfair situation that obliges many taxpayers to tax on non-existent profits and, at the same time, to make it easier for municipalities to liquidate the tax with full legal certainty. In fact, you will recall that during the process of processing the 2017 State General Budgets our group has already tabled an amendment to urgently amend the Local Finance Regulatory Law along the lines of the text that you - the government - are now presenting to give a quick response to taxpayers and municipalities in the face of the uncertainty generated by the judgment. The bill itself recognizes that the objective is to provide a quick response and that a thorough reform will have to be postponed to the framework of local funding reform. That amendment we tabled in 2017 had the same purpose as all the others: the recycled paper container. And here we are at the end of other budgets and another year starting the procedures to adapt the Finance Act almost a year after the first ruling of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the proposed text, I will only make a few comments. As I said, it does not solve the fundamental problem, a very Rajonian practice. We are faced with a tax that imposes the increase in the value of urban land, that is, the re-evaluation that a land experiences only because of the evolution of the years. Therefore, the very nature of the tax assumes that the land always gains value, in a homogeneous way, with the same coefficients throughout the territory and without considering the differences in the antiquity of the presentation of cadastral values of each municipality. The solution proposed by the State therefore becomes a measure of urgency, but does not correct the origin of the conflict, which is precisely the assumption of an increase in fictitious value. The change is limited to ensuring that the tax is not liquidated where there is no need to increase value on the basis of sales deed. Nor does the reform of the Government assume the retroactivity of the rule, which does incorporate the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Other concerns of his proposal are that he does not define important aspects concerning the management of the tax, nor does he define the mechanisms of collaboration and exchange of information between administrations, does not include the method of calculation to determine the increase in the value of transmissions that have undergone physical or legal alterations and, finally, the definition of this method of calculation makes it difficult to optimal budgetary planning for the municipalities. The proposal does not incorporate a compensation scheme for municipalities. Notice, Mrs Madrazo, according to the settlement data published by the Ministry of Finance in 2015, the municipalities entered 2677 million euros for this tax, representing almost 10% of the total municipal tax revenue, and in the case of the Catalan municipalities, 531 million euros. The importance of this tax in the whole of the local financing system and in the maintenance of public services provided by the municipalities is therefore undisputed. We want to prevent the case of surplus value from becoming a conflict comparable to that of the IAE or the IBI of the motorways, and we believe that it is necessary to do so from the outset, that is, from the current regulatory amendment of the Finance Act proposed to us by the Government. We have already announced that it will give us work, because we will propose to you the creation of a specific fund that is incorporated as an additional provision to the Local Finance Act and that it will collect an annual compensation equivalent to the difference between the actual income with the new method of calculation and the theoretical income with the previous method of calculation. We will propose the creation of an extraordinary fund aimed at compensating the contributions returned with retroactive effects on those liquidations that are not firm and consensual and we will propose the creation of an extraordinary interest-free financing mechanism so that municipalities can respond to the return of net contributions without the existence of an increase in value. The aim of this measure is obviously to prevent the municipalities from suffering from treasury tensions and to bear the additional financial costs caused by the delay in their government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u28	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed law brought to us by the People's Group on the amendment of the Local Finance Act, theoretically to comply with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, is for our group a fraud against taxpayers, the Constitutional Court and an elementary tax justice. Ladies and gentlemen, for almost thirty years bipartisanism has imposed a tax, the municipal surplus, the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature, which made when it was sold at a loss because a taxpayer lost money by selling his house, yet it had to tax as if he had won the city council, and this is not that it is a high tax, it is that it is simple and completely confiscatory. This comes from the Local Finance Act of 1988, almost thirty years ago, and although it has been said here that what the Constitutional Court did in 2017 was a serious breach, it seems to us that it is a matter of elementary justice, and we do not want that through a proposed law, which we also find extremely unfair, the rights of the taxpayer be curtailed. Therefore, as we had anticipated and have already made various groups in this House, we will vote against this bill, and I will explain why. In the first place, it is essential for us to guarantee the interests of taxpayers, to ensure that the Constitution is complied with and that taxes cannot be confiscated, and the first point that is obviously not to be received is that this bill will have effect on June 15, 2017, the date of publication of the last ruling of the Constitutional Court concerning municipal surplus value. What does this mean? That with this bill before June 15, 2017, taxpayers would not be entitled to be returned the money, would not be entitled to be recognized as having had losses and would be taxed as if they had income. For us all this is simple and completely unacceptable, and it is particularly unacceptable because neither in the judgment of 16 February 2017 nor in the last, of 11 May 2017, the Constitutional Court reduced the retroactive effects, and that could have been done in accordance with article 40 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. [[The lady]] Therefore, all this should apply, as any other sentence and as it has passed in other similar cases, to the past, into the last four years not prescribed. Leave thousands and thousands of taxpayers behind, demanding them to plead against the municipalities, it seems to us smooth and flatly unacceptable. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 February 2017 the Constitutional Court, unanimously of the plenary, said that it was unconstitutional a foral rule of Guipúzcoa whose text was literally based on the Local Finance Act. Obviously, what should have been done was to anticipate this situation in order to begin to resolve it. This was done by my group, which, on 22 March 2017, brought a bill to the Finance Commission to settle this issue. What has the government done? Literally nothing, because the People's Group brings us here a bill basically to skip the process of the bill. This avoids the opinion of the Council of State, but the Council of State would have told him the same thing that we have told him from this rostrum, and it is that the People's Group cannot do anything about limiting the effects of a unconstitutionality that has not restricted the full constitutionality on a repeated basis; it limits to the detriment of taxpayers who have lost money and who have been taxed as if they had won and who, with the proposed law of the People's Party, would continue in this situation until June 15, 2017, because it is not even until the date of the last sentence, but until a month later, when it gave them the opportunity to publish this judgment in the State's Official Gazette. We therefore believe that this bill is not only a fraud against the taxpayer, but also a fraud against the Constitutional Court and elementary justice. On the other hand, it seems that all the other groups are concerned about the finances of the municipalities and not that taxpayers who have lost money pay as if they had won. [[Applauds]] What brings us here this bill? Firstly, as we have already said, the retroactive effects against the Constitutional Court's criterion should be eliminated. And, secondly, raise short-term taxes with this surplus value to compensate the municipalities. As my colleague Begoña Villacís says, I do not understand why we must raise taxes in municipalities where there is a surplus, as if we could not cut into superfluous expenses or fight fraud. And what I find impressive is that if the municipalities, in use of their municipal autonomy and in a powerful tax want to raise taxes, at least that they raise them; we will not raise them from here. In our view this makes no sense when we talk about municipalities that are clearly healthy and that intend to raise taxes and then, on top of that, do not return taxes that have been confiscated, and that is not what we say, says the Constitutional Court. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a minimally reasonable approach. And yet, the rise of taxes can even be discussed, but not return taxes collected confiscatoryly after repeated rulings of the Constitutional Court, where taxpayers are systematically winning all resources... In other words, what they bring us here seems not only to us to be a huge burden on the Council of State, but above all to be unjust and intolerable. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we literally have the exhausted legislature. Some parties have confused the general interest with the electoral interest. [[Rumors.-Some Members: There!]] They believed that demanding overprices in the works...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u31	This also goes for the Socialist Party, which has been believed to demand overprices in the works to then finance electoral acts - as has the People's Party - is a general interest. For us that was rather electoral interest. [[Applauds]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this legislature is literally exhausted, this no longer gives any more of itself. It's been a while since you brought in this bill of law year and a half. We do not have a year and a half ahead here to process this bill, to get a minimally acceptable result and to reach a solution that does not undermine the rights that the Constitutional Court has granted to taxpayers. We will therefore vote against it, because it is an intolerable shame, because it goes against the rights of taxpayers and, above all, because all this no longer gives more of itself. This motion for a law - I conclude, Madam President - for better or for worse will not come into force because - even if we hope that Mr Sánchez's Frankenstein motion does not come out - this government is disabled. It should have complied with the Constitutional Court and, above all, with the Spanish much earlier. What we need to do now is to give back the word to the Spaniards so that they can arrange, among others, this disguised one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u33	Thank you, President. The configuration of this tax is very illustrative of what has happened in this country with urban soils and housing. The tax was actually based on the assumption that there would always be an increase in value, that that was the logical evolution of the real estate market and the value of urban land. Obviously, when the bubble burst, the value of real estate fell; a circumstance not provided for in the regulations. Now the problem is serious, because since the ruling of the Constitutional Court and even before - since there had already been judicial rulings questioning the tax configuration - we are facing a serious problem because of the legal uncertainty caused and the delay in changing the regulation of municipal capital gains. The door has been opened for claims to be made in the event of both an increase and a loss in the value of the land. There have been judgments that state that the tax should not be paid even in the event of an increase in value, since it is considered that the new regulation does not allow the tax to be settled. And who goes to court? Large companies, which have the resources to do so and which have speculated and achieved great benefits through the sale of land and real estate. The statement of reasons for this bill states that it is being submitted to give a prompt response to the Constitutional Court's mandate. Quick, it's not fast either. The last judgement of the court is of May 2017 and the previous one of February 2017, although the conflict dates back to 2012, with several judgments of unfavorable courts of justice, and the agreement with the FEMP is of January. So, fast, fast isn't exactly it. You have contributed to that legal uncertainty. The inaction of the Government is causing serious damage to the municipalities. There are many municipalities that are currently entering virtually nothing or very little for this tax, when it is one of their main sources of income. Getting into the contents. There is a need to identify a conceptual problem that needs to be addressed sooner or later. This should not be a tax, so to speak, on speculation, on the gain obtained from the sale of land or property that reverts to the municipal coffers. The aim of the municipalities is not to encourage speculation to collect more. The objective of the tax is to contribute to the maintenance of municipal services that contribute to the higher value of land and buildings. There is therefore a contradiction between the name of the tax and its actual objective. In fact, the Committee of Experts itself, which drew up the local financing report, proposes replacing this tax with an urban capital gains tax that would affect the taxable person's real economic capacity. What concerns us about the regulation proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group, to which we are going to submit various amendments to correct? We are concerned that in order to prove the lack of value, the payments actually satisfied are taken, that is, the deed, with the risk - in quotes - of incentivizing that the actual selling price is not declared in order not to pay the tax. We are concerned that there are no circumstances in which the property that is acquired has anything to do with which it is transmitted, e.g. in the case of the purchase of a plot and the subsequent joint sale of a promotion of dwellings and premises in which the values to be compared are different. We consider it absolutely unjustified to exclude as taxable persons companies which are in some of the situations laid down in the company tax - special regime for mergers, divisions, contributions of assets, exchange of securities, change of registered office - because in practice it can lead to delay or exemption from the payment of taxes through financial and business architectures with the consequent damage to the municipal coffers. The European directive regulating these cases already lays down the formula for the tax to be applied in these cases. A homogeneous treatment is given, with the same coefficients, to local realities that are very different. The evolution of the real estate market is very different between large cities, such as Madrid or Barcelona, and small and medium-sized cities. A legal vacuum is created with the cases before May 2017, the date of the ruling of the Constitutional Court and from which it produces effects and the date of entry into force of the amendments to this proposal of law regarding the non-subjection to the tax for lack of value, since the ruling of the TC does not limit the temporary effects of the latter. This legal vacuum puts the municipalities in a very difficult situation. The lack of legal regulation of these cases can increase conflict, with the risk that municipalities will provide different solutions. The most serious problem, which is not solved in this proposal for a law, is the loss of income that the municipalities are going to have, which can suffer a decrease in their income, according to the federation of municipalities, of 20% of the collection. There are already studies by the Ministry of Finance itself that place them at 26%, almost 600 million in total. Barcelona can assume a decrease of the collection of 50 million and Zaragoza of 10 million euros, just to give some examples. It is a tax that accounts for 10% of ordinary income in many municipalities. The legal regulation of this tax is the responsibility of the Government of the State, which has the bulk of the regulatory power. The design of the tax and its continuity over time is the sole responsibility of the Government, not of the municipalities, and it is therefore necessary to compensate for the loss of revenue to be incurred, the returns to be made by judicial decisions and the effects of the new regulation. The process of amendments must be used to negotiate solutions to this problem with the municipalities and parliamentary groups. We will not pass the law if we do not reach an agreement on compensation to the municipalities, I want to make it very clear. In this regard, we do not believe that the negotiation with the EMFF has been entirely satisfactory. This has to be addressed during the process of this bill. We have a precedent in this regard. Already in 2003 the municipalities were compensated for the abolition of the IAE, and Minister Montoro himself did. Bad legislation on the part of the State cannot fall on the backs of local corporations and therefore on the whole of the citizenry. Basically, we are discussing local funding, and this bill by the Government is simply a patch. The current government - and I say today because we hope that it will be the past government and that the motion of censure will succeed - is a declared enemy of municipal autonomy, the government that has most legislated against the municipalities, as LRSAL demonstrates, as the Montoro laws against public services demonstrate, as the application of the spending rule demonstrates, as the limitations on the replacement rate of public workers, as shown by the budget cuts, which have already become chronic. That is what needs to be addressed at once, municipal funding, which has not been touched for 14 years. The weight of municipalities in all public administrations is lower than it was 14 years ago; we have increased from 30 % to 14%. We need once and for all a majority of municipalist government and not contrary to municipalism, because municipalism is more democracy and more social rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you not think that this bill is too late for the Congress of Deputies? I do not know if some of you are mayors or mayors and if you talk to the mayors and mayors who are in your land and whose constituencies are deputies, but you all know, without a doubt, that citizens have been presenting for many years many resources in the municipalities denouncing an unfair application of the so-called surplus-value tax. In September 2015, the Plenary of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces warned the Government that this tax should be amended urgently. It's been two years and eight months. In May 2017, the Constitutional Court - as you all know and as we have heard repeatedly today - questioned the collection of the so-called surplus-value tax in a judgment that it was not legal to charge this tax in cases where there had been no profit. Since then, it's been a year. The Government has not dealt with the legislative reforms indicated by the sentence and the municipalities have been in place for more than twelve months, I insist, in a situation of uncertainty, legal vacuum and huge defencelessness, and citizenship as well, because this sentence opened the doors to thousands of people who could claim 100 per cent of what was paid in cases where the house had been sold with losses. [[applause]] And the municipalities, once again, bearing in mind in the municipal coffers the return of an ill-designed tax, without any compensation from the government, which has once again returned to the municipalities in breach of their obligation to legislate on this matter. The spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group told us that they had made a great effort to bring this bill to Congress. We have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you have had to make a great effort to legislate on something that affects the municipalities, because it is well known to all that this is the most anti-municipalist government of democracy, a government that has suffocated the municipal coffers and has curtailed local autonomy. They have also had to make a great effort to negotiate, in this case, with the FEMP, because we all know that negotiating and consensusing is not their thing. And we also know that when they negotiate and then compromise they do not comply; they are unable to comply with the pact, as we have seen in the Pact on Gender Violence, on gender-based violence. This bill that you bring here, ladies and gentlemen, is late. The Ministry of Finance and the FEMP, last December, reached an agreement to allow the modification of the municipal surplus tax, which was ratified at the FEMP's governing board on 9 January. The effort has cost them five months since the agreement. The Montoro agreement with the FEMP is the basis of this reform, ladies and gentlemen, which amends the Local Finance Regulatory Act with regard to introducing the case of non-application in cases where the citizen believes that he has not obtained an increase in value. That is why we will vote in favour of this bill, because there is a great legal uncertainty and a legal vacuum that could not be maintained; because we are pleased to know that citizenship will benefit from this measure; and because, moreover, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are aware that this tribute, the municipal surplus, is an important source of income for the Spanish municipalities. We are concerned that the inactivity of the Government, the desire of the Government in this area, has further increased the scarcity of resources in the municipalities. We therefore agree with some of the groups that have preceded us in the use of the floor and with the FEMP on the need to establish a compensatory and sufficient mechanism to compensate the lower income of the municipalities for the implementation of this reform of the norm. For this reason, the Government must already establish a negotiation with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to avoid what has already happened with the economic activity tax. One cannot continue to rule behind the backs of the municipalities; they are the administration closest to the citizens, the first door they call when they have a problem. It is essential to address, as soon as possible, a local funding law that gives more flexibility and needs to be done in parallel with the design of autonomous financing. We're not gonna get tired of repeating it. The FEMP today called for a new model of local funding. It is also urgent to make the spending rule more flexible. Last September, a committee was set up to analyse the expenditure rule made up of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, and no proposals have even been met or put forward by the Government in this area. I insist, nothing is fulfilled of what is agreed with the municipalities, hence the constant anger of the mayors of all colors, also of the People's Party, for the repeated non-compliances of the People's Party Government. We also told them, and we are not tired of repeating it, that Minister Montoro is going to go into history as the most anti-municipalist in democracy, a minister who imposed a rule of spending and an inflexible spending ceiling for the municipalities, which does not allow them to use the more than 25 billion euros they have in the banks and who has managed to curb the replacement rate and freeze the staffing of the municipalities, which today have 100,000 public employees less than in 2011. And in a local policy debate, I am obliged to remind the Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría, who has not convened the plenary session of the National Commission of Local Administration for a whole year, which is the body in which the Government informs municipal representatives about the fiscal consolidation path and also about those initiatives that affect local authorities. Since June last year, the committee's plenary session has not met and has not been informed on issues that have been dealt with in this House, of vital importance to local authorities, such as the actual decree of surplus, the actual decree regulating national authorities in the field of minor local authorities or the modification of capital gains, which we are talking about today. The Socialists reject this way of doing politics. We reject the way you do what you have in your own way, without agreement, without prior negotiation. We believe that things can be done differently: with agreements, with pacts, with negotiation. As far as municipal politics is concerned, since January 2012, the People's Party government has chosen to forget about the municipalities and give them insignificant value. We are convinced that they have been wrong. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u37	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the integral rescue of the Public Function. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u38	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Our public administrations are on the verge of collapse and both structural reform and a series of palliative measures are urgently needed to prevent them from entering a coma. Just a few weeks ago we approved here those that will be possibly - we don't know for sure yet - the general budgets for the remainder of 2018, and in them some of the issues that we requested in this initiative were partially taken up. Of course, that is not thanks to this Government, which since it arrived in 2011 has only torpedoed and razed the public, but because of the work of public employees and trade union forces, which for many years have been shouting in the sky for the current situation of our public administrations. From here my first words are of thanks to them and to them because they have managed to give some oxygen to our poor administration, and we hope and demand that these issues be fulfilled regardless of what happens on Friday. Having said that, we must remember that many of the agreed points have not been reflected in the budgets and that many others are partly in the form of lifeboats for a ship that is about to sink after eight years of cuts by the People's Party, of cutbacks. And it is that, although this agreement, in its incorporation into the general budgets in some public administrations, could be translated into job creation, this is not going to be a general thing or at least not for the general administration. We recall that since 2011 140 000 public jobs have been lost and that this translates into services that are provided every day more precariously. Ladies and gentlemen, there are children behind these services, there are elderly people, there are sick people or there are women victims of sexist violence who are not being prevented at all. With the measures contained in the general budgets only the hemorrhage is stopped, but our public administrations need immediately a much stronger blood transfusion to be able to walk, and that can only be done by eliminating the replacement rate and calling for an extraordinary public offer of employment. As far as the replacement rate is concerned, it is true that the agreement reached in the general budgets is progressing in the possibility of having a replacement rate of 100 % or slightly higher, but this seems to be linked to multiple conditionalities controlled by the State, which paternally supervises the expenditure of the various territories. It should be for each administration, within its budgetary resources, to decide to apply the expenditure to the chapter it deems appropriate. The replacement rate is an intrusion into municipal and autonomous autonomy and, moreover, it does not represent a saving measure, but it is an interesting conduct on how resources are spent in the different administrations. I do not know what makes Mr Montoro think that he will be better able to manage resources than the communities and municipalities, also taking into account that his Secretary of State for Finance is imputed. We therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to abolish the replacement rate without any exceptions. Along with this, we still find an extraordinary job offer to replace the job that has been destroyed since 2009. The loss of public employment only in the Central Administration has accumulated, in the period 2008-2016, 41,426 employees; only 4249 jobs have been destroyed in the social security field since 2009. It is true that the extraordinary offer of July created 2026 seats in the General Administration of the State, but they will agree with me that 40,000 accumulated losses compared to 2000 is very insufficient. There are areas where there is a strong and urgent need to intervene, for example, in centres for the care of citizens and in all centres for the management of social security. At present there are thirty-nine offices of the Treasury and the General Institute of Social Security that are attended by a single official or official, who cannot get bad, take vacations or permits because their offices close and the citizens would be unattended. Other examples are the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, where the loss of personnel in the last four years reaches 13% of its staff, and the various research bodies under the General Administration of the State, from the Higher Council of Scientific Research, the National Institute of Aerospace Technique, through the Ciemat, or the Carlos III Institute of Health. In all of them, the uncertainty situation is incompatible with the creation of the necessary basis for the research that our country urgently requires. On the other hand, it is true that the general budgets provide for a forecast of wage improvements over the past year, but, as we have pointed out before, this is only a patch of containment. Public employees have lost between 13 and 16 % of their purchasing power in the last eight years. Do you not think that at a time of economic growth like the present the minimum would be to give them back what belongs to them in these budgets? The Government's proposal barely equates the salary recovery to the CPI this year. As we said before, these are patches and more patches, but the lost does not return. In this respect, our parliamentary group has proposed an increase of 2.75 % in these general budgets, with a plan that will allow us to recover the lost within five years. With regard to the possibility that each public administration could negotiate its working day, it seems to us that this should not be conditional on financial situations of the public administrations, but that it would be more reasonable than each administration, by virtue of the powers conferred on it by the statutes of autonomy or by the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, to decide, autonomously, on its own working day. The same applies to the recovery of wages due to temporary incapacity. I'm done. All these issues have been addressed in the general budget debate; however, we believe that much remains to be done. The measures contained in this non-legislative proposal are also reflected in amendments that we have tabled to these budgets and that can still be voted in the Senate, except those that you have vetoed us, of course. I call on the rest of the political groups here to study them and to start the way to implement them, because it would substantially improve public employment and, therefore, the public services that have suffered so much in our country. We already know - and with the Gürtel ruling we have been confirmed - that the People's Party plunders the public to fill its pockets. However, I give you good news: you have the last opportunity in the Senate to implement these measures. This is not going to make up for everything you've done, but you might lighten your conscience a little bit. If not, do not worry; from this Friday we hope to be able to remove the Government of the People's Party, the Government of the enemies of the public, to return the administrations to the place they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u39	Thank you very much, Mr González García. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea spoke in defence of the amendments made by her group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u40	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. The 2012 State General Budgets Act contained a series of staff measures that addressed a serious economic situation and whose claim was to address the excessive public deficit in order to achieve the sustainability of public finances in the medium term by containing expenditure in the financial year. The corollary of measures provided, inter alia, for the non-increase in the salaries of public sector staff, the prohibition on the inclusion of new staff except in specific public areas, restrictions on temporary recruitment in the public sector, the reduction of staff by amortization of places in a number equivalent to the number of retirements that had taken place and the establishment in the whole public sector of a general working day for their staff. The Government's action following the adoption of the 2012 Budget Act in order to continue to address the virulence of the economic crisis, added to the measures mentioned another package of actions of short-term demand and impact on the limitation of staff costs through the adoption of a number of rules that established, among other issues, the non-perception by public sector staff of the 2012 extraordinary pay, as well as a number of amendments to the Staff Regulations Act, in articles 48 and 50. It should be recognized that a number of the measures mentioned above have been mitigated over the past few years, even in some cases reaching their practical derogation, in view of overcoming the cyclical situation of the economic crisis they faced. Thus, in the light of the improvement of the general economic perspective, the prohibition of new recruitment of staff into the public sector has been dulified, among other issues, and the allowable replacement rate has been progressively increased and the aspects of the Law on the Basic Status of Public Employees, temporarily modified, such as the return of overtime, for example, have been virtually reversed to the previous situation. However, while some of the measures adopted have been dulified and eliminated, there are others that we believe need to be addressed and that are addressed in this non-legislative proposal, such as the establishment of a minimum working day for public sector staff, which has been a source of controversy between various public administrations, a measure which escapes its obvious short-term nature, despite the improvement of the general economic perspective, and which, on the other hand, significantly alters and distorts the competition and liability framework for the various public administrations, thus adversely affecting the possibilities of deploying collective bargaining within them and of adapting staff management to their specific needs and conditions. Having said all this, and in relation to the approach proposed in this non-legislative proposal, the following points should be made, and we have therefore amended them. The approach to the elimination of the replacement rate, in our view, is correct, since it absolutely limits the possibility of human resources management in the various organizations and the intended recovery of access restrictions imposed in recent years, taking into account both the context of the replacement rate and even the so-called additional rate of temporary employment stabilization for certain areas. The approach to the recovery of purchasing power by staff should refer to collective bargaining in each of the administrations, in accordance with article 37 of the Basic Staff Regulations Act, both with regard to the amounts, with the corresponding budgetary limits, and to the possible timetables for negotiation to be established by each administration with trade union organizations in their respective fields. That is why we have proposed a new text in the non-legislative proposal. With regard to the third point, it should be said that the Budget Law for 2018, in its additional fifty-fifth provision, recognizes the capacity of each public administration to determine in collective bargaining the complements to be received by staff in temporary incapacity up to a maximum of one hundred per cent of their salaries, so it would initially seem to resolve the issue, but given that the Budget Law has to be passed by the Senate and given the uncertainty that exists at this time it seems that it may make sense to maintain this issue in the non-law proposal. With regard to the fourth point, this group proposes a new wording, since it is necessary to restore the bargaining capacity of the working day to each public administration, but it must be each administration that establishes its working day according to its organizational needs and always in accordance with the corresponding negotiating processes within it. With regard to the fifth point, the stabilization of temporary employment, we believe that if the replacement rate is eliminated in the terms set out in the first point of this non-legislative proposal, it is not necessary to add an additional replacement rate for this one, and on the other hand the decision on this stabilization, its quantitative determination and in time to materialize should also correspond to each of the administrations. With regard to the last point in the non-legislative proposal, nothing to point to this approach concerning State administration, which seems to be correct. That is why, having proposed amendments to this non-legislative proposal, we will fix our position as soon as we know whether or not they are accepted by the proposing group. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u42	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to point out that we are talking about public employees and public services, but the Minister of Finance and Public Service is not here. Of course, he has little interest in public services and public employees. Then I wanted to highlight the importance of public services for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and therefore the importance of public employees as true guarantors of them. Regrettably, these last years of the People's Party's government have led to a significant deterioration in public services and their quality, due to the policy of abandonment imposed by the People's Party. The right never showed a preference for public services, nor have the Rajoy governments. Its bet has been a different one: to limit, to stifle public administrations in order first to cause the greatest loss of public employment in Spanish democracy, and secondly, to prevent the free call for the offer of public employment. Undoubtedly, the policy of abandoning the civil service and the public administration has led the Rajoy Government to take away rights to citizenship, by enlarging public services and slimming the workforce through the establishment of replacement rates that have gradually reduced the number of staff available to the administration to provide adequate care to those in need of public services, who are no more than citizens of that country. The downsizing has reached almost all areas, as the Socialist Group has been warning all these years, giving rise to situations of real emergency. Just put some examples that are perfectly obvious. I could talk to you about public employees such as primary care doctors, pediatricians, specialists, teachers, teachers, police, the Civil Guard, or local police, but also about staff from prison institutions, justice, technicians from employment offices or public employees of the local government. And there are more examples, ladies and gentlemen, of public employees. We talk about the technicians of the DNI's dispatch offices, the public employment services, the Labour Inspectorate, the Social Security, the Tax Agency. In all these areas, the number of public employees has been reduced and the number of employees has decreased. The reduction in the number of public employees that has occurred in recent years has resulted in an alarming staffing deficit, which has not been recognized and which has not been addressed so far. That is why last year the Government came to us in haste and brought to validate two royal decree-laws after the agreement with the unions, and more so because of necessity than by conviction, to try to put a patch to a situation that has been deteriorating for years. This year they have again reached an agreement with the most representative trade union centres of public employees where some of the lost public rights of these employees are recovered, but part of that agreement is reflected in the draft general budget law being processed. As I said, this has been done by the efforts and the hard work of public employees and their trade union representatives, not by the will of the Government. We regret that they did not accept the Socialist Group's amendment which was to improve the agreement, and above all to achieve the recovery of those lost rights. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we demand that the Government develop a genuine human resources policy in public services based on rigour and seriousness, not pressure and improvisation. The offer of public employment means beginning to slightly recover the public employment that the policies of savage austerity of the People's Party Government, of the Rajoy Government, have diminished. It should be remembered that they led to the destruction of more than 300,000 public jobs. Its policies have sought to undermine public services, knowing that the welfare state was at risk. Fortunately, the effort and work of thousands of public employees have been decisive for their maintenance. In the parliamentary procedure for approving the budgets, as I said earlier, we have already warned that the public employment figures they proposed were not enough. We are introducing amendments to abolish the replacement rate and to increase at least 150% in sectors of special social sensitivity, because they are related to essential public services and to the fight against corruption and fraud. But the People's Party did not accept any of our amendments. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative presented by Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and which we are debating has its raison d'être. The Socialist Parliamentary Group shares the need to eliminate the replacement rate, so that different public administrations can meet their staffing needs, according to their budgetary availability. In addition, it is absolutely necessary to recover the integrity of the temporary disability benefit and the bargaining capacity of the thirty-five-hour day, such as fully regaining the purchasing power lost by public employees in the years of crisis. However, ladies and gentlemen, despite the above, the Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to delete and amend the fifth and sixth points in the event that this rate of free replenishment is not established. For the creation of net employment, we must go to a replenishment rate of just over 100 percent, at least in general government or at a replenishment rate of 150%, at least also in priority services. In short, ladies and gentlemen, since the process of reducing the general government deficit and containing public expenditure in recent years has made it impossible to reduce its workforce, we believe it is necessary to increase the supply of public employment or another similar management tool for the provision of staff. We continue to demand that administrations be free, that they have the autonomy established by the Constitution and its Statute of Autonomy, and that they devote their efforts and priorities to allocating public employment to those basic and necessary services to provide quality public services. The Socialist Group therefore urges the political forces to take the necessary steps to recover the quality of the most essential public services, severely hit by the cuts of the People's Party, and therefore to recover the quality of public services in this country and the dignity of public employees. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Serrano Jiménez. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u44	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and share the spirit of the proposal, and therefore we are already telling you that, although we do not share 100% of the literality of the proposal, we will support it. I must also tell you that surely, if you would accept the two amendments of the PNV Parliamentary Group, we would feel more comfortable because we understand that they are well drafted and correct. The question of the replacement rate is an issue that we have discussed on many occasions. We're not gonna get tired of claiming it. Establishing a mandatory replacement rate for local governments or autonomous communities is an attempt to maintain self-reliance, and in some cases does not make any sense. Imagine - because there are - municipalities with zero debt, with remnant of positive treasury, with a positive budgetary result repeatedly. What's the point of establishing it? Why do they have to guard them to say what replacement rate should be set? It really doesn't make any sense; it's either not believing that of local autonomy. In similar terms are the other proposals. It is true that point five of both the original proposal and the Socialist Group's amendment seem to us to be that of: since we already know that they are not going to comply with the first point... Man, no! If we approve it is for it to be fulfilled and for there to be no replacement rate. For whatever it is to admit that we are going to approve it, but we already know that they are not going to comply but they are going to comply with the fifth, because if they do not comply with the first they will certainly not comply with the fifth. As far as the recovery of purchasing power is concerned, we also think it is right, but we believe that, while respecting the autonomy of decision-making and management of each of the administrations, it should be possible to allow for the negotiation by each administration to achieve this recovery of purchasing power. We would therefore also feel more comfortable in the proposal for the amendment by the Basque Parliamentary Group. With regard to the establishment of working time, which was one of the changes that affected other levels of the administration, we are on the same line: within the framework of the EBEP that could be negotiated, that there would be room for negotiation, and I speak to you from experience, because at the municipal level it is certainly another element of negotiation, and it makes no sense to stick to the local councils and corporations that in all cases since 2012 have met all the objectives of fiscal consolidation, which unfortunately cannot be said either by Minister Montoro or by the Government of the State. We therefore believe that an effort should also be made in this regard. And one last thought to finish. Listen, if the central administration and social security fail to meet the deficit targets, it can be understood that additional mechanisms need to be put in place to limit their decision-making capacity and spending capacity, and at the end of which we will establish them in this House. But to establish it to the Generalitat of Catalonia above what the Parliament of Catalonia says makes no sense; and to establish it to each of the local corporations above what the full ones say, if these local corporations are presenting a healthy or very healthy or completely healthy financial situation, neither does it make sense. Therefore, if the amendments are accepted, we will certainly vote in favour, but if they are not, we will also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u46	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. In this regard, I would say that we agree with the diagnosis presented in this non-legislative proposal, because the Public Service has been facing serious difficulties since 2009, that is to say, almost a decade ago; and among other things, we agree that staffing levels have clearly been reduced due to the imposition of rachytic or non-existent replenishment rates within the public sector, which have aged staffing levels over the past seven years: only one seat has been filled for every ten retired officials. The labour functions of public administration and services staff, and in particular their salaries, have also been devalued. Temporary employment and outsourcing have been encouraged to cover services that could previously be assumed directly by the administrations themselves. In short, the evil so-called crisis - I prefer to change the word and call it the great feast of the financial system at the cost of 99% of the population - has been the direct culprit and also the perfect excuse to substantially worsen the services provided by public workers to citizens. A fragrant example we have within the Public Administration in Post Office. It is a clear example of public service that has deteriorated and needs to be politically bet on it and urgently implemented a rescue plan. With some 57 000 workers it is the largest public enterprise in number of employees, I insist, public enterprise with 100 per cent public capital that year after year, in the so-called crisis, but also last year, year in which according to the government we were already in full recovery and wind in aft, Post has had to cut more than 123 million euros, and this year despite the amendments presented will again suffer in the General Budgets of the State of 2018 a cut of 60 million euros. That is, either economic recovery is a bubble or bet to liquidate Posts, as these cuts are not free. They will have serious repercussions in the form of millionaire losses, job losses, and will endanger the viability of a strategic and public enterprise such as Post Offices. That is why we assume the demands of the trade union, a plan for the provision of universal postal services to ensure the provision of this public service to citizens, as well as an economic item calculated objectively, and which does not depend on the political will in every procedure of the General Budgets of the State. But the case of the postal workers, whom we encourage to continue their fight in defense of their working conditions and in defense of the postal public service, is just one example of a problem that extends to the entire public service, as has become clear in this non-law proposal. That Post Offices and public services need a sufficient staff is of drawer; that there can be no precariousness in public enterprises in the form of eventuality, minijobs and workloads is also evident, and that it is necessary to recover the lost purchasing power and a long et cetera is also evident, but Post Offices as I said is just an example. As an important figure for you to see what we are saying, I have to say that, according to the unions, the number of civil servants that is missing in order to be able to provide quality services amounts to about 356,000 people. Of these, 24 000 correspond to the General Administration of the State, 40 000 to the Autonomous Administration, 91 000 to the Local Administration, 107 000 to the educational system and 94 000 to the health system. That is why we will vote in favour of this initiative, which seems to us to be a good initiative that places a problem in the civil service on the table of the Government, which must be resolved urgently. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador i Duch. Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, from Citizens we certainly share the importance of public employees, and hence of the functions they perform. Some forget that we are talking about a collective that has as its main function the execution and development of all the actions and functions included in public policies, and therefore of public services. We talk about our teachers, our health personnel, our State Security Forces and Corpses, our prison officials, and ultimately our public servants. From Citizens we want to value our public employees and of course we have to defend that absurd belief that in Spain we have many officials. It is not true, in fact the percentage of civil servants/population is among the minors in Europe. As we almost always share the diagnosis with the Members of Podemos. Mr González, I have to tell you that I agree with you that the crisis cost you the extra pay for 2012, a 5% cut in the salaries for 2010, the subsequent freezing of wages in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the reduction of the days of moscows and the reduction of staff for lack of replacement. But let's look at your proposal. You speak, in six points, among other things, of eliminating the replacement rate, of regaining purchasing power, of restoring the bargaining capacity of the day, and of restoring the integrity of the temporary disability benefit. I must say, Mr González, that as they are almost always late, and they are also not credible as advocates of the cause that they bring to the plenary. Nothing they're proposing is new, and besides, Podemos doesn't think of going down from the no is no. We must get down to the negotiating arena in order to advance these demands or at least to try to advance their implementation someday. At another time I assure you that I would appreciate the importance of wanting to negotiate to achieve the objectives, the fundamental milestones to reverse this situation, but let me give you an example, Mr González. What would you think if we talked about a 1.75 % wage increase in 2018, a 2.25% increase in 2019 or a 2% increase in 2020? In short, public employees have a guaranteed increase of 6,1 % and, depending on economic growth, even 8,79 %. What would you think of a 100 percent replacement rate in healthy administrations and in priority sectors - health and education - and 75% in the rest? What would you think if we universalised the process of stabilising public employment, which aims at 8% in the rate of temporaryity in public administrations by 2020? How would you feel about collective bargaining opening the door to the recovery of thirty-five hours a week and the recovery of one hundred percent of wages in the event of temporary incapacity? For all these measures, Mr Gonzalez, were in the General Budgets of the State; yet you, We can, voted against them. That's how you get nothing but sticks to the wheels. [[Applauds]] In your opinion - let me tell you - don't you think the officials will want to have one more week of paternity? Don't you think they want to have a thousand euros to help with the schooling of their children from 0 to 3 years old? Unfortunately today it is complicated, and as I said at first I would love to show you the advantages of negotiation, but it is that some do not want to realize that this legislature is finished, finished. Unfortunately, some have not understood, among others, Mrs Madrazo and the other members of the Group of the European People's Party, that the problems of this country, such as the situation of public employees, the challenges to democracy and the restoration of the credibility of the institutions for society as a whole, can only be solved through a strong and clean government, that is, a government without bleakness. Mrs Madrazo asked us in a very becquerian way what the general interest is. Let me tell you, Mrs Madrazo - I don't know where you are, but I imagine you will be here - that the general interest is not to have a government stained by corruption, but a strong government, to avoid the thugs and to guarantee the equality and unity of all Spaniards. The general interest is to have a government ultimately endorsed by all citizens. We agree to reverse the negative situations created at the dawn of the crisis, which has damaged the quality of the public services we enjoyed by the citizens of this country, as well as the situations that have not wanted to be amended and that can only be faced with a strong, clean government and with the confidence of the citizens. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez Freire. Mrs López Ares has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my presentation on this non-legislative proposal, I would like to tell the spokesman for Citizens that a strong government is the one that works for the Spaniards, for employment and for economic growth, and that a government would not be strong if the only thing that concerns it was the survey that appeared in a medium of communication on a particular morning. That will never be done by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We will continue to work for the Spaniards, for their interests and for improving the future, which is why we have voted much more than you. Now I begin my presentation in relation to this non-law proposition. The United Parliamentary Group Podemos presents a non-legislative proposal with which they intend to continue talking about the General Budgets of the State for 2018, and they must want to continue talking about this because they may not have gone beyond the fact that last week 176 deputies rejected their proposals at this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. And today we come with this non-law proposal, according to you, to rescue the Public Function. It is a proposition that fits its forms, as it cannot be otherwise. In other words, following a statement of reasons that shows an almost black grey Spain: destruction, reduction, loss, cuts, precariousness, devaluation, disappearance, freezing, its black Spain, ask the government for actions that will allow us to rescue our Spain in the part that affects public employees in this case. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the ransom you bring here. First, you propose to eliminate the replenishment rate of the different public administrations according to their budgetary availability. Those two words seem to have been missed in the wording. For, Mr. spokesman for Podemos, the People's Party government agreed and agreed in 2018 to an increase in replacement rates up to 115 %. It agreed, agreed and brought them in, which is the guarantee with those budgetary resources. These increases were incorporated into the 2018 General State Budgets, Article 19. Do you know what you did? Vote against. Secondly, they request the recovery of lost purchasing power. It has been negotiated, it has been agreed with the trade unions and we are talking about an increase that can reach almost 9% and that has been reflected in the General Budgets of the State. Do you know what you did? Vote against. Thirdly, they seek to recover the integrity of the temporary disability benefit. It is also reflected in the agreement and in the General Budgets of the State, an additional fifty-fifth provision. Do you know what you did? Vote against. They ask to establish the negotiating capacity of the working day for each public administration, reaching thirty-five hours. It is incorporated in the General Budgets of the State, additional provision one hundred and thirty-second. What have you done? Vote against. They want to be included in the next budgets for 2018 or 2019 - we don't know - certain additional rates for stabilization in all sectors. It is reflected in the Budget Bill for 2018, Article 19.A.9. What have you done? Vote against. They also request an extraordinary public offer of employment in the field of the General Administration of the State. It is incorporated for the levels or sectors you request, in Article 19 and in other provisions. What have you done? Vote against. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics the word is important, but what really allows us to solve citizens' problems is the facts, and with the decisions and facts the People's Party Government, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, what shows is their real commitment to public employees. Given the facts, Mr de Podemos, Mr González, in his case there are only three possibilities: that the 2018 budgets have not been read; that, if they have read them, they have not understood them; or that, having read them and understood them, they do not really care about public employees and the only thing that interests them is to continue with their pantomimes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. López Ares. Mr González García, for the sole purpose of accepting or not accepting the amendments, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u52	We are drawing up a compromise amendment which I hope will please the amending groups and serve as an alternative majority.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u53	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON A SPECIFIC PROGRAMME FOR THE IMPROVEMENT AND PROMOTION OF UNIVERSITY INVESTIGATIVE AND DEPARTMENTAL PERSONAL. [[PDI]] [[File number 162/000594]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u54	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on a specific programme for the improvement and promotion of teaching staff and university researchers. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Cruz Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party government only remembers Saint Barbara when it thunders, and by the way it never ends up remembering well. Replace St Barbara with college and you'll understand me right away. The gentlemen of the PP, with their spokesmen, Mr Martínez-Maillo and Mr Rafael Hernando at the head, have only spoken of the university when their political formation has been splashed by scandals - in everyone's mind - and they have also done so in such terms - this is to discredit it - that one would have preferred them to remain silent. The reasons for this persistent oblivion of university by the People's Party may be due to two reasons: either they do not know what to do with it, or they know it perfectly well but they prefer that citizens do not know their plans and keep them hidden. In any case, and in order not to be accused of attributing to them, without evidence, dark intentions, I will confine myself to finding a fact. The university policy of recent years has lacked clear objectives, causing the Spanish university system to recede from the achievements achieved in previous stages. [[Applauds]] Indeed, the IDP has had to assume its work under very adverse conditions. Strong cuts have created a worrying situation and put the quality of the system at risk. We have already warned you, gentlemen of the PP, both we and the universities themselves, but the Ministry of Education did not want to find out, demonstrating once again that the public university is not among its priorities. All this has been compounded by the inability of the People's Party Government to manage key issues in the functioning of the Spanish university system. This Government has ignored the analysis of its own university reports, abandoning it to its fate, without incentivizing quality and improvement, and carrying out reforms that have only worsened the starting situation. One example: the reform of the accreditation system of university teachers, far from making the procedure more objective, has hardened it in such a way that access to university teaching bodies is proving enormously complicated for teachers. In this sense, Citizens, your competitor on the right while your support in the last budgets, deceive less or, let's be fair, deceive nothing. His university model has repeatedly made him manifest and brings to this institution the same neoliberal criteria that he would like to see applied in all spheres of social and economic life. In this regard, we must thank Mr Garicano - whom you invited to the subcommission for the educational pact as your highest authority in this matter - for the spread of his public pronouncements. But obviously - and it gives a little relief to have to remember - one can tell lies and falsehoods with absolute scattering. Really, Mrs. Martín, that you endorse Mr. Garicano's statements in his article 'University and Excellence', last May 14, in the newspaper El Mundo? Because it's not that they were bar comments, it's that they were comments of an ignorant parishioner in the matter. There they could read pearls such as - I open quotes -: we will take you out a square or not present you that it is not for you, they are usual messages in the university departments. I close quotes. Don't you read these words? Doesn't it irritate you for the discredit you shed on our country's faculty? I want to think, Mrs Martín, that you share my irritation, among other things, because I am convinced that you did not take your place as described in that article. This was not the only pearl of Mr. Garicano, there were some to hilt a whole necklace, but I will limit myself to showing this other - I open quotes -: those who know the university from the inside know it; in many departments it has gone from amigoism to corruption, and from corruption and illegality. I close quotes. Mrs. Martin, I don't know if your favorite educational ideologist is breathing for any injury, but you should do your best to contain this hemorrhage of resentment and pending accounts with the university institution that Mr. Garicano seems to have. However, it gives the impression that, rather than that, Citizens have preferred to turn the hemorrhage into the raw material of their electoral program in relation to the Spanish public university. In spite of everything, ladies and gentlemen, I will give in to the temptation of optimism, although neither the People's Group nor the Citizens' Group have recently given many reasons for this. The proposal that we bring here today is not a patch to get out of the way, like those that the government party usually brings, nor does it look at any electoral trend or, worse still, electoralist, as it has been doing for a while to this part Citizens with remarkable incontinence, nor, of course - let us say it all - is a wink at the sector of the university where there is a potential polling station. On the contrary, it is the proposal of a political force, which I have the honour to represent here today, which has always had a definite idea of what should be and the role that the public university should play in this country and which, precisely for this reason, proposes a set of measures that are clear and correct the deterioration to which the negligent indolence of the People's Party in this matter has drawn, as in so many others, said in passing. The Government of Spain cannot continue to ignore its responsibility with the university system and must take measures that contribute to a rapid recovery and improvement in the provision of the public service of higher education, correcting its serious imbalances. It is urgent to resume dialogue with the universities, the autonomous communities and the various social actors involved, so that a specific multiannual plan for the improvement of the system as a whole is adopted in the coming years. The planning we are proposing is designed to allow the recovery and standardization of our teaching and research staff, while promoting the creation of fair and effective mechanisms aimed at recovering, incorporating and consolidating those young researchers who had to move or abandon their scientific careers as a result of the absence of opportunities in Spain. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're still in time. Get out of your ensimistic lethargy, gentlemen of the People's Party, stop looking for a moment at the polls, gentlemen of Citizens, and summarise, one another, to this proposal. They owe it to the Spanish public university. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Cruz Rodríguez. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Martín Llaguno, on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one question you may not know. I'm the head of universities in my party. I have a lot of intellectual respect for Mr Garicano, but I do not understand very well, and less so from the PSOE, which is supposed to be a party that defends equality, that paternalistic and disauthorizing position of the woman who holds universities in Citizens. [[Applauds]] I'm in charge of universities and I'm a university teacher. I've been at the Spanish public university for 23 years. I started as AYUE and I'm a university professor. I have gone through all the selection processes that have happened and because there are at the university, from those contests that were convened in the departments without any need for accreditation to a national qualification, an accreditation as a professor and all the contests of access. Therefore, I think I can speak with knowledge of cause about what I am going to say. I have two news regarding your proposal, one good and one bad. I'll start, like the joke, with the good one. I agree in part with you in the diagnosis they make. I think it is true that the replacement rate has hurt the university, that five thousand teachers have been lost, that there has been an ageing of university professors, that there has been a structural change, that some universities fraudulently use partner contracts and that we have to plan the generational relay. Now I'm gonna tell her the bad news. I have many discrepancies with the Socialist Party, with you, in three fundamental things. Firstly, in the concept of university - not Garicano, I -; secondly, in the causes of the lack of promotion of staff; and, thirdly, in the solutions that you apply. That is why we have tabled an amendment which they seem to accept. With regard to the concept of university, Citizens argue that university is an institution that is a public service to society. Therefore, it is the teachers who have to serve the university and the university who have to serve society and the students, and not the other way around; it is not the university that has to be at the service of the teachers. Because turning college into an entity serving teachers means turning college into a placement agency, and we don't want it to be that. [[Applauds]] I understand that for the PP and for the PSOE it is very difficult to understand this, because for a long time they have made a political use of the university. I will tell you one thing: without going any further, my university, that of Alicante, is a university that joins the Socialist Party, and when the PP was in disagreement, it was mounted next door, which is the UMH, which is the University of the People's Party; in 30 kilometers, so on. For a long time they've been putting in people who, then, when the skinny cows have arrived, there's been a moment where they have to put it. Therefore, they now plan to relocate teaching and research staff. And I'm gonna tell you something else. I agree with you that financial cuts have been a part of the cause of the problems that many teachers have and very good at the Spanish university, but they have not been all. It is true that for a long time no squares have come out, but it is also true that now the replacement rate has been removed and the squares can go out. What's going on? Do not pull out; do not pull out and are temporarily covered with associate squares. Why? Because the candidate I trust for that square that is structurally going out is not prepared and we are keeping it until I have the relevant accreditation to be able to take out the square of title or professor. [[Applauds]] Thus, the People's Party itself established internal promotion, so that possible mobility has been eliminated. In other words, an acting university professor cannot attend a professor's competition at another university because that competition is made for the holder who holds it with an accreditation. We believe that, in fact, we need to make a promotion plan and to preserve teachers and researchers, but we need to do it in another way. That is why we have tabled an amendment, because the order of factors here does alter the product. What needs to be done is to urge the autonomous communities and universities to provide all the structural places they need to have; and these structural places must be based on the teaching and research needs of the departments, not on the number of accredited persons. And when those endowments are there, what needs to be done is to take them out to a public competition that guarantees equal opportunities for all teachers in this country, so that even those partners who are poorly hired can opt for that position that we are keeping for that candidate. [[applause]] In this respect, we have tabled some amendments and said that we do not agree with the causes we see. Of course, we are in favour of making a plan for the promotion and stability of the faculty, but it is very surprising to us that at this point, when the legislature is finished, you are going to make us an adalides of education. Gentlemen of the PSOE, they have had more than nine months to talk about education in a national pact for education and have risen. So, make him look at it, though it's never too late if the bliss is good. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u59	Thank you, President. In recent weeks, much has been said about universities; there has also been talk of missing master's or dubious validations of diplomas. The truth is that it is regrettable that for once again the university is at the centre of public opinion not because of the commitment of thousands of researchers and teachers, but once again because of the corrupt plots of the People's Party. So it is a matter of justice that this afternoon we are talking about the problems of the university and not so much about the academic problems of Cristina Cifuentes or Mr Pablo Casado. And we are going to do so, in fact, as a result of this GNP presented to us by the Socialist Group on the working conditions of teachers and researchers, and to which we are already going to vote in favour; and we are going to do so, first of all, because we understand that the renewal and stabilization of teaching staff cannot wait a minute longer, because it is really embarrassing that the Government can say that Spain is emerging from the crisis, that Spain is growing to 3% and, at the same time, allows 30% of university teachers to carry out their activity as a false partner, with abusive working conditions which also cause serious damage to university quality. Secondly, we are going to vote in favour of this proposal because we agree with the Socialist Group that the time has come to return the young talent, all that research talent that has gone away from the crisis and the austerity policies of 2012 but also the austerity policies of 2010, and this requires a stable framework for the accreditation and recognition of merits competitions. Thirdly, we agree with the Socialist Group that these measures of consolidation of work must be accompanied by a review of the Aneca and its competences because, if not, we are indeed engaged in an external agency, which is supposed to have only accreditation functions, which ends up marking how our university is to be. However, having seen this agreement, I think that we should not lose sight of the general picture because this situation of precariousness and bureaucratic overload that the Spanish university is experiencing is not a coincidence or something unexpected; this situation - and I think that Mr Cruz could even give me reason - began to arise with the so-called Bologna process and the almost industrial conversion of the Spanish university, because it was evident, and so it was denounced by a pre-clarified student movement, that the conception of the university as a service corresponds to the slow but inexorable introduction and implementation of commercial criteria in the public university. And here perhaps the socialist comrades should also review positions and make some self-criticism because, seen in perspective, the reforms introduced by Minister Garmendia - by the way, closer to the orange bench today - have been decisive for the neoliberal assault on the public university. In fact, the introduction of Bologna at zero cost, the introduction of profitability criteria or the adaptation of the titration map to market needs began to erode the public university even before Mr M. Rajoy will sit at the Palace of the Moncloa. Nevertheless, we know that Spanish public universities have been reasonably efficient institutions over these decades. Spanish scientific production is acceptable in terms of comparison with European countries, has generated a general rise in the competences of the Spanish population and has also contributed in an essential way to the critical examination of society. There is no justification, therefore, for the destabilizing campaigns that the university has been suffering and whose sole objective is to convince the population that neoliberal changes, mercantillizing changes are essential. It is therefore necessary to strike a balance between the demand for reforms and the dignification of the institution as such and, in this sense, from the Confederal Group of the United States We have presented to the Socialist Group an amendment seeking this reform of the university, also in a more egalitarian sense and without glass ceilings for teachers and researchers, because the truth is that, although the number of students is practically similar, as we ascend on the scale, the university becomes a clearly masculinized institution. Therefore, we believe that no improvement in the situation of teachers will be fair or viable in the long term if a structural problem with decades of experience is not addressed. In short, and as we said at the beginning, we will support this proposal because we believe that we must put an end to the state of suffocation in the public university and for the thousands of teachers and researchers who, despite everything, defend and sustain it every day, but at the same time, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we tell them that we must take sides and decide whether we want to protect the university in order to remain a space for the knowledge and culture of science and, therefore, be safe from the whims of the market or whether, on the contrary, we render it to the logic of the value of change. We hope to see you on the first side. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Serna. At the time of the joint parliamentary group's position-setting, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is a parliamentary initiative which, apart from affecting some error such as the misuse of the acronym of the National Agency for the Evaluation of Quality and Accreditation, does not take into account that since the date of submission of the parliamentary initiative, on February 6, 2018, there was an interesting appearance of the head of Aneca before the Commission of Education and Sport, at the beginning of this same month of May, in which he responded to the changes in valuation and criteria introduced to evaluate the teaching and research capacity of university professors. It is true, as has been pointed out, that the incorporation of these modifications through the Royal Decree 1312/2007 of 5 October, establishing national accreditation for access to teaching bodies, has created uncertainty because the changes have led to a transformation that goes in the direction of promoting quality in teaching promoting the system of accreditation of centers rather than accrediting degrees, which has created an imbalance that in turn leads to the delay, if not to the paralysis, of evaluations to accredit professors and university professors. It is therefore possible to agree with the substance of this issue and with the need to resolve the problems arising from these changes, and of course the lack of resources and funding that has an impact on the quality of university education, and it is not serious that only three weeks ago detailed explanations were given and today an initiative that has been out of date since its submission. It is sufficient to contrast it by consulting the high percentages of evaluations and accreditations, which have improved in relation to the previous model. Of the four points that accompany this non-legislative proposal, we can agree with the first three, because, aside from the nuances, they are in the line of defending, protecting and revaluing the Spanish university, but the fourth point, where the Government is urged to suspend the application of the new criteria of accreditation of the Aneca and to initiate a process of negotiation and dialogue, we believe that it would be confusing to take effect and inconsistent with the result of a pooling of nothing less than twenty-one committees from different areas of knowledge that held multiple meetings and a subsequent debate in which representatives of the CRUE and the trade unions also participated. However, Madam President, it seems that a compromise text is being negotiated and once its final content is known, I will vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u63	Thank you, Madam President. When I was preparing this speech, I was wondering how we are going to urge the Government to respect university professionals, the Government itself for the falsified master's degree, the careers that take place in a year and the swollen curricula. The truth is, how are we going to get a government to respect university professionals when it doesn't even respect their own curricula and university degrees, and that's above forty-eight hours of a motion of censure and that the party supporting the government says we're facing a finite legislature, but it doesn't add to that motion of censure. It was all, at the very least, rare. What we were going to. Investigative teaching staff need conditions. The replacement rate has wreaked havoc in universities. The research teaching staff need university careers, master's degrees, doctorates or professional experience for the associated staff; ultimately, years of study and dedication in order to be able to teach at the university, and all this we pay with precarious contracts, with precarious employment, with unstable contracts, with salaries of shame and with educational overload. In the end, once again, we are trying to ensure that the party that is in the government right now respects the entire effort of years of study and dedication of the teaching and research staff, which they themselves do not do to get their own titles. So, at least, ridiculous and absurd. And if all this could at least be remedied by the autonomous governments, where we do have an interest in remediing this defachability, we find ourselves tied up with our hands and feet: the replacement rate that prevents us from hiring and the little that is contracted is done with precariousness and underfunding that prevents us from providing these contracts economically, so that we assume autonomy. So, in the end, the payer of the duck is the investigative teaching staff. As always, the person who pays for the duck is job insecurity and the least deserving of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sorlí Fresquet. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u65	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, President. Just to establish a position, ladies and gentlemen. Despite the above-mentioned misuse of acronyms in the text, we share the substance, we share that the situation of teachers and researchers is frankly worrying and regrettable. That is why we believe that this agreement is inevitable, which must protect the teaching staff of the universities, who have made so much effort to reach their posts and who are doing so much work for the universities and students of this country. Therefore, in order to avoid precariousness, to be able to improve funding but also to bring value to the teaching and research staff of our faculties, we will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Party could be said to be right from the perspective of the focus in which it is viewed, but what happens is that, beyond the focus, there is also a reality. Therefore, I would not say that it is a problem of disfocus but that it is unifocal and only sees what is seen from that focus. In this sense, the diagnosis it makes can be a certain diagnosis - which I share that it is - but the solutions it gives to that diagnosis, precisely because it is looked at from a unique perspective, we do not share them in its entirety, nor all the results or all the solutions they give. At the university level, we must address a reality in which competent administrations and the university are involved. University autonomy is an aspect widely embraced by universities to carry out their work and meet the objectives entrusted to them. On the other hand, the autonomous administrations, although they do not have full competence - we should discuss and deal with why they do not have it, because some are qualified to have it - have competence and, in addition, a decision-making role in the development of many of the policies while they are the funders of university activity. Finally, the State has jurisdiction over universities and develops legislation that conditions the development of these universities. The Socialist Party's proposal is State-oriented and we believe that it is not sufficiently respectful of the competences of the autonomous communities or of the universities themselves. We can say that the proposal, therefore, is limited in this sense, which was the focus. The increase in the staffing of a university is governed by objective criteria and is conditional on the policies of the State Administration. In that sense, greater laxity would certainly be recommended - we agree - although it is not desirable to abandon the necessary entanglement with the policies of the autonomous communities. In paragraph 1 (a) of your non-law proposal you are unaware that in the case, for example, of the Basque Country there is specific legislation, Law 3/2004 of 25 February of the Basque University System, which constitutes a rule which reflects the principles of the university system in Basque and which therefore establishes the essential principles for the teaching and research quality of the system, which you are trying to correct. Paragraph 1(b) calls for specific programmes to recognise the merits of young researchers and teachers in the accreditation process, although this process is not only the responsibility of the State, Mr Socialist Party, so the autonomous competence and independence of the official accreditation agencies are obviated. In Euskadi we have one. As far as paragraph 2 is concerned, they are part of the competence of the Basque Country as regards tax competition when it refers to the part of incentives that you propose. With regard to paragraph 3, we agree on the need to establish a permanent dialogue, but the fundamental basis should not be to establish a dialogue per se, but to establish an adequate level of competence with regard to the autonomous communities and to allow policies to be adapted to local realities, also with regard to personnel policy. With regard to paragraph 4, the focus is once again on obviating the Autonomous Communities. You have had a small problem in this and it is that you have done it as if everything were unique, unitary and uniform, and it is not so, and precisely the data I am giving you are true because that is not so, therefore, you are making that mistake that makes this drift into a question that we cannot share. An intermediate measure is that several of Aneca's exclusive competencies were transferred to accredited quality agencies, such as Unibasq in the case of Euskadi. We therefore agree that it is necessary to provide a more autonomous and less state-based vision, more flexible and respectful of local realities, and that it is necessary to respect the competences in education and taxation, among others, of the autonomous communities, that the different stages of the professional teaching career must be articulated among them and be consistent with local policies. A formula for continuous collaboration between administrations and universities is also essential. Decentralisation of Aneca's functions in official quality agencies accredited at European level is essential. Finally, the necessary collaboration is only possible through the effective commitment of all the actors involved: political parties, central and autonomous governments, and universities. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u69	Good afternoon, company and company, president. We need to talk more about the university and more about it with the universities. We are concerned about the precariousness of the university professor, who unfortunately has worsened the crisis but who has come from a long time ago. It pains me as a teacher what university associates, false associates are suffering; many false associates. University, teaching and research are topics that we would define from day to day, those that mark whether a country is on the path of progress or on the path of decadence. Firstly, a warning, I will talk about what I know and therefore talk about Catalan universities, but I am sure that much of what I say is also part of the future of Spanish universities. One fact, in my opinion important, is that we cannot judge our university system simply because we do not have an Oxford or a MIT; we do not have them and it would be surprising to have them - it would be a miracle - because historically our university has never had the resources or the attention to make possible such a situation. It seems to me a fact, and it is worth saying, that the Catalan university system and that of the whole state is a successful university system that forms well the population to which it serves, different from the Harvard of Aravaca or the masters, let us say, virtual, but this is an anecdote, a sad anecdote that can highlight the good doing of many of our universities. There are about 3,000 universities in Europe. If we look at it, we will find the university of the proposer among the top 100, and if we take Catalan university students, 44% study at one of those 100 universities, more or less, much more than any other state - I think it is Belgium or Luxembourg -. This is a fact, but there has been a perverse effect of the economic crisis in Catalonia and throughout Spain, and it is that there has been a deep fall, very strong cuts. The generic grant of the Catalan public universities fell from 922 million in 2009 to 772 in 2016, below we would have Madrid and the Valencia Country, there are worse situations, but we are in a general situation that needs to be overcome. Why have Spanish and Catalan universities done their job, and well done, in the crisis? I remember the extra pay that all the college students lost and the university continues to work well. Secondly, the fall in research revenues, those that had to be transferred from the state, fell a lot, but we were able to find in Europe that money that we lacked. I give you an example, at this level, Catalan universities rose from 50 million Europeans in 2009 to 74 million in 2016. But this did not cover the fall in investment, which we must achieve. And another element, the rise in fees or the fall in quality, a perverse debate that we must now correct. The rates in Catalonia represent more than 1 billion euros in 2016. Therefore, the subject of the faculty, I am with you, is also a topic of the financing of the entire university, that the university is a matter of state. He told them a year and a half ago that he thought that the state pact could be easier for the university, because it is ripe for this change, than what we have done with a not too good result. Therefore, despite our scepticism and the specific letter you propose, I think it would be good for universities to make the right corrections in this great pact, and we must be ambitious. In Republican Left we want to be ambitious because the university can't wait any longer. Negotiation and great change is what we need. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz Serra. Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I am not going to enter that competition to see who disqualifies the university the most; whether the Socialist Party, whether Citizens or if We Can. It seems to me that both in this rostrum and in the explanatory statement of the non-legislative proposition are making accusations to the university, there are generalizing acts that I think should be completely discarded from the collective imagination because anyone who hears them thinks that we are in front of a university where black scholarships are the most common, and that is not the case, they are exceptional cases. That one gentleman gives another a contract or a scholarship so that he doesn't do his job and in return gets a privileged position to opt for a seat in Congress is not the normal thing, that only happens in some parliamentary groups who then want to give some kind of lessons. [[Applauds]] Nor is it normal for those who become adelids of the defense of the public university to get a doctorate in private university, something else perfectly legitimate and that we think very well, although we would like to know the content of these doctoral theses, such as the one we do not know of the socialist leader. [[applause]] In these behaviors that, as I say, are exceptional in our university, we are not going to enter. That's right, we ask you to act with serenity, security and consistency, and that's why I'm having a problem, I have to confess. I do not know right now what position the People's Group should take, which is absolutely contrary to the initial approach of the Socialist Group's non-law proposal, but, as it seems that it is willing to accept the opposite of what it says in its non-law proposal, which is what the Citizens' Amendment says, at best at the end there is something that is perfectly consumable, because the Citizens' Amendment says exactly what the People's Party Government is doing. It may well be that in this conversion of the Socialist Party we find points of agreement. [[Applauds]] The truth is that what they specifically propose here is at least false and dangerous. It is false because they are based on the premise of pre-truth, post-truth or falsehood, I don't know very well how to define it. They make statements that are not based on any objective data, and the data have been given to the full in this House. Less than a month ago they were given by the general secretary of universities and the director of the Aneca. It is not true that the new criteria of the Aneca are harder and are causing harm to Spanish researchers, it is that the statistics, with the specific data of the evaluations that have been carried out, say that it is even slightly improved compared to previous evaluations. Then we are not talking about much more rigorous criteria that make it difficult for researchers to access that accreditation as holders, as professors or as hired doctors, it is not true, and in the face of that non-truth, in the face of that falsehood, there is the data. But there's more data. You ask that researchers come back, that talent is captured, and that has a name, they are called Beatriz Galindo scholarships: 21 600 000 euros for the next four years. The first call has already come out and the deadline for submission has expired. That is in the State General Budgets that you have not voted on, which you do is to make it easier for that talent to return to universities and to be reinvestigated. They say we're gonna get the dialogue back. But if it has never been lost, it has always been spoken. They are saying that the Aneca is establishing criteria that seem fatal to them and that have been established after nineteen meetings of the committees with trade unions and the CRUE. But what more dialogue do you want? Do you want us to set up an office there so that the dialogue is permanent? For finishing the game, the Mineco and the CRUE have agreed that every two months they will meet to assess how the research in Spain is going. Frankly, I don't know what dialogue they're talking about. In any case, I see that they have a real obsession that they repeat like a mantra and are answered, but they do not listen. They don't listen, they don't understand or they don't want to understand. The truth is that we ask for coherence; coherence to defend the university always, not when we are interested. To defend the university is to work for it to have resources here and in Andalusia - of precarious teachers let's not talk because they are one day yes and another also at the gates of San Telmo -; here and in Castilla-La Mancha, because, as the representative of the PNV recalled, it is about financing the university properly. I'm gonna end up with a personal reflection. I am a professor at the University of Castile-La Mancha. Do you know what was the biggest concern that we university students had in Castile-La Mancha in 2011? To know if we would charge our payrolls, because the socialist government did not pay the university what it owed. [[Applauds]] Do you know the concern that the university students of CastillaLa Mancha have right now? To know if they will charge their payrolls, because the Government of GarcíaPage does not fund the University of CastillaLa Mancha, not even in what is necessary to cover chapter 1. Those are also the real concerns of many college students. I would like you to be consistent and claim it in the respective regional parliaments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valmaña Ochaíta. Mr Cruz Rodríguez, for the sole purpose of accepting or rejecting amendments, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u73	We're negotiating a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u75	We then proceed to discuss the motion of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the position of the Government with regard to the pending transfers in the field of social security concerning the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State and the management of the economic system of social security. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u76	Pick it up on. Thank you, Madam President. If I am honest with you, I do not think that we should be debating today asking the government to immediately transfer to the Basque and Nafarroa Autonomous Community all the remaining competences in social security. It should not be necessary to do so to the extent that the Statute of Gernika and the Improvement Act are binding laws that the different Spanish governments have been failing to comply with; it is only necessary to review the development of both laws. In the case of the statute, its development was faster in the first phase and with Suárez and Gonzalez in the Government, eighty-six transfer decrees were signed, after which it gradually slowed down. At present, thirty-seven remain untransferred between competences and subjects and services that could be managed by the Basque Government if there was a willingness on the part of the central Government to conclude the agreements that would permit it. The fairly automatic development of the start-up followed a phase in the use of outstanding transfers as a currency to overcome investments or budgetary procedures. Thus, nine materialized with Mr Aznar and fifteen with Rodríguez Zapatero. Since the latter, only a couple of roads or railways, without forgetting that in those managed by the Basque Government the State has tried to prevent the development of laws - many of them in the social sphere - by systematically going to the Constitutional Court. In the case of Navarra, there are seventeen contested laws; in the case of Improvement, the process of transfer began in 1985, the last transfer having taken place at the beginning of 2001. In total, sixty transfers, remaining pending around twenty-five. In other words, the transfers took place mainly between 1985 and 1990, followed by ten years of paralysis with some small exception until 2001 and of absolute paralysis from that year until today. In both cases, this reality has been denounced by the majority and repeatedly by the parliaments of Gasteiz and Iruña, who are asking the Government to end the unilateral blockade of the transfer process. (a) the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State, with the exception of the rules governing the economic system of the State; and (b) the management of the economic system of social security. Let no one get confused. When we ask for this transfer - the parliamentary majority in our territory does - we are not asking for the single box to be broken, even if my formation aspires to it, we are asking for compliance with the law; a compliance that should not be subject to other agreements or variables of any kind, as recently approved by the Basque Parliament. And neither tell me in paternalistic attitude, as the minister did in response to our inquiry, that the numbers are negative today in both communities, because they are also so in the whole state and we know for sure that we have higher objective conditions, and if we had the possibility of forming a system of our own we would have more future than bound to the Spanish system. In any case, having one's own system - our ultimate objective - is not the subject of today's debate, this is a previous, previous, step of law enforcement and point. Some of you have the custom of taking him out in an attempt to convince us that the transfer is not appropriate for us, but we are convinced otherwise. We know that the mere transfer of powers that I have mentioned to you does not allow us to decide on the conditions for access to pensions, nor does it give us the decision on the amounts or the annual updating of them, but if we are certain of anything, that management in our hands would improve in agility, control and effectiveness, and if they do not prove it. All of you, with the exception of orange neo-ranquism, have representation in Euskal Herria; go out on the street and ask the population what they prefer, who manages their pensions the PP government by the hand of Citizens or do so by the Basque Government and the Navarro. The transfer, in addition to better management - as I told the minister - we are convinced that it will be something else; it will be implementing the mechanisms for the future management of the system itself. In any case, apart from the aspirations that each one of us can have about pensions, the fact is that those who speak to us every day with the law in their hands can only vote in favour of this motion because the transfers of the outstanding competences in the field of social security do not imply any concession, is merely to comply with the majority feeling of the Basque Autonomous Community and the fulfilment of the capacity recognized by the statute and the improvement, I insist, basic laws of compulsory compliance. This is the current legal and political framework, exhausted in our view but in force today, so we should all ensure that it is implemented. Another issue is the view that each of us can have on pensions. We have been making this very clear, we aspire to a system of our own that allows us to dignify pensions, since raising them by the CPI or above it - more for the casualties - in practice does not correct the main problem, since more than half of the pensions do not allow their recipients to achieve the basic income necessary to lead a dignified life. We have repeated this many times, a strong public system is needed for this, not a bet on private plans. They cannot be conditioned by the economic situation and must guarantee at least 60% of the weighted average wage of workers in the area, i.e. EUR 1080 in the case of Basque citizenship. Failure to do so is to condemn to poverty pensioners, to misery women, the main recipients of widowhood pensions, and it is women who are the majority of those who receive pensions below the poverty line. At present, in Nafarroa, these pensions are supplemented; 22 000 people receiving the lowest pensions benefit from them. In the Basque Autonomous Community there are 16 000 people who are supplemented via GIR, although many are left out of the system. Therefore, both the increase agreed with Citizens and the increase agreed with the PNV will not mean any increase for those who charge 639 euros, i.e. the most supplementary pension, because it is absorbable. Nor will widows who charge less than the 639 euros, while they will experience the highest growth, the more than 2500 euros, which will increase an average of 40 euros per month. In the face of this reality, thousands of people went to the streets again this weekend to ask for the dignity of pensions, to denounce the budgetary agreement in this area, to stand against a right to become a bargaining commodity and to denounce that they only put on patches because they do not want to address the substantive debate, the way to guarantee decent pensions once the economic needs of doing so are established. We will continue to bet that the in-depth debate that the present and future of pensions requires will take place. In the meantime, in an intermediate step, we demand the pending competition in social security for the Basque and Nafarroa Autonomous Community. [[The lady]] I'm done with a petition. I will end with insistence on an idea - I say it once again - that ultimately it is nothing more than respect for a basic law of compulsory compliance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u77	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u78	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I was now telling Marian Beitialarrangothia, when she was going up and I was going down, that I'm going to rehearse her, that is to say, practically repeat her intervention, which I am very happy about what I'm going to say at the end. The claim that the provisions of Article 18 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country and the fifth transitional provision, which provide for the possibility of the transfer of the management of the economic system of social security to the Basque Country, are not merely a claim, is a unanimous claim of the Basque Parliament, not today but for many years, contained in a list of outstanding transfers that have not materialized for many years. In 1991 there was already the first list of non-compliances by the State with regard to the powers provided for in the statute of autonomy. Therefore, we not only support this claim, but the Basque Nationalist Party pushed it from the very beginning. We are glad that those who at another time did not accept it, discussed it and understood that it did not serve, today join this claim and are part of the same bloc and initiative. It is always positive to fix things according to their possibilities, that the agreement is the natural way that leads to the possibility of understanding between different administrations and to be able to satisfy in that way, although not entirely, the political pretensions that each one of us can have. As I said, there has been a very repeated breach by successive governments of the State of different colors. It was requested by the Basque Parliament in 1991 and remains unfulfilled forty years later. The arguments put forward have been several, but there is one fundamental one, and it is the possibility that such a transfer could break or break a legal concept that does not actually exist, that has been incorporated only at some point by some judgment in a reference way, but that in the order has not been positivized, which is the concept of a single box. The concept of a one-size-fits-all box is nothing more than an accounting principle that is elevated to the basic principle category of social security systems, when it is not so, when it has not been legally addressed at any time. Nor does it have any justification, because the competence provided for in the statute of autonomy is the management of the economic system of social security. We would already like it to be Social Security in its entirety, we would already like to be able to have our own model of Social Security in Euskadi, but that is not the claim that today is drawn in the order, neither in the legal nor in the political, but that of the management of the economic regime of Social Security, which has been successively denied by all the governments that have so far presided over Spain. That is why we understand that it is not only timely today to reclaim this, but also that we are doing it in a double framework; here in Congress, asking the rest of the political parties to support us in this initiative, but also from another point of view, asking those who are also part of the Basque Parliament to appear in the context of the self-government presentation that is now being carried out so that not only is this possibility of immediate transfer drawn but that another possibility is drawn, that is to encourage, expand and consensus other competences in relation to the social security system that the Basques also want to have and, moreover, with our own political drawing. Therefore, Mrs Beitialarrangotia, we will support this motion, because it is not only of justice but also of binding compliance, such as the regulations you say have been breached for so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u79	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u80	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. We are going to vote that yes, of course, how no, we are going to support this proposal by Bildu because, apart from being legal and binding, it is very feasible to transfer competences in the field of social security, whether executive, normative or both, do not pose problems. Even - by replying to comrade Iñigo - it can continue to be the single box, in the sense that at the end of the day the money is from the contributors, and with a good negotiation that also ensures the shielding of its management passed, I see no problem at this point. In short, as I said, we are going to support this motion, first of all, because we believe in decentralization, which is feasible and possible. Secondly, decentralization can help the sustainability of and even improve pensions, as pensions could be linked to the actual CPI of each community, for example, to set an example to be studied. And, thirdly, and more conceptually, we obviously believe in the autonomy and possibilities that each nation of the State, whether in this State or while in this State, can come to create its own model of social security. That's what we think. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u81	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Alba Goveli has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u82	Thank you, President. The debate on the public pension model has been on the table for years, although it has been the massive mobilizations of pensioners that have brought it to the front page of the media and to make it a matter of greatest concern to citizens lately. In relation to this, I must confess that, as Basque, I am particularly proud of the pensioners and pensioners of Euskadi, who week after week have filled and continue to fill streets and squares demanding what is of justice. As much as it bothers some, they are the spearhead of the state pensioner movement; Bilbao is the epicenter of mobilizations. There is a widespread perception of the injustice being committed by a generation that has worked very hard since the 1970s and 1980s to make this country one of the world's first economies and today sees how its purchasing capacity barely gives it to meet its most basic needs. By giving some quick figures, half of Euskadi's recipients do not exceed EUR 1000; four out of ten do not reach the SMI; slightly more than 15,000 Basque pensioners are pushed to claim income guarantee income; by the way, a Basque GIR in low hours, which has suffered numerous cuts and in recent years has decreased its amount and put hundreds of obstacles to its access. Basque widows who receive one of these benefits and who do not exceed the SMI are 41,46 %. And none of this, ladies and gentlemen, is resolved with the 12 euros that represents the agreement of the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party. In Sabin Etxea he tried to silence them by calling them to a meeting and the pensioners have already told them not to swallow. How did we get here? Well, I'll sum it up real quick. One, the unjust management that has been made since 2008 of the economic crisis and that has its greatest exponent in the reforms of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Two, the demographic transition that requires policies to support the family and reconciliation, as well as to welcome migrants. Three, the insufficient commitment to equality between women and men, which has not reversed the unjust and discriminatory sexual division of labour, which translates into a wage gap during working life and also during retirement. Four, an economic policy away from people, focused on macroeconomic data, that does not distribute and that does not distribute wealth. And, five, harmful management of social security by the People's Party, which has emptied the pension fund and which leaves a structural deficit of EUR 18 billion per year. We can say that the battle for pensions is fought in the field of politics. Our societies generate more wealth than ever before and the criteria for redistribution of wealth are ideological. It all comes down to a very easy question: how much do we want to spend on pensions? That is the big question we have to answer as a society, and from there look for a way to finance the answer. To date, just the opposite has been done, adjusting pensions to the income of the system, rather than looking for ways to increase resources to secure pensions. But let's get to the issue we're dealing with today. Thirty-eight years after the adoption of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, its implementation has not yet been completed. One of the main competences pending transfer to the Basque institutions is precisely that of social security. In the context of the transfer, it is regulated by Article 18.2 and the fifth transitional provision, which state that in the field of social security the Basque Country shall be responsible for the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State, except for the rules which form the economic system of the State and the management of the economic system of social security. We're just talking plain and simple about complying with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go ahead with a few numerals. In Euskadi, the approach to the social welfare system cannot be limited only to those who manage it, an issue which is merely a matter of competence, but for what purpose and in what way its viability is ensured. In our case, the objective of the transfer in this competition is to strengthen our real capacity for self-government, but with the priority objective of improving the quality of life of citizens. In this sense, we defend as one of the pillars of our present and incomplete welfare state a system of public social foresight, universal, that ensures a life worthy of citizens, in particular our elderly people, and based on solidarity, interterritorial solidarity, intergenerational solidarity among those who have more and less and between men and women, and here everyone has to be portrayed with their model of pensions. It must also be made clear that claiming compliance with the Gernika Statute does not mean breaking the well-known single social security fund, as they have already said. Our option is to advance compliance with the statute, but through governance and co-management formulas, which ensure not only transfer but also a co-management model that also incorporates the involvement of social actors. We will therefore vote in favour, although I must confess that the initiative has surprised us by contradiction after listening for many years and very recently to EH Bildu's statements on this issue, but of course we will support it because our bet on self-government is clear, but not to replicate outdated and neoliberal models to the detriment of the public, not to accumulate power as if chrome were being dealt with, much less to create inefficient bodies, as it has already passed with the Lanbide Public Employment Service. I'm done, President. Skills, yes, but with another management model. Here and in Euskadi we say it loud and clear: transfers, yes, but to improve people's lives; yes, but to put people in the center; yes, but to improve and advance in the protection of pensioners. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u83	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Faba de la Encarnación has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, although we are exhausted from the legislature, we continue to work for all the Spaniards and, on this subject, for all our pensioners. I am telling you that Citizens are going to vote against this initiative because it is not good for anyone. Mr Bildu, you want to have the power to legislate on pensions, but at the end of the day you pay the common fund. That's called insolidarity. If the single box is common, the area of decision must also be common and, moreover, as far away from political use as possible. That is the value of the Toledo Pact that we defend from Citizens. Why do you ask for social security skills knowing that your autonomous community has a pension deficit of 18% annually? In 2017, income from contributions, less expenditure on contributory pensions, left a hole of 3373 million, a gap that started in 2006 and has not stopped growing. The contribution income in the Basque Country amounts to €5129.3 million, while the total payable for invalidity pensions, retirement, widowhood, orphanage, etc. amounts to about €8506 million. Do you ask for skills to close this hole? No, no, Do you ask for skills to make cuts? Today, the Basque Country has the highest pensions in Spain. The average pension in the Basque Country is 1159.31 euros, while the Spanish average does not reach 1000 euros. In the Basque Country, the number of pensioners also grows faster than in Spain as a whole, at 1.4% compared to 1.2%. Those higher pensions are due to higher wages and contributions and long contributory careers, but it is the common public pension system that guarantees them, and you propose to put them at risk. Their motion does not have in mind the interest of the pensioners of Spain, live where they live. You want to break the one-size-fits-all Social Security box. It's the worst mistake we can make. It would lead to the dynamism of the public pension system that we so much value. Don't count on Citizens for that, at all. Our party will defend the equality of all Spaniards live where they live. Perhaps you are only thinking of improving the conditions of pensioners in the Basque Country, but your initiative would probably end up achieving the opposite goal, impoverishing pensioners that you are precisely trying to favour. In a recent survey among managers of Basque companies, questioned as to whether they consider it necessary and possible to set up their own Basque social security, 56 % was against - yes, ladies and gentlemen, against -. Of these, the majority also considered that it was not necessary or even feasible. The rejection is based on the view that the system is absolutely deficient and that it will continue to be so in the coming years. Those who, on the other hand, believe that it would be positive do so because they believe that the Basque administration could bear it economically. A third option that opens the way in employers' responses points to the possibility of developing a similar model, that of the quota, based on a bilateral guarantee between the two governments. Furthermore, even if you want to present this initiative as a defence of pensioners, it is a coincidence that we discussed your initiative at the following plenary session that you voted no to general state budgets containing the largest pension increase of many years. You, to destroy, prefer to vote against the State General Budgets, that pensions only rise by 0.25 % and lose purchasing power than to vote for all pensions to rise by 1.6 % and even more smaller pensions. Is that your concern for our elders? Is that your concern? Ladies and gentlemen, works are love and you have done nothing to improve the situation of pensioners, absolutely nothing. To raise pensions and strengthen our public pension system the Spaniards can meet with our parliamentary group, with Citizens, but to break the one-size-fits-all box and put Social Security at risk, don't even dream about it. Thank you and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u85	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, the Socialist Group agrees with you in part with the analysis you make in your initiative on the situation facing social security, as well as the aspirations to improve the system in order to improve the lives of pensioners. For the model of society that defends my group, it is essential to maintain the basic pillars of the welfare state, as you know: public health, public education, social services including dependency and, of course, the public pension system that guarantees a decent life for all people who have made Spain an advanced country today. We owe you, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, we understand that the human being must be protected in the stages of his life in which he is most vulnerable: childhood, old age or disease. We also agree in the diagnosis that the social cuts that have occurred since the rule of the right respond more to an ideological question than to the economic crisis itself. And, of course, we agree that the policies of the People's Party are posing a serious threat to the public pension system and to pensioners, for a number of reasons we already know. Firstly, because they unilaterally broke the consensus of the Toledo Pact in the 10th Legislature; secondly, with their employment policies they have jeopardized the financial balance of the system; thirdly, with the new pension revaluation mechanisms they condemn the gradual impoverishment of pensioners and, fourthly, with the sustainability factor in the future, they will enter the system with lower pensions. Moreover, the policies implemented in recent years have led to a large deficit in the system without the Government having taken a single measure to resolve this issue in six and a half years. On the other hand, we agree with you that pensions should be re-indexed to the CPI; that pensions should exceed the poverty line for all pensioners, with particular attention to widows and those in a vulnerable situation, and that social security income should be complemented by taxes through State General Budgets. But so far all our coincidences, Your Honor. In the Basque Country, the average retirement pension is 23.5 % higher than in the rest of Spain and this advantage reaches 26,3 % if the recipient is of the same Bilbao, that is, 53 % higher than the extremists or the Galicians. Your Honor, it could be your demand for an exercise of solidarity with the rest of Spain and to pursue that the level of pensions of the Basque Country extends to all other territories, but it is surprising to discover that solidarity is manifested rather on the contrary: when the ship seems to be in danger instead of hoisting the shoulder they try to abandon it. [[applause]] He has said so clearly before and he also says so on his own initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, from my group we do not agree with this position. We want to financially heal and make the social security system sustainable for all the territories of Spain, because we believe in equality and intergenerational and interterritorial solidarity. We believe that all retirees - Basques, Catalans, Galicians, extremists or Andalusians - are entitled to a dignified old age. Article 149.1.17(a) of the Constitution provides that the intention to preserve the unity of the social security system with a single and unitary regime for all citizens, which guarantees the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of the rights and duties in this field, can be extracted. Ladies and gentlemen, solidarity in social security travels in all directions and since it is a compromise between generations, between income levels and between territories, its treasury must be unified in one box and subject to a unified criterion of contributions and benefits for the whole territory that guarantees the equality of all people live wherever they want. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u87	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cotelo Balmaseda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, with your motion we thank you once again for the opportunity you have given us to do pedagogy of our social security system, since it seems to you that you are so concerned - and also the minister told you this in your day - and so that you can affirm with certainty how from the government of the People's Party with Social Security your coverage has spread, how important progress has been made in the levels of protection, how social spending has increased, how the protective action of the system has intensified; and, in case you had any doubt, gentlemen of Bildu, the single box is the basis, it is the heart of the system. But I also want to remind you not only with words but with contrasting facts and with official data. And for example, just some of the realities among the more than forty benefits our social security system has. I'll give you a few. Today there are more than 721,528 pensions than in 2011. The average amount of retirement is 17.24 % plus -159.21 euros -, at present it is 1082.94 euros. The monthly payroll for contributory pensions is over €8963 million. The objective of separating sources of funding has been met, which the Socialist Party left us in inheritance without doing. Today, more than 388,000 women benefit from the increase in their maternity pension. The duration of paternity leave has been increased from two to four weeks. Part-time workers have greater protection, allowing a fairer calculation of their benefits. For persons with disabilities, they are allowed to contribute to the system and obtain a benefit even if they have not accredited any work activities. And for the self-employed, you know there's an urgent reform law with a battery of measures that I'm not going to extend. For orphanhood, the principle of retroactivity is applied, in such a way that the pension is increased in the event of gender-based violence or any other criminal offence, and the extension of the age limit, also in the case of orphanhood, up to twenty-five years. We must not forget the general state budgets which we approved last week and which increase pensions from 1.6% to 7.6%, to which you opposed and I understand that your Basque pensioners have made it clear; but good. Therefore, whether you like it or not, no one will be able to deny that the People's Party Government has made a significant improvement in all pensions, especially in the pensions of the most vulnerable groups and in addition with the aim of reducing the public deficit. And if as a result of the unity and solidarity of all Spaniards this has been possible in Spain, especially important has been in the Basque Country, and you know it. Still, I'm going to give you some data. They know that the pensioners of the Basque Country are the ones who receive the highest pensions in all the national territory, which we are happy about. Today, 8.8% more pensions are paid to more pensioners, with an average of 16% higher than during the crisis. The average retirement pension is 1335 euros, 23.62% higher than the national average, reaching almost 50% more in the case of some communities such as Extremadura. Moreover, the average pension - as has been said - is EUR 1161, 24% more than the national average. And all this has been paid on time every month through the solidarity system. More than €12.3 billion - which is said to be soon - has been sent since 2012 to pay pensions for pensioners in the Basque Country on time, demonstrating that our system protects older people from living where they live. As for the difference in the collection of quotas, which you gave figures that are not true, the difference with economic benefits in the Basque Country is over 30%, while the average for the rest of the communities is 18%. Therefore, the solidarity effort that the system is making with the Basque Country is greater, significantly greater, and that is nothing more than justice, equity and solidarity; in other words, the one-size-fits-all box, which they do not like to call it that. In particular, by 2018 there will be a pension deficit of 3274 million that will be paid with the solidarity of the system. So the guarantee that pensioners in the Basque Country will receive their pensions is not going to be anything other than the one-size-fits-all Social Security box. Gentlemen of Bildu, they don't cheat on us, they don't cheat on anyone. Its approaches are the furthest removed from any balanced assurance and are manifestly contrary to the principle of interterritorial solidarity. On the other hand, the single social security system constitutes the income distribution system of a State. As far as the transfer of economic management is concerned, we have been told, article 149.1.17.a of the Spanish Constitution, State competence. I will repeat this: the single box is the basis, it is the heart of the system, told by the government of Mariano Rajoy and told by this party, it will not break. And it is not going to break because it contravenes, as the Constitutional Court indicates, the basic principles inherent in any social security system that guarantees the equality of all Spaniards, unity, equity and solidarity. And you know the worst part about all this? That you are using the pensioners of the Basque Country when they really don't care. He is using them to make a partisan interpretation and away from the reality of the statute. I'm done, President. And there is more, in the unity of the Constitutional Court to which the system is referred, against the territorial policies that may affect the single box and that are contrary to the normative hierarchy by putting the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country before its constitutional precepts, rather, the interpretation that you make of the Statute of the Basque Country. So, Mr de Bildu, if you are so concerned about the social security system - I finish - three requests: that they be consistent with the motion you have put forward, that they be responsible and that they do not support a motion of censure which it does is to create uncertainty, not to promote either employment or economic growth, which is the pillar of the social security system. We encourage you to participate in the Toledo Pact, where we are all members and fellow Members of Parliament working to reach agreements that will improve the single box, a single box that is the guarantee that more pensions will be paid to more pensioners and higher than ever in any part of our territory and not just in the present, but in the future. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u89	Thank you very much. - THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO PALIAR [[EAJ-PNV]] THE CONCERNING SITUATION OF THE INCREASE IN THE MENA NUMBER [[UNaccompanied FOREIGN LEADERS]] [[File number 173/000091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u90	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, on the measures to be taken to alleviate the worrying situation resulting from the increase in the number of unaccompanied foreign minors, MENA. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u91	Good afternoon again, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen. MENA, unaccompanied foreign minors. Let us talk about an issue that is not just a matter of rights, but also. We are not just talking about the rights of unaccompanied foreign minors, but we need to take them into account. As minors, they have the right to be recognized and prevented from being deprived of their protection, they have the right to adequate protection and guardianship, they have the right to declare such protection by the institutions and to be effective and, above all, they have the right to act in accordance with two principles: the best interests of the child in any public action that occurs - and, of course, private - but also in relation to his right to family reunification. Because we are talking about a collective that sometimes arrives in a voluntary way and sometimes based on situations of necessity that, if necessary, will always be able to have the positive option of family reunification as a natural option of their individual development. This is a motion that does not refer only, but also to the responsibilities of the public administrations, because in this function we are all involved, all the administrations: the State, the Government of the State, belong to many ministries many of the functions recognized in the Law on the Protection of the Child and in other actions, it belongs to the autonomous communities the specific ones in the matter of minors and also to the local administrations that are always responsible for dealing with many of the deficiencies of rights on an individual basis. It is therefore up to all as a whole to meet the commitment of article 39 of the Constitution, which establishes the obligation of the public authorities to ensure the social, economic and legal protection of the family and, in particular, of minors. And in this way, apart from the international treaties, the basic rights letters of the child, the Constitution or the laws that regulate it, the Government and all public administrations have signed a protocol that was adopted on 1 October 2014 and is known as the framework protocol on proceedings in relation to unaccompanied foreign minors. Well, in the view of the main actors involved in the field of child protection, such protection is not being effective at the moment, it is not responding to the real needs of minors, and it is also taking place in a specific context in which the coming of such minors is a problem which, being important, is on the way to becoming drastic, to put it mildly. As of December 2017 there was a significant number of MENA in the state, with unequal presence in different autonomous communities. According to the Ministry of the Interior, there were 6,500 and, according to data from the Autonomous Communities, there were 9710. Of these, more than 5000 were already protected by the administrations of the autonomous communities. It is true that the presence is unequal in many places, but it is also true that there are especially affected communities, such as Andalusia and Melilla, for their proximity to the Strait, or Catalonia and Madrid and the entire Mediterranean corridor. And what is more surprising, also the Basque Country. I'll give you the example of Vizcaya. If the forecasts were worrying so far, now - I said - they are starting to be disturbing. If last year there were 787 revenues and 445 welcomed, we are told that this last weekend there has been an arrival of something like fourteen or fifteen new, only the weekend, taking into account - it is a fact that must be taken into consideration - besides that we are in Ramadan, which is precisely when there is an avalanche of passage through the Strait. We have been told that even this weekend, more than four hundred people have arrived, indicating that the problem is not that it is urgent, it is the following, as is usually said. In this context, therefore, we are presenting this motion, which, as you know if you have been able to read it, seeks to address four questions on which to reflect and to which to respond. One, we're talking about minors, but not all minors come from the same situation. An internal report of the Ministry of Health itself referred to a categorization into four different groups. Well, each of them needs differentiated attention, a particular way of protection and individualized assistance, and that is a situation that the legal system does not recognize today and on which we need to reflect. We have to accommodate the real situations of the minors who come to us and also of their own, of course. [[The lady]] Second thought. I have cited the framework protocol as a central element, a vehicle for such coordination. Well, this framework protocol is described as a pattern of good practice which, regardless of its binding value for the State institutions that subscribe to it, should be supplemented by the drafting of the corresponding territorial protocols. This has meant in practice that it has not always worked. It has worked on many occasions - we are not going to be unfair - and on others not, among other things because of its lack of normative effectiveness. We must therefore reflect and demand that the regulatory and internal effectiveness of the procedure itself be strengthened. Third reflection. The coordination that we call on the Government of the State in Congress is also required of the rest of the public administrations, but to the Government in this case, because we are in Congress, it is necessary to ask that the different ministries, as listed the other day in the inquiry, taking into account their own responsibilities, do an effective exercise of their powers in order to avoid all situations of unprotectedness that are occurring as a result of their lack of coordination in some cases and their lack of effectiveness in others. Finally, the fourth reflection refers to the coordination between the different administrative responsibilities. We are faced with a supraterritorial phenomenon, in which from the location of the child to his or her provision of care services there is a plurality of actors that needs to be coordinated. It is true that in this situation there are autonomous communities, cities and outlaws who suffer in particular from this avalanche. Well, let's talk about how to coordinate and how to relocate many of these minors in this area of redistribution of responsibilities, because all this is going to go to the attention of the rights of the minors, those to whom I have referred to the principle, which needs to be addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, our motion refers to four proposals resulting from these four reflections. We have moved it and we have received a number of amendments, which we are grateful for and which we are going to try to accept, as the amending groups already know. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is a positive motion in the area of understanding that it is necessary to evolve towards an improvement in the care of unaccompanied minors and it is also a proposal in the area of proposing, because we make specific proposals that we believe can be accepted in order to somehow induce government action in this area. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran Benito. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Bataller i Ruiz spoke first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Basque Nationalist Party for bringing to the plenary of Congress an issue which is of great importance to Compromís and which we have had the opportunity on several occasions to discuss in the Commission, such as the worrying situation of unaccompanied minors in the territory of the State, whose figures have not stopped increasing in recent times. Furthermore, we are pleased to note that this issue has attracted the interest of other groups, and some of them have tabled amendments very much along the lines of which Compromís has tabled. We therefore hope to reach an agreement or a compromise among all. We know that this agonizing Government has given very little consideration to the issue before us at this time. Here I would like to recall that last January the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations was concerned about the rejections at the border of minors in need of international protection in Ceuta and Melilla, that is, that Spain must now put an end to the hot returns. Moreover, among other recommendations, the United Nations report stated - I quote literally - that adequate facilities should be established for children, especially in Ceuta and Melilla, and also for minors arriving by sea on the Andalusian coasts. Nor is the recent report by the Ombudsman of Andalusia, which points to the shortcomings of the framework protocol for the intervention of unaccompanied minors, and warns of the collapse of the Andalusian system of assistance to these minors. It is for this reason that Compromís has tabled among its amendments the request that a plan be put in place to relocate children to other autonomous communities to balance and distribute burdens and resources. Spain has always been a country of emigrants, before and now, and Western Europe has welcomed many people from our country who were leaving because of the precariousness in which they lived. It is fair that at this time we are the ones who are acting, but I am sorry to say that Spain is not doing the right thing. He could be leading an effective, constructive and life-saving European asylum and emigration policy, but he is not. We need unity in the Mediterranean, unity between the two shores of the Mediterranean, so that this sea ceases to be the largest cemetery in Europe and becomes an area of social integration, equality and prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. Mrs Oramas GonzálezMoro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Years 2006 and 2007, Canary Islands: 80 000 people arrived, 10,000 minors, who had to receive Canary Islands. Now I heard Mr Barandiaran say that there are 9,000 minors in Spain, so imagine what they assumed for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands 10,000 boys. I was mayor of the city of La Laguna and there was a center next to the airport of Los Rodeos where it was planned to accommodate 400 people and that summer we got to have 8,000. Europe looked elsewhere because the problem was not its own and, in Spain, except the Basque Country and Andalusia, which had minors, were the only communities that with the laws against, because it was not foreseen a problem like this that I am talking about, and with absolute solidarity but with many drawbacks helped the Canary Islands. I agree with Mr Barandiaran that this is a problem that must be tackled, that we must have the protocols. The children arrive in Ceuta and Melilla, in the Canary Islands or in Andalusia fleeing from other things. When we had the problem, we demanded Europe and looked elsewhere, and now we see the issue of Italy and the problems that other countries have. In this country too, we have to seek solutions that guarantee assistance to children, that the State provides resources to affected communities because it is not a subject of these communities and is very expensive to finance; in the case of the Canary Islands at that time it had to be enabled. Above all, we need rules, that when a boy is protected by a community but is in an NGO in another community and has to operate, we don't have a problem, as happened at the time. We need to be able to differentiate between a four-year-old and a seventeen-year-old so they don't have to be together. Also the subject of labour integration, training and, above all, prevention in the countries of origin. At that time I was in juvenile and child centers, and I remember what the boys were telling me: if I get to know what this was, I don't come. The Senegalese mothers we work with, the mothers of the children who stayed at sea went through the villages explaining to the rest of the children and mothers that their children did not make that way. That would require working in those countries of origin, working in development cooperation. I certainly agree with the motion and the proposal made by the PNV spokesman. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u97	Thank you, Madam President. The studies that have been carried out on the protocols of action in relation to the MENA are true that they point to a necessary reflection on the proper way to act in the face of such a complex problem to equip itself with an appropriate tool, and we understand that all this should be done before any normative development of the current protocol, which is something that is called for in this motion together with the reflection. Because these young people, most of them from African territories who leave their homes to achieve a better life in Europe, mostly arrive in the south, arrive in the Canary Islands and, either they are located by the authorities or they go inside the peninsula and try to find accommodation elsewhere. There begins a procedure that is true that it is very different according to the place in which they are located, the territory in which they are to seek life; the time limits for establishing age, the reception centres, the information provided to them about their situation and their rights, and even the length of time taken to process them are different. Similarly, the programmes to support the transition of this group are also different, since there are some communities that make specific programmes, but not in all cases is equal the participation of the child in the decision-making of his or her future or in the assistance intended to help them, as well as in the psychological consequences of that previous trip and even of the one carried out to reach Europe, all the evil that this has caused them. These issues are important if we start from prioritizing the status of minors ahead of or over immigrants, and the aim should be to provide them with the necessary support to achieve those objectives. To this day we still understand that there is a greater emphasis in the first phase, in the evaluation phase, and it is insufficient in the stage of coverage of needs and transition to adult life, in which many cannot even gain access to the world of work, there are very few aid or support programmes and there are also very few places. That is why coordination and reflection are essential, and we must look for appropriate tools, and we believe that this must be done before the development of this protocol, the proposed normative development, is carried out. That is why we will read the transactional; with the initial text our idea was to abstain, but now we will see what the transactional says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u99	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation of unaccompanied minors in Spain today has overflowed with the provisions of Organic Law 4/2000 on the rights and freedoms of foreigners in Spain, and the protection procedure for such minors has therefore not been complied with. We must bear in mind that minors are protected and protected by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, of which Spain is a party, although it seems that this Government has not yet learned that Spain is a party to this convention, because we have legislation that allows minors arriving in Spain to be rejected without knowing their situation or their vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, the first risk these minors face is their own trip to Spain. Most of them migrate along maritime routes where life is played, and, once they arrive in Spain, situations of great gravity are taking place: they are declaring themselves as adults when, really, they are children, they are being subjected to hot returns, immediate returns, and they are being denied the possibility of speaking, because they are not heard, they are doubting their documentation and they are left in a legal limbo. Although this legal situation of an unaccompanied minor is the most vulnerable situation that a person may have, the successive governments we have been having in Spain have established ineffective protection systems. I say ineffective because it is not well known who they protect, because protecting is not that the centers of minors are saturated throughout the national territory and, especially, in Catalonia, Andalusia, Ceuta and Melilla; in fact, in this precarious situation in which fifteen unaccompanied minors were living in Catalonia - they were sleeping on the floor on mattresses in a room open to the public - we ask the government a question. It is true that, at that time, it was due to the delay of the administrations of the autonomous communities, but when we put the question it was in November 2017 and, after the coup of the separatists, it was the responsibility of the government. His answer was that it was the competence of the autonomous communities - always in line, in line of doing nothing and that the problems were solved alone -. If they could not protect Spain from the coup of the separatists, we could not ask them to protect these unaccompanied minors at that time. [[Mr. Vice-President, Prendes Prendes, takes the Chair.]] Because protection is not because the centres are in precarious situations, and that is reflected in the Ombudsman's latest report after several complaints of ill-treatment of minors by some centres, nor is it because unidentified minors are deported correctly, or evidence is used where they are identified as adults when they are really children. These shortcomings in these age determination processes have been taking place for many years and have been denounced for many years by both specialized NGOs and the Ombudsman. So please, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do not come up here today to say that this is the competence of the Autonomous Communities because these really serious situations that are happening today in Spain are the direct competence of the Executive. [[Applauds]] We are aware of the problem that exists, in fact our party in Melilla proposed the revision of the existing legislation in order to avoid that there are children on the street who could be captured by mafias who are engaged in drug trafficking and the abuse of vulnerable people. Save the Children has also taken an interest in this problem and, after assessing the experience of sixty-five minors, has submitted a report showing serious shortcomings in this protection system that our country has with regard to minors. But I'm going further. The Committee on the Rights of the Child published its concluding observations and noted the numerous shortcomings and outstanding subjects that Spain has with regard to children and so many others with regard to these unaccompanied minors, making a number of recommendations that are rather to put our face in a very polite manner. We believe that this initiative is not only relevant but also necessary to ensure the best interests of these children and to bring existing legislation into line with today's realities. We therefore tabled an amendment to improve the text of the Basque Nationalist Group, which established specific criteria for a transfer protocol between autonomous communities in order to avoid saturated centres in some autonomous communities; to establish protocols for decision-making based solely on the best interests of the child, and of no one else; to reform the register to include all minors, regardless of their documentation or any doubts about their age; to amend the alien regulations to ensure that these unaccompanied minors are accompanied by a lawyer to ensure that they will determine their age and ensure that they are informed and seen by the prosecutor; and, of course, to comply with the recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. In conclusion, with regard to what I said at the beginning of my speech about Spain being a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child for the protection of these children, it is so important that Spain is a party to that convention that we should ensure that this protection is complied with and guaranteed, because otherwise, it is useless. But, of course, guaranteeing that protection is perhaps more difficult for some, because minors do not vote. But we are clear that these minors cannot continue to suffer the consequences for a Government of inaction, of the Government of immobilism, because they are the most vulnerable in society. It is a pity that today we cannot ask them to comply with the commitments and to put the batteries in place, because - as we all know - it would not make much sense because this legislature is more than exhausted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Millan. Mrs García Puig has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u101	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Look, perhaps by professional distortion, since I am a linguist of training, I have not been able to avoid looking at this motion and listening to the question that Mr Barandiaran made at the plenary session of Congress, in some words, some expressions, which have seemed to me very similar to those used by the Government when it comes to this subject, the subject of unaccompanied foreign minors. You say, for example, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, that there is a situation of uncontrollability; you talk, for example, about mitigating the effects or even about risk to the system. It seems, by the interpellation, by the motion, that the Basque Group is not putting first and above all the rights of what they are, let us not forget, children and adolescents. It even seems that we are not primarily dealing with a human rights issue. It might even seem that you are not very convinced of what the Convention on the Rights of the Child says, that we should not forget that it is the most ratified treaty in history, and that it clearly states that children and adolescents have universal rights, regardless of their nationality, circumstances, migration or refuge. I wish I were wrong, but, in terms of your question and your motion, this sadly reminds us of the actions, and above all of the inactions, of the People's Party Government on this issue. Mr Barandiaran himself spoke in his interpellation of agreement between the proposals of the Basque Group and the Government; a continuance which seemed to be welded, to the point that after months and months of repeating that they would not support the General Budgets of the State for their opposition to 155, they not only voted in favour but also seemed to put their continuity ahead of the corrupt Government of the People's Party of Moncloa; budgets which, by the way, do not reflect an amendment made by my group, the Confederal Group, on the subject before us, which is the subject of the MENA. You will see, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, how you face such contradictions. In its day, the Committee on Children's and Adolescents' Rights adopted a GNP resulting from a compromise between an initiative presented by my group, by the Confederal Group, and an initiative presented by the Socialist Group. This resulting GNP was clearly aimed at guaranteeing the rights of children and adolescents, whose protection must be above any migration issue. The amendments that my group has tabled go along the same lines, have the same objective and are based on the agreement already reached in the Committee on Children. We are pleased to see that it seems that the Basque Group is reconsidering the motion and that it is drafting a compromise with which it will give a new spirit more focused on rights. If so, you will have our support. I take this opportunity to remind the Government that the Congress of Deputies exists and that it is a matter of democracy to govern in accordance with the agreements that we have reached in this House, such as the GNP that commented on the case of the MENA. Our amendments also reflect the demands of associations working to guarantee the rights of MENA, such as Save the Children or the Roots Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, the protocol that you want to develop legally is not the solution; it is not the solution to physical medical examinations which, in addition to not offering any guarantees, violate rights, and which are carried out even in cases where there is evidence of the age of the child. And, as I say, this protocol is not the solution because it does not prioritize the rights of children and adolescents to any other consideration, which is what human rights dictate. The solution to the hyperrepresentation of the MENA in some autonomous communities, as is the case of Euskadi, is the one we propose in our GNP: a division of these among the different autonomous communities, but always prioritizing the interest and desire of the children. I want to denounce that in my city, in Barcelona, we are witnesses every day to a situation that cannot continue like this any more. The lack of justice resources leaves these children absolutely unprotected and end up sleeping on the street, in the vicinity of the City of Justice, while they wait to be cared for and to have their turn in the prosecution. In short, we think that PNV and PP sometimes pose the same thing. For example, the Basque Group's proposal shows interest in speeding up the repatriation of children, something that was already raised at the time by the Social Welfare Councillor of the People's Party in Melilla, Daniel Ventura. No, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, the solution is not at all to return children to Morocco or Algeria, nor is it to lock them in centres. The solution is to have a government in the autonomous cities and competent communities and a state government that wants children minimally, that does not despise their lives and that works for public policies of respect for migrant children that ensure their rights. They show today that they agree with the life and dignity of childhood. Accept our amendments, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, and vote in favour of them, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. Let us send a message of hope in these days of unprecedented discredit of politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Clavell López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. As much as is said here today, the first point I would like to highlight is that Spain is one of the countries with the greatest and best guarantees for unaccompanied or at-risk foreign minors. The Spanish authorities always act in accordance with the precautionary measures requested by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. A clear example of this is the signing in 2014 of the interministerial agreement between the ministries of Justice, Interior, Employment, Health and Foreign Affairs, plus the Attorney General's Office. That is to say, almost half of the Spanish Government is involved in this issue and always bearing in mind that the guardianship of these minors is the responsibility of the competent services for the protection of minors in the autonomous community in which they are found. Many aspects of the situation of the MENA have been discussed in our country and some aspects have been misused with the sole aim of discrediting the coordinating work that the central Government may have. That is why we must have very clear questions, such as that the actions of the public authorities give priority to their status as a minor, regardless of their nationality or administrative status, and medical evidence is necessary, and always under the decision of the prosecutor's office, aimed at eliminating doubts about the majority or minority of the undocumented alien or in cases where false identification documents exist. In its third paragraph, the Law on the Legal Protection of Minors establishes the right to education, health care and basic social benefits under the same conditions as those of Spanish minors. In particular, consideration shall be given to the degree of integration of the applicant into Spanish society, the continuity of studies, and their effective or potential incorporation into the labour market. On the other hand, Royal Decree 162/2014 seeks to ensure that inmates who form a family unit are together and have their minor children in their company, providing them, as far as possible, with separate accommodation that guarantees an adequate degree of privacy. Even the MENA protocol, in its sixth chapter, reduces the period from nine months to three months from making the application for residence available to the minor in the juvenile centre. In depth in the motion submitted by the Basque Nationalist Party, with regard to the first two points, it is essential to point out that minors, including unaccompanied foreigners, are, like Spanish minors, protected, protected and protected by the legislation of our country. We have a regulatory framework adopted for the best interests of the child, in order to strengthen the protection and guarantees of their rights as well as their integration into Spanish society when their repatriation is not possible. The Government encouraged the adoption of two protocols as codes of good practice to enable the various ministries and signatory institutions to continue to work on the protection of these children in a more agile manner. With regard to the third point, the framework protocol provides for regular follow-up and implementation meetings under the direction of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, which is also responsible for ensuring proper inter-institutional coordination between the various administrations signing the protocol and the autonomous institutions concerned. An interministerial coordination group on children and children's rights has been established. Both mechanisms demonstrate the relevance and significance of children's rights as a whole to the Government of Spain. Without prejudice to this, the People's Parliamentary Group shows its willingness to explore other ways or mechanisms of coordination that may be proposed by the autonomous administrations as responsible for the protection and guardianship of minors. With regard to the fourth and final point, starting from the principle of the prevalence of the best interests of the child, any minor foreigner who is declared in disarray shall be placed under the guardianship of the child protection services of the autonomous communities and cities, which shall assume the guardianship of the minor. The central Government is being called upon to activate transfers between autonomous communities. It should be noted that the role of the State in this area is limited to the will of the autonomous Governments by the signing of any agreements, but to date no provision has been made for them. In spite of all this, the Ministry of Health is already working within the Interautonomous Commission for Children and Family in the creation of a working forum to study and discuss existing proposals. First of all, Mr Barandiaran, the People's Parliamentary Group is prepared, as always, to negotiate a proposal for the benefit of this group. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Clavell. On a position-setting basis, Mrs Surra Spadea has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is not strictly necessary to clarify that migration is part of the future of human history. From the very origins of man, population groups have moved from one place to another in search of more food, better land or a more benign climate. Migration movements have often also occurred as a result of persecution and war. Migration flows in today's world are very intense and respond to two fundamental economic and political causes and are directed towards countries in need of labour. There are ILO forecasts that, until at least 2050, European countries need immigrant labour. Spain, instead of having a State policy against migration, opts for the Aliens Act, and instead of favoring immigration as a State, the benefits are borne by the employers and the large capital. And so we have undocumented immigrants, who have dangerous residence papers with expulsions if they run out of work, who suffer tremendous difficulties for family reunification and for access to nationality: ridiculous and unnecessary payments and examinations, in addition to the enormous expectations in the resolution of procedures. The precarious work that this law achieves and that encourages the submerged economy leads even to the lower wages of indigenous workers and to having fewer social security contributors even so that pensioners can have decent wages. The media campaign and false rumors do the rest so that it is erroneously believed that because of immigration there are fewer jobs, that immigrants take all social assistance, that they will invade the country or that they will change their identity, or that an effect will be given called if necessary measures are legislated and contrary to this inhuman Aliens Act. This, together with the closure of borders to refugees, which causes preventable deaths in the Mediterranean, and now even aggravated by the ban on maritime rescue to NGOs and payment to third countries to stop the impossible, makes the poor families, mainly in North Africa, who send their unaccompanied minor children desperate. These so-called MENA - unaccompanied foreign minors - after surviving the mafia, the white trade, the paedophiles, the organ traffickers, those who arrive, face the current framework protocol, the subject of the Basque Parliamentary Group's appeal. The framework protocol does not seem to us to be an adequate tool to respond to this delicate situation and, taking into account that it is currently the autonomous communities that are working on the ground, we propose that specific inter-autonomous coordination be established to take measures to ensure minimum conditions of coverage and quality of care for these minors, that criteria and transfer mechanisms be introduced between communities to prevent the saturation of protection centres for migrant minors alone, and that specialized reception resources of State competence be created to bring about minors victims of trafficking in human beings. In Catalonia specifically, in 2016 the reception was 684 minors; twice as much as in the previous year. And in 2017 there were a total of 1489 minors. The General Directorate of Child and Adolescent Care was assisted by the Sabadell City Council, which offered to assist in the reception of these children - in an unprecedented experience - at the Sant Oleguer Hostel in that city. [[DGAIA]] In three months, despite 155, DGAIA has already created 600 new places in Catalonia. It should be added that the social action director of Sabadell who has participated in this task is a Catalan of immigrant origin, because we come to build together with others and we are sure that with a state policy in favour of workers - immigrants and indigenous people - we will be able to build a society and a better coexistence for all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion put forward by the PNV is at first glance favourable for a solution to the situation of the MENA, and I say at first glance, because if we continue reading we could say that the motion is somewhat sybilian, if I may. My group may agree with what is proposed, but we need to be very careful about how it is done. We agree that there is a need for reflection and new direction in addressing the issue of MENA, as what we have now does not satisfy anyone, especially minors. This reflection must be based irremediably on the recommendations of the Ombudsman and the concluding observations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. First and foremost: we are talking about that before foreigners are children, children who are trapped between two political logics of our country, the logic of child protection policy and the logic of foreign policy, with clearly different objectives. The position of the Socialist Group is reflected in a non-legislative proposal adopted by the Committee on Children: repealing the framework protocol and drawing up a new protocol coordinating the various administrations, guaranteeing the right of these children in accordance with national legislation and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In other words, prioritise your status as a minor over that of a foreigner. A couple of days ago, a mother was asking for protection for her son. It is very respectable, even if the child has a beard, twenty-nine years and his parents have been convicted of twelve offences, including money laundering, misappropriation and tax offences. I look at the People's Group bench. This son lives as far away from the risk of social exclusion as Switzerland from Genoa Street. Today we come to ask for protection for those who really need it, for children who sleep on the street, who sometimes have no guarantee of a roof or food or care that the State should seek from them because they are minors. We therefore call for a greater involvement of the Government of Spain, which looks elsewhere at this issue, as in so many others, and which is neither expected nor expected, and for the creation of a specific inter-autonomous commission on migrant children not accompanied as a periodic and coordinating body with resources of a state nature and in support of the autonomous communities that bear the most burden, especially the gates of entry or through which minors move. We are talking about Ceuta and Melilla, Andalusia, Catalonia, the Basque Country, the Canary Islands or Murcia. We are aware that we are talking about a situation that escapes our geographical boundaries and Europe needs to get involved. What don't we like about the current protocol? For starters, we don't like the age determination procedure. It is known that it is unreliable, that it must be used in an indiscriminate manner and that it must be the last resort to be used, and that it must always be decided in favour of the child, which is not the case, as the Ombudsman and the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court have denounced. Another reason why we would modify the protocol is to guarantee legal aid to the child from the moment of his/her identification. What should be changed more? The judge of first instance must be given the power to determine age and not, as has been the case so far, be placed in the Public Prosecutor's Office. At the State level, there are no educational and employment policies aimed at unaccompanied children under the same conditions as Spanish minors, despite the fact that the law says so. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u108	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. The ambiguity of the provisions of the Aliens Regulation and the protocol we are discussing today regarding the processing times of documentation has led the Administration to always apply the most restrictive criteria by exhausting the deadlines. And, finally, what is the use of all efforts aimed at the inclusion of the child if the protection ceases on the same day as he turns eighteen? Ladies and gentlemen, no one would think of leaving our son helpless when he is eighteen years old; therefore, the State should not do so with the children under guardianship. We disagree, Mr Barandiaran, when you say that the problem is that the protocol is not being complied with. No, the problem is the essence of the same protocol, which does not reflect the reality of these foreign minors and which causes them situations of lack of protection and violation of their fundamental rights. I'm done. We are going to support them, even knowing and bearing in mind that their initiative is unambitious because we think it is the beginning of a reflection on the improvements that the system needs. In troubled political times, ladies and gentlemen, priorities must be very well defined. Let us not forget that those who are arriving at our borders are first and foremost children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs Ferrer. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Barandiaran whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u111	We will try to integrate all of them into a compromise amendment. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u112	I would ask you to send it to us before the vote to record. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations may, in common, on the situation of blockage in the post market of agreements on the report of the subcommission of the state pact against gender violence, as well as on the development and implementation of public policies of equality. [[File number 173/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u113	We now discuss the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the situation of blockade in the implementation of the agreements of the report of the subcommission of the State Pact against Gender Violence, as well as in the development and implementation of public policies of equality. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u114	Thank you. Good afternoon. Madam absent minister, although I hope you are seeing us as we speak of your reprobation: the kellys; Juana is in my house!; Sister, I do believe you; the women journalists; The Pandora's Box; The women of the book; the workers of the Home Help Service; the Spartans of Coca-Cola in struggle; the 8-M; If we stop, it is for the world; Quiet, sister, here is your herd; Tell it; the women of Spanish Radiotelevision. Since Mrs Montserrat took office, feminism in Spain has gained unprecedented social, cultural and political weight. Feminism for this minister is incumbent on her in the exercise of running her ministry, because she cannot think of health, social services, the lives of people in a situation of dependence, with functional diversity, the situation of children or policies of drug use if it is not from a feminist perspective. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u115	I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u116	And it seems the word to the government doesn't bother him. In fact, the Government uses it to self-proclaim feminist, as is the case with Mrs Báñez, even if she has signed a demolishing labor reform, especially for women, or to say that we come to teach feminist lessons and we are not who to do it, as Mrs De Cospedal did this morning. I'll repeat it again. It's on the street... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u117	Mrs. Fernández Castañón, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u118	This is being said by the street and because of democratic responsibility and because we are feminists, my group has been saying it here: the farewells of the Women's Institute; the Women's Library; 0.16; campaigns blaming young women for drinking alcohol because they can be raped; vice-presidents of the advisory council who are strategic directors in companies that sell their products to public health; 3100 people on waiting lists for dependency; 44 million euros without implementing in the 2017 budget and 100 people who die a day without receiving the aid granted; a dismantling of the public social services network with an infamous funding of 48 million euros in their general budgets; one out of every three children is at risk of poverty and 16 per cent of these children are in severe poverty; failure by the Government to ensure the conditions of universal accessibility effectively; 44 per cent of the Spanish population cannot follow a healthy diet due to their cost; the National Drug Plan emptied of the budget. [[applause]] The minister has ignored the revolution that is already taking place. What the Government has done, what it has heard within its Council of Ministers, has been to veto all those proposals for legislation that sought to respond to these demands of the citizenry. The Child Benefit Act, because we find the situation of the child, vetoed, alarming. The law on equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity leave because we take the pay gap, the glass ceiling and the sexual division of labor seriously, vetoed. What the Government has done has been to pose in photos, for example with a state pact. By the way, right on the way out to testify at the National High Court. And we continue - you continue - without knowing who the mysterious thief M. Rajoy is. Photos and prints have been taken. You have been made, minister - now present, I welcome you - photos with wet papers and you have lied. The minister has lied to this House and to the citizenry and has also tacitly acknowledged that she lied after repeating that there were 200 million euros for the State Pact on Gender Violence when her group, the People's Group, joined the amendment so that there would be at least 120 million euros for the autonomous communities and municipalities. Of the 80 who have to stay in the General Administration of the State and who are no longer speaking last week. And seeing how they then applauded and jailed the approval of the budgets and what they entailed, they involve resources for the State Security Forces and Corpses, that you don't have to wait to file a complaint in the units specialized in macho violence until Monday because it turns out it's weekend, training legal operators, services, services, care, help. What it implies is seen to enter by one ear and exit by the other. And still the People's Parliamentary Group, after voting on these General State Budgets, dared to say: Yes you can. For you it is clear that you can: you can steal, you can lie and you can defraud citizens. [[Applauds]] But no, we cannot - and I am addressing the minister still - deny women's rights for longer: our right to a life free from machist violence, our right to decide on our own body without then coming a small letter that questions it, our right to work on equality, to care on equality and to be cared for as well. By the way, Minister, the International Day of Action for Women's Health was celebrated yesterday - as has been happening since 1987. There was neither a mention nor a tweet and that passed through the ministry by two flanks. It's not that he's going to fix his ministry with tweets or gestures now, but we see that there aren't even gestures. Something more than a gesture, Minister, would be for you to address the House, the citizenry, the microphones or wherever you are exercising your role as Minister by respecting the Law on Effective Equality and using a language that does not invisibly and does not exclude us. One thinks that being a minister - with a - you could better understand how women have been historically separated from public space and what battles the feminist pioneers have given us to get out of the gynecium to which even great thinkers to whom we owe certain advances, such as Rousseau, wanted us to have relegated, but it turns out not to. It can be seen that this ministry of sustainability of life has taken nothing seriously. In these times of women's revolution we have almost seen her speak more to the media about Catalonia than about her role in the ministry. Today we are voting for it to be rejected because it is already good. We are voting for you to leave, Minister, who is here now, and also for the entire government; just as we said a year ago and just as we will support the motion of censure that has now been tabled. And I take advantage of this time, and you too, Minister - and I say this to you because I have probably devoted the most important part of my life to inviting you to reading - with Goldman, Beauvoir, Zambrano, Rich, Federici, Fraser, Davis, Pazos or Gimeno, because there are so many women who think about how to make policies to place the lives of all people, without any exclusion, on the axis. We owe to them and we owe to those who will come. Minister, read and stop making your ministry and the House ridiculous. Let us reprimand Dolors Montserrat and cast this government out of pure democratic dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, Sofia, we want to reprimand the minister; of course we want to reprimand the minister. We have it very clearly. It seems indecent to us what's going on. We find the eight months without implementing the measures of the State Pact indecent. The failure to comply with the economic agreement that we have entered into in this House seems to us to be indecent. We find campaigns that justify rape of young women to be indecent. We find indecent promotional videos where nurses appear with covers and miniskirts. We find it indecent until she appointed an anti-abortionist as chief of staff. It seems indecent to us, yes, and we want to reprimand it; of course we want to reprimand it. [[Applauds]] The problem is that this government doesn't care who we fail in this House. You don't care what this House says. We can blame the entire government if it gives us the will, that they do not leave. In fact, we have already blamed four: Montoro for an unconstitutional tax amnesty, Dastis and Zoido for failing to meet the quotas of refugees and Catalá for interfering in the investigations of corruption cases of their own party. His own party had ended up convicted of the same cases of corruption. And what did M. Rajoy say? That you don't leave, that you sit on your couch, that you don't leave, that you don't want to leave. They don't care what we say and what we do in Parliament. We have a chance to put an end to this, we have a chance to adopt a motion of censure this Friday, to put an end to this indecent government. We have the possibility, and there I hold hands with Citizens; let us put an end to this suffering, let us really put an end to this legislature, let us send them home now. We have the chance, let's not wait any longer, this very Friday we can send them home. This Government is agonizing and we can turn to corruption and indecency. Let us approve that motion of censure tabled by the Socialist Party, let us approve it because people deserve it, young and old, urban and rural people deserve it, men and women, even if you do not see differences between them. We all deserve it; we deserve that vote of censure on Friday, we deserve a vote of censure now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm speaking from the seat. This motion tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party has two parts; it has an exposive and denunciation part, the part in which a catalogue of breaches, abandonment of obligations and bad practices is made which my group can agree with in many of them because we believe that they are verifiable data, and it has a second part, which is the solution that proposes to that which denounces, which is the reprobation, the cessation and the replacement of the minister. On the eve of a motion of censure - because comrade Marta has now spoken almost more about the motion of censure than the reprobation - I do not know whether it is most appropriate to present this proposal now, when the next morning we will have the opportunity - each voting for what I vote - to censure not only a minister but the entire government. So, I don't know if this was the right thing to do; they can say it was an issue that was already on the agenda. In any case, on the part denounced by Podemos I agree that there are a number of truly regrettable issues. We understand and share the political splendour of those who have presented it for certain circumstances that you cite in the motion and of which we too are participants. The measures taken in the State Covenant against Gender Violence are bound to be complied with, no doubt, but I believe that there are some setbacks in the excess for hyperbole and exaggeration in some statements, among other things, because you too sometimes get the focus and not everything you suggest is the Government's obligation, there are also the competences of other communities, etc., which seem to be obvious and everything gets in the same bag. [[The lady]] I believe that the subject of the undersecretary, Mrs González-Criado, is an element that you have included and does not seem to us to be the most decent and correct. In any case, we believe that the denouncing party is the one who is, are facts found, and I believe that we must work to ensure that this does not exist, so that this is resolved. However, I do not know whether the best solution is the Minister's reprobation, although we share many issues. We will therefore maintain our position at the time of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u123	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a pride for all the Members of this House that some colleagues spent hours working on behalf of all the report of the subcommittee of the State Pact against Gender Violence and that it was unanimously adopted. However, if it is not put in place, it does not have a budget and does not translate into the implementation of public policies of equality, that work will have served no purpose. Moreover, if the Pact against Gender Violence, which should have been called a pact against macho violence, was approved with the sole intention of the Government to take the photo, assuming feminism to curb the rise of the struggle on the streets and the social mobilization of hundreds of thousands of young women and women workers, it is a cardboard pact. What's the reason he's stopping? Is this an ideological question? Is it also an ideological issue that the judicial system does not give women credibility to their aggressors? What happened to La Manada's resolution? In any case, the massive protests throughout the territory against this resolution did not go unnoticed by anyone. What was the response of the Spanish State? To create a commission, which in most cases is lost in time and does not solve anything and which the minister forms at first only with twenty men. Worse, impossible. We all know that the pact is not perfect, but we are also aware that it is an opportunity to start working with determination and conscience. Many of the agreed measures do not require legislative reforms, they are simply improvements in prevention and in awareness-raising or revisions of protocols or training. So we asked: For when? The State Pact agreed to a budget of EUR 200 million per year for five years to activate all measures. In fact, and it can be said once again and whenever it is necessary, it is a ridiculous amount, especially if we compare it, for example, with the investment of road rescue, which cost EUR 3718 million, or with the cuts in education, which since 2012 amount to EUR 10 billion. It is a endowment that should almost entirely be for the autonomous communities, since it is these that have the competencies that allow the development of the plan. Shortly before the end of the year we were assured that this budget of 200 million euros would be managed as follows: 100 million euros by the autonomous communities, 80 million euros by the Executive and 20 million by the municipalities. What happened? Machist violence is not only the fruit of intolerant and savage personal attitudes, it is also the consequence of a society in which violence and machism are implicitly and daily lived and legitimized. The struggle is not just the eradication of macho violence, but the eradication of machoism, and let us hope that one day it will also be the eradication of violence. With all this picture, with more women murdered by their partners or ex-partners and almost in mid-June we came to the adoption of sexist budgets and with insufficient resources to carry out the state pact. In the end, I suppose that in order not to be ashamed of their face and before the first sentence of the Gürtel, there was no other left to the party of M. Rajoy that join the transactional that the opposition, in bloc, raised last week and that, in the end, will add 200 million euros to the General Budgets of the State of 2018; insufficient, clearly insufficient, but a starting point to work for a civilized society. Everything else is going back in history. We, as republicans and free-thinkers, bet on the future that will undoubtedly be a free, democratic and feminist republic. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u126	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, frankly, I am ashamed to come up again today to this rostrum to speak again about the State Pact against Macho Violence; a pact that has been approved for eight months and has not been put into effect. It is shameful that the People's Party, the Government, Minister Montserrat, Mr Rajoy did not move a single finger to implement it. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we do not forget how Mr Rajoy used this pact. He presented it the same day he had to testify in a court for corruption, now already accredited, by the way, of his party; he organized a macro-act presenting the pact as if it were something exclusive of the People's Party. That day I too felt shame, shame of others. As the events have unfolded, what we now feel is outrage, because it has clearly been shown that the only thing Mr Rajoy wanted was to bleach his image at the expense of the victims. [[Applauds]] The pact doesn't matter to you, ladies and gentlemen. Still, I'll tell you that we Citizens are not giving up. We'll get this pact to materialize... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u128	... because it is a good pact that will help many women, and we will do so whoever is in government and, of course, we hope that, as appropriate, it will be the Spaniards who decide this. But, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, it is also shameful that victims of macho violence have to witness another theatre, such as the one they bring us today. Precisely the group that did not support the state pact now calls for compliance; the group that, together with the Socialist Party, refuses to approve budgets that include the money the victims need. It takes real cynicism to present an initiative like this and it takes defachation to get up here, to this rostrum, to look with airs of superiority at the rest of the Members of this House - those who are not of your party, of course - and to pretend to give us lessons of feminism to all of us. [[Applauds]] Their feminism, which booed women - where did the sorority lie, deputies of Podemos?-; their feminism, which forbids pacting with the one in front. Feminist politics means reaching agreements. Do you know who said this? You, Mrs. Castañón. Where are those agreements? How many have you reached in this legislature? Zero. Another contradiction of yours. [[Applauds]] You don't have any moral authority, you don't, Mrs. Castañón. Your party always nothing in the pure incoherence. We are already very used to seeing how they say one thing and then they do just the opposite. The feminism you practice is no exception to all this, ladies and gentlemen. Look, they're in no position to teach anyone lessons. They have never wanted the state pact against gender-based violence to be put in place. The victims are a mere instrument that serves them to give spectacle and to try to paste a certain ideology that has nothing to do with feminism, by the way. Please tell me what is positive about this initiative for the victims. Of course, Minister Montserrat deserves a reprobation, but not just her, but the entire government team, starting with the president, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] But what do you think will happen if this House agrees today with the Minister's reprobation? Will it change those women's lives? They know very well they don't. Other ministers have already been repudiated and nothing has changed. This motion, with all due respect, does not contribute anything to the fight against macho violence. It is true that no action has been taken by the Government, but this motion is not going to contribute to it. Change strategy at once and be, for the first time, a little more practical, please. We have put forward different initiatives for its implementation. We have sent several letters to the President and to the Bureau of Congress demanding the establishment of the Commission to follow up on this pact, which is the tool we have here in Parliament to force the People's Party. Thanks to the insistence of my group, this Commission is already set up today. In it, we have also called for the appearance of all the ministers and government officials who must implement this pact, because it is not just Minister Montserrat. Apart from these appearances, we are the only group, by the way, that has put forward another type of initiative there so that the Government can act as a matter of urgency at once. Ladies and gentlemen, aside from partisan interests, we have negotiated and voted in favour of a budget that includes the money from the Pact against Gender Violence. What have you done? Vote against it, I think. We have never surrendered nor will we. You know why? Because we have in mind all those women who are suffering and who seek to hold onto something so that they can get out of that well; also the survivors, who have come out and need help to make their lives better; the orphans of this violence and also the girls, who will be able to suffer it tomorrow. Whatever happens, we're not giving up because it's our obligation not to. It is true whether or not the Minister of Equality is stopped, this legislature is already dead; the corruption, already accredited, of the People's Party has killed it. But what this country needs is stability, so, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, if you really want the state pact to move forward, I invite you to leave so much spectacle and join us to set it in motion to govern who governs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes Rivera. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cuello Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u130	Thank you, President. It seems that after listening to Mrs Reyes the only party that has worked in this House for the state pact has been Citizens, which I am surprised, because here we have worked very hard on all the comrades of that subcommission. [[Applauds]] This motion by Podemos takes hours, Mrs Castejón, hours of work so that they can correct the errors that are in it and that they are not managed with an amendment of the other political forces; errors like that of the first point, where they urge the government to reproach a minister when the reprover is the House. Ladies and gentlemen, today the debate is about reproaching the passiveness of a ministry, blaming the indifference and non-compliance of a minister with the situation of absolute unprotectiveness to which millions of people in our country are thrown. It is clear that in this legislature we have not had a Minister of Health, a Minister of Social Services or much less a Minister of Equality. There is indifference and non-compliance with the state pact. The PP has been surrounded - it is clear and has been shown - by the pressure on the street of the feminist movement, which has shown that in relation to the fight against macho violence it will not admit any regression; in the House it has also been cornered by the negotiation of the Socialist Group with the rest of the groups in the parliamentary arch and there is nothing left for it to support - with little enthusiasm, that is to say - the amendment of the 120 million that it lacks from the budgetary commitment. In the face of loneliness, they have chosen the covenant. Mrs Montserrat, it seems that you are not prepared to fulfil the House's mandate by approving the pact with Podemos' abstention. Eight months - they have already said - have passed since the adoption of the pact and we do not yet have a timetable for the implementation of the measures or the funds made available to autonomous communities and municipalities to fulfil their competences. It is clear that we have a long way to go to eradicate macho violence, but that way will be even more tortuous as long as Mrs Montserrat is in charge of the ministry, and the People's Party is in charge of the government. [[Applauds]] There is also non-compliance in health care. Only a week ago, the plenary adopted a motion by the Socialist Group which made an amendment to the entire policy of its Ministry of Health, which would entail changes that would affect from the universality of co-sponsorship assistance, through private management reforms, the cohesion fund or the withdrawal of judicial resources to certain autonomous initiatives, because you preach dialogue but practice noise and imposition. There are also breaches in social services, Mrs Montserrat. It seems indifferent to the numbers of child poverty in our country. Children's organizations demand urgent and profound changes and move forward in the design of public policies that will improve the situation of children in our country, which with this Government is impossible, and the figures speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Monserrat has abandoned, entirely abandoned, the system of care for dependence, after her Government has weakened it to the extreme. It again suspends the agreed level of funding and does not allocate a budget line to recover social security contributions from the system for professional carers. There is currently no waiting list where 3,000 people die a month who had a recognized right without receiving services or benefits. As a note, I would like to say that in the Andalusian Parliament, last Thursday, the People's Party, its party, voted in favour of an initiative by the Socialist Group to raise economic benefits in the family environment and to professional carers by 15% and to recover contributions to these carers under the exclusive responsibility of the State. As you can see, even in their own ranks they do not support their measures. This ministry continues to slow down progress in the integration of persons with disabilities. You're not getting rid of any area, Mrs. Monserrat! As an example, the one reflected in this motion: non-compliance to achieve the basic accessibility conditions for spaces, products and services. There is no provision for progress in this area. We're also talking about consumption. The data is alarming. The number of online players grows by 34% in a year. We have demanded from this House that the Government put in place measures to protect children in particular from such harmful games. They approve of the initiatives in the Commission, but then this measure is not carried out by the People's Party Government. In short, and to conclude, it is necessary to reverse cuts and setbacks in equality and social policies carried out by this minister, her ministry and her Government; we will have the opportunity to reproach her next Friday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuello Pérez. Mrs Alba Mullor has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I wanted to address Mrs Sorlí to tell her that in these banks and in this government there are no indecent people; in these banks and in this government there are people worried about the real problems of the Spanish, and if you are looking for indecent people, look for them in other banks, not in these. [[applause]] [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the whole House and all the Spaniards agree that only one victim caused by gender-based violence is too much and that is why we have worked tirelessly to place the fight against gender-based violence as a real state policy, except, logically, the group that brought us this motion here today, to plenary. It is a motion that no longer refers only to the pact, as they initially presented, but calls for the reprobation of the minister, precisely of the minister most committed to equality and the fight against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you have been completely wrong. In a new exercise of irresponsibility, they come here today to present a motion to reprimand the minister who has achieved two very important milestones in just a year and a half: the much-awaited pact to combat gender-based violence and the greater budget allocated in history to fight it. Mrs Fernández, your speech last May 9th was an account of inaccuracies or inconsistencies - let's leave it at that - but the motion you are presenting today is full of lies and inaccuracies. [[Applauds]] They are in such a hurry that even imaginary appointments are invented. Firstly, the pact was not adopted in this House, what was approved was the subcommission's report, and you come to consider the report to be the pact and leave out of it all the actors who signed it and reduce them to mere comrades who have had no participation and whose adherence is irrelevant to them. The pact was signed on 27 December 2017, not in September, as they have also stated from Citizens, with the accession of autonomous communities, municipalities, political parties, administration of justice and trade union, business and civil associations. You know that, but you don't care. Secondly, its assertion that no measure of the pact has been implemented is totally false. It is false - also in that falsehood has involved Citizens - and again they know it, but it doesn't matter to them; they don't give a shit about deceiving citizens, taking away the hope of the victims, their sons and daughters and, in passing, trying to scratch a handful of votes supported by assertions that are not true. With regard to legislative measures, there is a short period of six months and the laws are not done in an hour nor are they reformed with a tweet, they require a huge amount of work and...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u133	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u134	A preliminary draft organic law reforming Organic Law 1/2004, incorporating the reforms of the Criminal Procedure Act, the Criminal Code and the Civil Code, among others, is now under way and will soon be submitted to the Monitoring Commission and the Standing Committees. With regard to the remaining measures, which are said to have not been implemented, the fact is that with a five-year time horizon it would be assumed that a 20% annual implementation would already be sufficient, but to date, less than six months later, 18% of them have already been implemented and, of the remaining, 57.5% are in progress. I would like to tell you that this parliamentary group will soon register the relevant requests to appear before the Follow-up Committee, so that you can have complete information and, again, you can continue to ignore it. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you know the calendar and you don't care. The funding was already in the State General Budgets Bill, but for the sake of greater consensus we changed its location, listening to the other parliamentary groups and yet having rejected it. You have rejected the largest allocation in budgets for the fight against gender-based violence because you are only interested in confrontation and you are not interested in the work that we could all do to fight this scourge. Having said that, once the argument of economic violence has been dismantled, we cannot admit and I do not admit, Mrs Fernández Castañón, that from United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea they attribute an institutional responsibility to the Government in the murders for violence against women. I do not admit it, just as I would never admit it if I directed it to Governments of another political colour. [[Applauds]] With that statement, they go beyond all limits. The man responsible is the murderer, he's the abuser, and you're not going to relieve him of responsibility by turning it over to the government. That's a game of trilers, it's fake and malicious. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that in the face of the black country you paint from your pessimistic perspective, thanks to the measures taken by the People's Party Government, today there are more women working than ever before, the wage gap has been reduced by four points and is below the European average. In addition, it has been a Government of the People's Party that has included equality as a cross-cutting principle of the education system. I could still list measures, but it doesn't make sense, because it doesn't matter. You have not come to build or add, you move with complete comfort in the conflict and outside it you have no speech. That is why they did not join the Pact against Gender Violence and that is why they continue to make a partisan policy on this issue, even if it is necessary to distort the reality to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the one to blame and blame today is Podemos, who did not even sign the pact and who did not approve the largest budget allocation in history for the fight against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] The state pact is a determined commitment of this government and a personal commitment of President Mariano Rajoy and was not reached to stay in wet paper. Victims of gender-based violence expect our support and affection and not that we are here today arguing. They're doing the victims a weak favor today. It is a sad day, but don't worry, the Government and this group will continue to work on what you haven't done, supporting the victims, their children and their families to eradicate gender-based violence in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, inequality is the germ of violence and, citing the Minister's words in her speech to the question of Podemos, equality is the key to opening up minds and achieving a just, equal and free society of all kinds of violence. That equality is not yours or ours, it's everyone's. Do not be arrogant, ladies and gentlemen, because you are doing women, victims, their children and society in general a little favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u135	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SPANISH POSITION ON THE STRENGTHENING OF THE ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION AND THE NEW MULTURAL FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK OF THE EU 2021-2027. [[File number 173/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u136	We continue with the motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Group on the Spanish position on strengthening economic and monetary union and the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union 2021-2027. Mr Saura García has the floor for the initiative's group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the European summit of 28 and 29 June is crucial for the future of Spain, for the future of Europe and, of course, for all Europeans, especially at a time when the Italian crisis is now contaminating risk premiums and economic problems in Europe. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, seriously, we are playing a lot at this summit. First of all, we are playing with the fact that the Spanish economy and the European economy are much more resilient to economic crises; we are playing with the fact that when there is an economic crisis, the cost is much lower; we are also playing with the capacity, the effectiveness to combat inequality and the insecurity that occurs for millions of Spaniards and also for millions of Europeans; we are playing with so many things. These days it has been discovered that, after nine years since the beginning of the crisis, the necessary instruments have not been put in place and the appropriate policies have not been made to ensure that bank risk and sovereign risk, that diabolical loop, can be broken. In this context, the Government has made a proposal which, unfortunately, has not passed through this Parliament, which has not been debated or agreed here. Moreover, at this very important summit, Spain has to assert its role, its strength, its power as the third or fourth economy of the euro area, but unfortunately, at this crucial summit, Rajoy has resigned from the debate on the future of Europe and from the debate on the reform of the euro, for at least two reasons. Firstly, because the proposal which the Government has made and which has not been discussed in the Congress of Deputies is a very unambitious proposal, which puts us on the line of Europeanism in all the countries of the European Union; it is even less ambitious than the proposal of the European Commission or what the European Central Bank is calling for in an alarming way, which is calling for to be ambitious and, logically, to move forward in fiscal policy. That is the first reason why we say that Rajoy has resigned from the reform of the euro. Secondly, because of the Spanish Government's lack of credibility and reputation at a time when it is surrounded by corruption. This lack of reputation in Europe means that at such an important summit the position of Spain in Europe is not heard with the strength necessary to address the problem that we have at the moment, which is important, because we are playing with the future and the well-being of Europeans in the medium term. I heard a few seconds ago the murmuring of Members of the People's Party when I was talking about the pollution between bank risk and sovereign risk. I just have to tell you that, in fact, the evolution of the risk premium these days has nothing to do with national factors. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Yes; I will finish if I may, Madam President. I say that it has nothing to do with national factors, and this, in essence, is evidenced by the fact that it is the risk premium that has best behaved in the four peripheral economies of the European Union; for example, today the 10-year bonus has fallen in relation to the rest of the bonds. But, gentlemen, in our country, if I may, we don't have a risk premium problem, we have a risk premium problem, which is called Luis Bárcenas. [[Applauds]] This is the problem that Spain has, not as a risk premium, but as a risk premium, of Luis Bárcenas and of the corruption of the People's Party, the most important problem that our country has, also the economic one. And at that meeting we are going to talk, ladies and gentlemen, not only about the banking union. I have heard here in recent days that only at that summit will we talk about the banking union, and I have taken the trouble of going on the agenda of the meeting and not only will we talk about the banking union - we could not just talk about the banking union - but we will talk about the fiscal union, the reform of the euro as a whole. We could not just talk about the banking union, as the minister said here, and we are going to talk about the reform of the euro as a whole. And why can't we just talk about the banking union? Firstly, because the complete banking union, an effective banking union cannot be tackled if there is no fiscal union as it is becoming apparent these days. If there is no fiscal union that supports, in the end there are problems with the banks, there are problems in the balance sheets of the banks and there is pollution between the banking crisis and the public debt crisis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk only about banking union without talking about fiscal union, as the document on the agenda of the summit on 28 and 29 says itself. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk only about monetary policy and banking policy because the European Central Bank itself has shown that monetary policy is overburdened, that it has its limits, and that those anti-crisis stabilisers are needed to be able to deal with the risks that we are currently experiencing. What, ladies and gentlemen, is the Socialist Group's motion? The Socialist Group's motion...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u140	Mr. Saura, you've already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u141	Madam President, I conclude by saying that we would like to have the support of the House, because at that very important summit the position of the Government is a position of minimal, unambitious, and unfortunately Rajoy has also resigned from that European summit. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u142	Mr Roldán Monés has the floor to defend the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u143	Thank you, President. Mr Saura, for once I think we will agree on something, and I think and share with you the diagnosis you make: Europe is at a fragile moment. A year ago we were all watching television screens and we were basically on the edge of the cliff, because an extreme right-wing populist government was about to win the elections in France, a central nation for the European project. Fortunately, ambitious reformism, the capacity of a government that broke with the immobilism of bipartisanism offered an alternative, and he told the French: Europe can be changed, citizens can be better protected and an alternative project to bipartisanism can be had, and he managed to win the elections against immobilism and populism. I also agree that this government has been unable - we are the fourth or third nation, as we see it, of Europe - to convey to us the story of Europe. I do not know what this government's account of Europe is, I do not know it. What do they say in the debates that have been taking place in Europe for a long time? There is the report by the five presidents, Macron is talking about reformulating democracy in Europe, and there are several European governments with it. Even Merkel is more ambitious in her Europeanism than you are. We are talking about reforming monetary union to provide a mechanism, a backstop, for economies in crisis. We are talking about providing a common budget for the eurozone to correct the asymmetric imbalances we have. We are talking about preparing to better protect citizens, but as in everything else this government is unable to offer answers. [[Laughs from Mr Hernando Fraile]] Let me tell you something. There's something even worse. It is true that Italy is now at a time of extreme fragility and that the euro is beginning to move. We are still with an incomplete eurozone and a governance that makes us fragile to another speculative attack and another potential crisis. A corrupt government cannot be the guarantee of stability for this country, a government unable to lead reforms in Europe cannot be the alternative to this country, but, Mr Saura, the alternative cannot be a government of eighty-four deputies, with a government coalition that looks like the war bar of galaxies. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] What is this? Do you come here to claim stability, to claim leadership in Europe with the government that is offering the Spaniards? Why are they so afraid of the election? Offer a project for the future. We fight for government alternatives to offer an alternative reformist project to the corruption endemic to the People's Party. [[Protests]] Let us fight in the ballot box and not go to the emergency, which can lead us to a situation of enormous fragility. That is how your alternative is going to be read in Europe. With the government they are proposing, we are not going to get reforms or lead an alternative project in Europe. Neither the immobilism of the People's Party nor the occurrences of the Socialist Party are the solution. The solution, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, is to go to elections as soon as possible to offer a reformist and future alternative for this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u144	Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Last week we welcomed the debate on the question and today the debate on the motion, a debate in which the word that is most repeated is unity and union, something which - it is true - the European project is currently lacking, because of internal processes which question its usefulness in preserving the interests of each State and in ensuring effective responses to common challenges. For us, ladies and gentlemen, that would be the most relevant reflection in today's debate. In other words, the strength of the European project lies in union, in unity as a value, as a good that we must preserve. Also here, faced with secessionist adventures and attempts to build artificial superregions based primarily on exclusive feelings and identities. That is why we could apply in this debate today these very clumsy principles, both in last week's debate and in the motion itself. When we talk about Europe, we would like to see, when we put forward debates on proposals, to set out in advance those agreements which transfer that union, because that unity of all defending the things that affect Spain makes us much stronger in our positions. Hearing the speeches, the truth is that it is more what unites us than what separates us, beyond the moment of the moment in which we are now. I thought that because the debate was so technical, so complex, we could have reached a consensus solution among all in order to transfer a majority opinion to that summit, but that was not the case. We want a certain opportunism, an artifice or a protagonism that does not correspond to what we should do. It seems good to me that they have reached an agreement with Citizens, but in this case an effort should have been made to reach an agreement with the Government. You say that it is ambitious, but I believe that in this case it is prudent; prudent are the technicians that there are working there and very professional people who have been working for many hours to defend the interests of Spain, to present our proposals, etc. Beyond that, I think that in the union we should apply here. It is true that we are going to establish a number of very important shared European mechanisms to correct, monitor, evaluate, detect, monitor, account for and sanction fiscal, banking and monetary matters, but the first guarantee of stability would be to have good management of things here, and to maintain the commitments we have made to Europe and the discipline we must continue to maintain. I therefore say to you that if we had reached an agreement that could move a common position from Spain to that summit, I would have our vote in favour of your motion, but if we do not make that effort by the end of the day, you will not be able to count on our vote in favour and we are sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u146	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u147	Thank you, President. Mr Saura, the situation in Europe is indeed complicated and not since the last few weeks or months. It is a situation that is not resolved and for which everyone - each to his or her extent - is responsible. In any case, your proposal calls on the government to defend before the European institutions the principles with which we generally agree. As we are sure that our parliamentary groups in the European Parliament and our governments will also defend them at different levels, we will support the proposal and we will vote in favour. What happens is that the whole debate this week is a bit strange and everything is very volatile. Now my colleague, Mr Roldán, who is not a party member, said that to give stability the best was the elections, but last week he was justifying and voting for a budget to give stability. [[Applauds]] Everything is so volatile and so strange! Mr. Saura, who knows who's going to the summit in late June? No one knows. Since they have tabled a motion of censure, try to find the majority and perhaps a socialist president can go to the summit in late June, and we can agree on what he is going to defend on behalf of the whole House. They have a few days, a few hours left. Work it out and let your party mates, today's and the past's help as well, because some of you don't seem to want to help you very much and I'm telling you honestly. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u148	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u149	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Group is proposing a very similar motion to a GNP which has already been tabled in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Competitiveness a few weeks ago. The fact that we are part of a monetary union has many implications, not only economic, but also political, social and cultural; of course we have been able to observe it with the crisis that has struck us. But it must also be recognized that after the instability after the global crisis of 2008 and the Greek crisis is when the necessary institutions have been created to have a banking union. It must be recognized that monetary union and fiscal union have improved with the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism, and it must also be said that budgetary supervision and discipline have been strengthened with the TwoPack, the SixPack, the Fiscal Pact and the European Semester. The Banking Union has also launched the Single Supervisory Mechanism, as well as the Banking Resolution Mechanism, which we have also seen with the resolution of the People's Bank, although - to be said - it has left many unknowns in the air and has in some cases left in evidence the lack of transparency of the latter. Despite all these mechanisms, it seems that this is not enough, and of course we agree, as set out in the motion, that economic and monetary union must be deepened. And that is also in Europe's road map, and so the leaders of the European countries are instructed to complete this banking union by means of various instruments, such as the creation of European deposit insurance, debt resolution mechanisms and a fiscal stabilisation mechanism, which implies a genuine European integration project and which will help to support economic and social convergence, and to maintain macroeconomic stability and strengthen the framework for the coordination of economic policies of the European Union and the euro area. For us the government's proposal for the reform of the euro, which calls for the completion of the banking union with the establishment of a European deposit guarantee system and a support fund, the creation of a stabilisation capacity and a European monetary fund, has perhaps been little innovative with regard to what was proposed four years ago by the same party, a position which seems to be more aligned with Germany. On the other hand, the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, which is closer to France, seems to us to have an excessive battery of proposals with good intentions, but we believe that more priorities must be set and set. It is not about putting the more, the better, it is about moving forward in these European institutions, and for this it is necessary that the states be at the forefront of the debate with clear and concrete proposals, and that they also position themselves on the proposals of the rest of the countries in a clear way. It should also be said that the road map the Europe brand and its priority for this July is banking union, perhaps leaving some issues for a later moment. That is why, despite the fact that the motion contains many important aspects that will have to be raised and defended in Europe at the time, we believe that we need a deeper and more concrete analysis and a prioritisation. It will therefore require a great deal of dialogue and agreement between the different political groups, as well as a strategy in line with the rest of the European Parliament's groups. That is why our position is going to be at the first moment of abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u150	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillors, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saura, good afternoon, good afternoon. We find this motion on strengthening economic and monetary union and the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union 2021-2027 very interesting. Let me give you some initial consideration. The European Union has many open folders on the table to which much attention needs to be paid. Strengthening the functioning of monetary union, immigration and asylum policy, how the gaps that will leave the United Kingdom will be filled, but also how the European Union will face a new stage that is approaching with interest rates and oil rising stubbornly. It generally gives the impression that there is a situation of disconcertingness and lack of leadership in the European Union that takes us away from the ideals of the founding fathers. We must recover the European Social Agenda and bring political decisions closer to the citizens. Citizens need to identify themselves in the European project and renew confidence. We must move from the great declarations of intent to the facts, and that is why a European social pact is needed to boost economic growth and the creation of decent and stable jobs, to collect the rights and aspirations of the citizens and to compromise a fair distribution of the benefits of economic growth, but with concrete expression in the proposals, because of this the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, in which there are many great declarations that will hardly be put into practice in this way. It is not the lack of leadership; I am convinced that Schuman, Adenauer, Monnet and De Gasperi knew the famous Zweig conference, Europe's moral detoxification. Call me ignorant, but I do not see on the horizon any leadership of this stalemate, although in these days it is necessary to make exception and tribute to President Mattarella, let alone an intellectual of that lucidity thinking Europe in our times. The frustration generated by the crisis has polluted politics, with a devastating effect on social democracy and a frank disconcertingness in what, if not in how, among the supporters of the social market economy or what is left of it, and so does liberal selfishness, and also by the concept of the European Union. The final outcome of the Brexit will open the door to a reformulation of the European Union. Although Brexit is not desirable for the European project, it should be seen as an opportunity to clarify the European Union's re-founding project, as regards its structure and aims. And here we Catalans are also very attentive, because our economy, in full transformation, not only, but also because of its Fainé decree, will be more exposed to the challenges and new opportunities of the globalized and digitized economy. This pending reformulation will be taken if it does not have as one of its main axes the plurinational realities of many of its Member States, and it definitively burys centralist and Jacobin conceptions. With regard to the motion some considerations. It is generally a document that is very much in line with the Commission's proposals. We are talking about completing the banking union, the capital market union, to prevent the contagion of the banking sector. We agree that these two major projects must be completed. However, one key issue is to analyse the treatment of sovereign debt assets in bank balances. Although we do not support the fact that sovereign bond solvency differs in EMU, we do believe that it should be monitored and limited if there is a build-up of public debt in bank balances, and find mechanisms to encourage the financing of the productive economy and discourage the unproductive. It is very strange to us, speaking of banking union, not to find the impetus for mechanisms to guarantee citizens' rights. The crisis experienced in recent years, the damage caused in the form of evictions, people who have lost their life savings, jobs lost from situations of abuse and domination by banking institutions must not be repeated in any way, and this must be ensured structurally. Also, situations of oligopolistic dominance such as those currently suffering from the Spanish financial market should be avoided for, among other reasons, being completely endogenous. What do you propose, Mr. Saura? Mr Saura, you win - I feel seconds - the motion of censure on Friday, incorporate these postulates into your ministries, and send your ministers to the summit to influence the change of the agenda, and we will applaud and support so much desideratum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u152	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u153	Madam President, it is certainly neither the time nor the best day to discuss these issues. There is a sense of end of party, end of stage, because it would seem that the legislature is at least formally ending. But the debate is worth it in my opinion. Not long ago, before Ulrich Beck, who had written a magnificent book called German Europe, spoke of zombie ideas. What are zombie ideas? Zombie ideas are those ideas that, almost always the result of a crisis, cease to connect with reality and with life. The ideas continue to float, but they no longer say anything, they are no longer able to say anything, nor to speak of anything, nor have content of anything. This debate, the European debate in general, sounds to me like zombie ideas. Since 2008, we have hardly been at the bottom of the debate. We continue to think with categories prior to 2008, and we are not able to get into the real debate. What are we proposing for Mr. Saura? We are being offered a diagnosis of Europe from an analysis that has a central idea: that the euro is poorly designed and that it needs to be completed. From there it is completed or attempted to be completed. So, how do you try to complete it? Simply in a way: adding to it - let us say so - forms of state, adding to it parastatal or suprastatal reality to give content to a currency that is not only ill-designed, but is not able to unite Europeans and that is dividing us in a serious way. They have recently said this in a document that came out of the Elcano Foundation, where there are prestigious socialist leaders signing. Where are we? The underlying problem that I think is. It is not a problem of design, but of the essence of the project. [[Rumors]] When Germany accepts the euro and the euro currency it imposes a system around the euro, which is the Bundesbank and which is the German currency. The euro is the framework, and from there imposing its own economic, political and even moral criteria. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u154	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u155	From that perspective, what is the central idea that Germany imposes? The central idea that Germany imposes is also very simple; simple and clear, above all clear. What is needed to make progress in the European currency and in European integration is to remove the economy, economic policy, from the political agenda and from popular sovereignty. From there there will only be an economic policy, which is the economic policy that marks Germany. And not only that, but we are faced with a state, such as the German state, which has made social dumping and a mercantilist strategy the centre of its economic activity; mercantilistism, neomercantilism, and something more serious, social dumping, which ends up aggravating all the problems between the centre and the periphery of Europe. I'm finishing up because I don't have much more time left, but I do want to say one important thing. Today's scandal is Mr Oettinger, the Commissioner for Budgets of the European Union. Mr Oettinger has drawn the conclusion of what the colleague liked so much about Mr Mattarella, who was very simple. The conclusion he draws is this: Italians have to learn from the market that you can't vote for anything. What Oettinger says is: the market is going to teach Italians how to vote, because certain things cannot be voted for in the European Union. That is the fundamental problem that we are living in Europe; a radical opposition between the market and democracy, between the market and society, and a progressive liquidation of social rights, of real freedoms, and a deep political crisis. This European Union is a perfect machine to build extreme right-wings, to build extreme right-wings, to limit our freedoms; and it is above all a perfect machine to ruin what has cost us so many years, which is just something more than unity, which is an alternative life project. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again debating an initiative today - and I say again because it is a short and sticky one - which was debated two weeks ago in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and which in that case did not prosper. This, Mr Saura, with all due respect to the world, gives an idea of the proposed shortage of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is seen in the need to repeat initiatives. It is an initiative that, as I have already described - and I say it again - is a letter to the Magi. Anyone who knows the functioning of Europe, the composition of the majority and the need for unanimity would realize that the approaches you have made could hardly be advanced. Yeah, I want to make a stop, because what's changed today? The Citizens' Group supported him at large the other day, and today he has tabled amendments - typical of Citizens, one day one thing and another day - but, yes, Mr Roldán has not been explained a second. Today the Citizens' Party has shown that Europe cares absolutely nothing. He's asked for early elections; that's what we're up to. Of course, the question I ask myself is this. In Catalonia you have already had early elections and a majority, and what has served you that majority if you have not even had the courage to present your candidate? What was the use of that majority, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] Mr Saura, the debate is repeated. You come to the gallery with the skill that characterizes you, but I give advice to the PSOE: if you want to negotiate or dialogue, I don't know if Mr.Saura is the most suitable for it. It calls for a great consensus in the Congress of Deputies for Europe. I was taught that talking is talking, exchanging ideas and reaching agreements, and you, in order to reach an agreement, to dialogue, begin by saying - as you did the other day - that the President of the Government of Spain is not and is not expected, that Rajoy is doing nothing - today you have said that he is missing or resigned - and you end up insulting the minister by telling him that he is a coward, in political terms. Believe me, it's complicated to reach an agreement with you on something; with that language, it's quite complicated for me. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you something. If the Minister of Economics seems to you to be a political coward, what did Mr Zapatero seem to you when he left us without even a budget in 2011? What did you think? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] It repeats the argument: the Spanish position is unambitious and unEuropean; and I will repeat it again: there is an agenda. As much as you strive to tell the contrary, there is an agenda. The Spanish Government has adhered to this agenda and has put forward a proposal that has been very well received. The minister said so, but you only have to read the international newspapers to know that we have adhered to what President Tusk asked for, and Spain, in that banking union, which is what we are going to talk about, proposes to complement the union of markets and capital, to create a single deposit guarantee fund with a date of entry into force and a common support mechanism ensuring sufficient resources for the Single Resolution Fund; and to provide stabilizers, we propose an insurance mechanism based on a Member State fund, as well as that the EIB - the minister has already said - provides resources to maintain investments. We agree on one of the issues that it raises, but this is not the time. This is a letter to the Magi; Europe is built step by step and not with demagogy and coming to this rostrum to deceive the citizens. I'm going to give you two thoughts before the Madam President draws my attention. You have again made the same mistakes as in the previous debate. You just said that the risk premium has moved. Do you really believe that it is for this government, or does it not give you the impression that suddenly, in the face of a possible motion of censure, the markets have been reminded of the 40 billion deficits of 2008, the 106 billion deficits of 2009, the 96 billion deficits of 2010, the 90 billion deficits of 2011, the 100 billion invoices in crates or the more than 5 million unemployed? Do you really think that is not what has really come to mind in the markets in Europe? [[Applauds]] The last big argument you make is that we have no specific weight in Europe. There is something in Europe that is very clear, just read the hemerotheque. They know who has rescued this country from the crisis; its name is Mariano Rajoy, who has led the government. [[Applauds]] They know who stopped the rescue; his name is Mariano Rajoy. You know, ladies and gentlemen, who has faced the Catalan challenge; his name is Mariano Rajoy. And you know who has been able, with a hundred and thirty-seven Members, to re-adopt a budget that is good for Spain and that is good for Europe. That is why in Europe, Your Honor, it gives me the feeling that, as much as you strive to change history, they prefer Mariano Rajoy much more than one Sanchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u158	I ask Mr Saura García whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u159	We have put forward a compromise and I believe that it has been passed on to different groups to be evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u160	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. The vote will begin. I should like to inform you that there will be an explanation of vote on one of the points. We vote, first, on the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on unemployment protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 4 telematics votes, 340; 166 plus 3 telematics votes, 169; 131 plus 1 telematics vote, 132; abstentions, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u162	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which amended the text of the law governing local affairs, adopted by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March 2004 and other rules of procedure. [[File number 122/000196]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u163	We now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group amending the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, and other tax rules. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 234 plus 2 telematics votes, 236; against, 34; abstentions, 68 plus 2 telematics votes, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u164	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u165	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the integral rescue of the Public Service. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea y Vasco [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour 203 against 133.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u166	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON A SPECIFIC PROGRAMME FOR THE IMPROVEMENT AND PROMOTION OF UNIVERSITY INVESTIGATIVE AND DEPARTMENTAL PERSONAL. [[PDI]] [[File number 162/000594]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u167	We are now voting for the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal for a specific programme for the improvement and promotion of teaching staff and university researchers. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 199 against, 1 abstention, 136.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u168	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u169	We shall continue with the votes on the motions. Motion by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, on the position of the Government with regard to the pending transfers in the field of social security concerning the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State and the management of the economic system of social security. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 89 against, 245 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u170	It's rejected. - THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO PALIAR [[EAJ-PNV]] THE CONCERNING SITUATION OF THE INCREASE IN THE MENA NUMBER [[UNaccompanied FOREIGN LEADERS]] [[File number 173/000091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u171	Motion now following urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, on the measures to be taken to alleviate the worrying situation resulting from the increase in the number of unaccompanied foreign minors. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, Citizens, Basque and Mixed. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 334 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u172	It's approved. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations may, in common, on the situation of blockage in the post market of agreements on the report of the subcommission of the state pact against gender violence, as well as on the development and implementation of public policies of equality. [[File number 173/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u173	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the situation of blockade in the implementation of the agreements of the report of the subcommission of the State Pact against Gender Violence, as well as in the development and implementation of public policies of equality. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 167 against, 133 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u174	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SPANISH POSITION ON THE STRENGTHENING OF THE ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION AND THE NEW MULTURAL FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK OF THE EU 2021-2027. [[File number 173/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u175	We are now voting on the motion for an urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the Spanish position on strengthening economic and monetary union and the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union 2021-2027. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 130 against, 135 abstentions, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u176	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u177	The proposal of the Committee on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility to set up a subcommittee to draw up a report on mobility in our country is now put to the vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 337 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 140 plus 1 telematics vote, 141; against, 160; abstentions, 37 plus 3 telematics votes, 40.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u178	The proposal to set up the subcommission was rejected. Several groups have asked for an explanation of vote under Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure. I will ask your ladies and gentlemen to make the speeches from the seats. There shall be a vote after that. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u179	Thank you, Madam President. It was risky to bring to this plenary a proposal which in the Commission had the vote of a single party. It was risky and it seems to me that in the Commission I have already made it clear what my vote was. Regrettably, we have had to vote that no, and this leads us to see this work darkened in a Commission where we do things almost unanimously. I hope that this is only a small problem and that, starting tomorrow, this Commission will continue to work with the same perspectives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u180	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rivera Andrés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Today the debate was opened in this plenary session on the need for a mobility subcommittee, which is very important for our country, but it is a shame because I do not know what sense it has to create something new when this legislature is exhausted. [[Rumors.-Protests]] It is clear that transport and mobility are changing radically in Spain and also in the world and it is clear that global awareness and, of course, a change is needed...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u182	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u183	...of paradigm. But, of course, there is an opportunity for innovation. In December 2017, the Council of Europe contemplated this. In Spain we had a unique opportunity for not having ratified the 1968 Vienna Convention, as that meant that the Trafficking Act could be changed without international legal restrictions, unlike in the rest of Europe. We're the first in the exit box. Sorry, we were, before the PP dynamite this legislature. [[Protests]] We had a golden opportunity in innovation and the future, and what has the government done in the meantime? Nothing, empty road safety plans that increase road deaths and create empty subcommissions as well, like this one. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u184	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u185	Citizens have already asked the Government to act to reduce victims of traffic accidents using digitization. They haven't done anything. As an example, the Invive motorcycles, which is there, in a drawer. We have also called for the development of the new road safety and sustainable mobility law at once, but, as I said earlier, the People's Party is now diving into the larger seas of corruption. [[Rumors]] You, gentlemen of the People's Party, know as I do that the best way out of this situation for all is to call elections. [[Protests]] The People's Party and its inaction are slowing down innovation and systematically slowing down the future.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u186	One second, Your Honor. You don't have the floor, Mrs Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. I beg your silence. And Mrs Rivera is reminded that she is in explanation of vote. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u187	Well, I'll go on with the explanation. We shall abstain from this non-legislative proposal because we consider mobility to be very important and strategic, as is the Climate Change Act. I had always thought that this government was afraid of innovation and today I realized that this government no longer has a future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u188	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Luis Bail has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u189	Thank you very much, President. Our group has voted against the creation of this subcommittee because it is against the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure to justify this subcommittee. We did not allow civil society to appear in the Commission, and it seems absurd to us that the interpretation of Article 44.4, on which the committees through the President of Congress will be able to seek - point 4 - the appearance of other persons competent in this field in order to inform and advise the Commission, and which is being carried out in almost all, not to say in virtually all the committees of this House, could not be carried out in the Commission on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility. This Commission is fully capable and competent to carry out these civil society appearances, and we were not being allowed to do so. The solution given by the only party that voted in favour of this subcommission in the Road Safety Commission interpreted that we had to make these appearances in a subcommission responsible for this purpose. The motivations of this subcommission are also about four-wheeled vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles, and responsibility is charged individually. We are betting on an approach to mobility as a citizen right; an approach to mobility as well as to civil society, and for that we have to give a voice to civil society. We bet to use this Commission, which is underutilized, to reach consensus on mobility in the impact of the law that has to come and that has been promising the People's Party since 2016, which is the law on road safety and sustainable mobility. Until we can do that, we will continue to claim this and oppose the loss of life, to give us other channels that do not lead anywhere and that in order not to solve anything it proposes to create a subcommission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u190	For the Socialist Group, Mr Bellido Acevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. The question we have to ask ourselves is why this subcommission proposal has come here. A subcommission proposal that was only supported and promoted by a group, by the People's Party. Does sustainable mobility not matter to the rest of the parliamentary groups? Quite the opposite. We are the rest of the parliamentary groups who in the Commission have promoted non-legislative proposals and requests and requests for appearances to discuss this issue. The fact is that road safety and sustainable mobility are closely linked. But we think that within the Committee on Mobility - mobility which must of course be sustainable but also safe and healthy - this kind of work could be done perfectly. That's why we're going to vote against it. That is why it would make no sense for the Committee on Finance and the Civil Service to promote the creation of a public service subcommittee because this could not be discussed in the Committee on Education and Sport; or for the Committee on Education and Sport to be unable to attend sports and a subcommittee to be set up. Would it make any sense for us to present here today, from the Committee on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility, the road safety subcommittee? No, no, In the same way, it makes no sense for us to make it sustainable. We believe that the Commission was not the problem and we believe that the creation of the subcommittee is not the solution, except that what is intended is something else, which is to block other more important and more interesting subcommittees. We care about sustainable mobility, we believe that we must address the challenges our country faces in terms of sustainable mobility, but it must be done in the Commission that was created for this purpose, which is that of Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u192	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gamazo Micó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u193	Thank you, Madam President. The request for the creation of this subcommission demonstrates the firm commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party to sustainable mobility and its development in our country, an issue which, in principle, concerns only the People's Party because those who voted against it are concerned, no matter how much they have said otherwise, very little. The proposal comes here, Mr Bellido, because you and the Confederal Group of the European People's Party abstained in the Commission. If they had had the gallantness to vote against it at that time, that subcommission would not have arrived here in the Chamber. [[Applause.- Various Members: Good!]] The content of the Commission on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility, to which it has also referred, is a matter for everyone. We would discuss and deal with more proposals on sustainable mobility if they used the Commission on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility as such and did not use it as a subcommission of Promotion to carry out roundabouts or traffic lights in all the municipalities of Spain. That's the reality. We understood that the general interest forced this House to deepen with rigour, seriousness and first-hand knowledge the concerns of the sector and those affected by the issue of mobility in order to know the negative effects of emissions, environmental conservation and to raise everyone's awareness of the need to promote sustainable mobility measures. We believe that this matter required rigorously, seriously, solvently and thoroughly study, listening to all those involved, among other issues, because in our country the vehicle industry accounts for 10% of gross domestic product, because in Spain we have seventeen car factories and because any disruptive transformation could lead to the deterioration of the working wage mass and the labour and social rights of the people. They have voted against the Commission and let it be seen from that subcommission because they have other intentions and interests; because this subcommission does not try to wear down the Government of the People's Party or the People's Party and so they have voted against it; because their only interest is to discredit everything that the People's Party represents, all of us who are part of the People's Party, the millions of voters and the hundreds and thousands of activists of this party. Ladies and gentlemen, we prioritize the general interest and the electoral interest; we look at the interest of people and the surveys that are published day by day, because they are ensimised in them, they are so concerned about them and live for them that they may pass as milk, that they have to say goodbye to their pig, their calf, their eggs, their chicken, goodbye to the Moncloa. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u195	Finally, a vote was taken on the request of the Defence Commission to grant an extension of the deadline granted to the subcommittees for the study of the professional regime of the military troops and navy of the Armed Forces formed within the Defence Commission until 30/09/2018 for the completion of their work. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 331 against, 2 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-29-CD180529.u196	It's approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and thirty minutes of the night.
