ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, which appears on the agenda as item 24, is first discussed in the section on interrogations. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u2	We begin the session with the item on the consideration of proposals for legislation, in particular the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, of political control of the General Courts of acts and omissions of the Government and the Government in office. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Basque Parliamentary Group brings to this plenary the amendment of the Government Act and the Act on the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State, so that, respectively, these laws clearly and expressly reflect that all acts and omissions of the Government, even of which it is in office, are subject to the control of the General Courts. I take advantage of the start of this intervention and as a parenthesis to point out that the proposal contains a material error, since the references made to article 26 must be understood as referring to article 29 of the Government Act. It is also proposed, as I said, that this obligation to submit to the control of the Courts rests with the rest of the authorities and senior officials of the General Administration of the State, without prejudice to the fact that the Government is in office, which may seem to be a peregrulated, as colloquially stated, since the General Administration of the State does not depend on the confidence of the House. But this clarification is needed in order to get out of the way of the Government's thesis, which he argued that while his senior officials are in office, they cannot be subject to the control initiatives of these Chambers. As you will recall, ladies and gentlemen, this House has raised a conflict of powers with the Government to declare that when it is in office it is also subject to the control provided for in Article 66 of the Constitution, which does not prevent this clear and explicit criterion in the legal system from being developed in the exercise of the legislative initiative through the proposed amendments. For our part, we have no doubt - as we will then argue - that the control powers of the Chambers over the Government are not affected because the Government is in decline, but we cannot fail to say this in each and every one of the relevant rules, for the Government, in breach of the principle of constitutional loyalty, has sought support, twisting the legal system, in that lack of express duty. There is also a lack of concreteness in the same Constitution as to what the powers and limitations of the Government in office should be and which the ordinary legislator has carried out in the Government Act. It is now necessary, therefore, for the Government Act to be concrete and explicit, as was done with the powers and limitations of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, that its acts and omissions are also subject to the control of these Chambers, the General Courts. An obligation which, on the other hand, is undoubtedly attached to the same Constitution and which must be read without any exegetical need, however simple it may be, in the Law of the Government, since this lack of reference expresses the controls to which it must be subjected when it is in office has been exploited by an insumious Government to escape the control of the General Courts for three hundred and fourteen days, and this situation, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be repeated in the future. The Government in office must have an express mandate in the Government Act, without doubt, for its obligation to submit to the control of the Chambers. This is an obligation arising from the democratic legitimacy and representative character of the General Courts and not from the existence of a relationship of trust, as the Government maintains. In our democratic State, all the powers emanate from the people - article 1 of the Constitution - and this is represented by the General Courts, which exercise the legislative power of the State, approve their budgets and control the action of the Government - article 66. This function of control of the Government's action is so, regardless of whether the Government is a quitter or in full after a confidence given, by virtue of the necessary and binding balance and balance between the various powers of the State and by virtue of the same basis as the whole Constitution, since Article 1 of the Constitution establishes a democratic State, representative of popular sovereignty through the Courts, which, by virtue of that same representative function, acquires all its constitutional functions, without being spoiled those relating to the control of the Government because the latter is in office, without prejudice - of course and of course - that if the latter has diminished its functions because of its cessation the control must be extended to those functions which remain with the Government after having ceased on any of the grounds referred to in Article 101 of the Constitution. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, the power of control of the Courts over the Government referred to in article 66 is not identified, as the Government claims in a crooked manner, with the control that this House - not the Senate - could develop, article 108, and from which it could derive responsibility of the Government for its political management, consisting of the cessation of its Government and its President, as reflected in article 101, consequence that, of course, it can occur only after the inauguration of the President of the Government, an investiture in which democratic legitimacy extends from Congress to the Executive, so that, as a corollary, the latter has responsibility before whom he has been granted confidence if he is defrauded and decides to withdraw it with a motion of censure or to ratify it after the presentation of a motion of confidence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Courts, once constituted, exercise in full all their powers, including those of control over the action of the Government and without being able to demand political responsibility through a sanction control that involves loss or ratification of trust or project control beyond the powers that the Government in office is recognized by the Government Act. But what is unacceptable is the retort to the absurdity of the Government to circumvent the powers of these Courts which intended to subject it to so-called control by means of interpellations and motions, questions, appearances or requests for information, arguing that the political legitimacy of the Courts did not correspond to that of the Government, which came from an investiture granted by a previous parliamentary majority that expired after the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the fact that in a system of parliamentary government the link between the Government in office and the Chambers is institutional and not personal between those who voted for the President and the President, the power of control of the Chambers, covered by Article 66 of the Constitution, the so-called control, as we have stated, does not need to be vested, but simply the existence of the Chambers once they have been constituted, if they have been dissolved, or of the Permanent Chamber for the situations of interinity and does not imply that the division of powers is hibernate, nor that the Courts remain in suspense, nor that the Government ceases to exist. The Government takes office as a result of the principles of responsibility and continuity until the next one is taken over and the Chambers control its activity within the scope of the powers that the Government ceases to have at its disposal during this interim period. Ladies and gentlemen, under a democratic regime there can be no power without control or a system of parliamentary government in which the Executive is free from the control of the Chambers. The contrary would be to accept that a constitutional body can act without counterweight or that during the period of government in office there is no division of powers, without the Parliament being able to ascertain that it fulfils its functions without exceeding or leaving it alone and without, where appropriate, being able to prevent the outgoing Government from being projected in the future and disrupting the orientation and action of the imminent government team. Government action in a democratic regime is under constant control so that public opinion can visualize it, and this is precisely what gives democratic legitimacy to government action, even when it is in office. Even in states of alarm, exception and siege, which could be described as extreme legal situations, the same Constitution in its article 116 does not exclude the responsibility of the Government and its control, with far fewer reasons it can be excluded in situations of constitutional normality that occur in parliamentary systems of government when it is necessary to renew the Government after its cessation. I'm finishing up. The reasons for the constitutional legality set out above; the political reasons for the serious democratic anomaly of an unchecked Government; the reasons for the legal security which they repugnant to the existence of empty spaces within article 66 of the Constitution; the reasons for avoiding the Government's self-assignment of the control function of the Chambers by indicating to them when, how and where, in plenary or the Commission, such a check is carried out, articulating appearances at the request and denying the required controls, i.e. an à la carte check; reasons for institutional loyalty; reasons of common sense and also reasons of the jus officium which we have as representatives of popular sovereignty demand, in the opinion of this parliamentary group, that the initiative presented be taken into account, without prejudice to the improvements which are considered appropriate in the process of amendments. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u4	Thank you very much. In the course of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative of the Basque Group affects the question already raised during the failed XI Legislature on whether or not the Government of the nation is obliged to submit to parliamentary control while it is in office, that is, at the stage between the holding of general elections and the inauguration of a new president. As Mr. Legarda recalled, in the months of 2016, in which that situation, unprecedented in the history of Spain, was prolonged, there was a conflict of powers between the legislature and the executive, with legal reports taken up respectively by the bureaus of Congress and the Senate, which were opposed by those of the government in office with the argument that he should only respond, if necessary, to the representation of the people who invested him. Given the disparity in legal opinions, we consider it necessary that the Constitutional Court's unappealable interpretation be provided with definitive clarification in the face of an assumption that had never been made in the thirty-eight years of democratic period and that it may also have extrapolable derivatives in the autonomous communities, not so in the municipalities, where it is known that, in the absence of agreement to elect a mayor by absolute majority, it automatically governs the candidate on the most voted list in the municipal elections. At the Forum, it seems to us that this is a good formula to explore in order to avoid in the future the risks of repetition of another political paralysis such as that which occurred in almost the whole of 2016 and which was the result of the irresponsible blockade of the practice of investing the candidate of the party most voted by the Spaniards, as had happened in all previous legislatures, and all this to search for very forced parliamentary arithmetic majorities to try to invest a loser candidate by supporting, in addition, their own Copernican turns on what had been committed in the campaign. I shall abstain in the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u6	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. This proposal has so much, so much common sense that I think we should not be even discussing it. See if it has common sense that the People's Party has not gone out to use the turn against, which says a lot that this falls from the sky of as much common sense as it has. And it has so much common sense that the counsel's report says so, that the interpretation of the Constitution is also so. I already know that when one governs would prefer to have no control, to do what one wants and no one to control it, but fortunately we are in a democracy and democracies are just for that, so that those of us here control those who are there. That's the way it is and it doesn't have a leaf. Should the Government in office be controlled? Of course, when he is in office, it is precisely when we have to control him most because he has lost a part of his legitimacy and we are just the ones who are here, elected in the new House, who have the new legitimacy of the citizens. So, of course, we have to control the government, that's in the drawer, and if we can't control the government, a part of democracy is going down the drain. It is therefore legitimate for the Government to have to be controlled, that is to say, up to a sixth grader. Moreover, if one government makes decisions, the others will have to control it, or does it have to make decisions and the others just have to applaud? Of course we have to control and say whether we agree or not; ultimately, control the government. That is precisely the essence of democracy. And the limitations of the law are precisely those of that Government which has somehow lost legitimacy. The limitations can never, ever be had by the new House, which is fully legitimized by the recent elections that have brought them here. Therefore, common sense or, as you would say, 'of drawer' that this has to be approved. And I hope that the People's Party will finally have common sense to approve this proposal as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u8	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u9	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I say that we are going to support this initiative by the Basque Parliamentary Group basically for two reasons which we believe are of common sense. [[EAJ-PNV]] The first is that if when a Government is in full office it must be subject to the control of this House in its full functions, when a Government has the limited functions it must be subject to the control of this House in its functions, in this case, during this limited period. What cannot happen is that in three hundred days a Government does not appear here to explain what it is doing. And the second is that we are in complete disagreement with the Government's reading of the normative facts that allowed it, in its opinion, not to appear in this House, as I have said, for more than three hundred days. That is why we consider this initiative to be timely, which favours that, in the near future, when the Government is in a situation similar to that which we have left behind, it will not be able to take advantage of any ambiguity in order not to appear in this House and to explain its political actions. That is why, as I said, we are going to support this initiative of the Basque Parliamentary Group from the Democratic Party. [[EAJ-PNV]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u10	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja i Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the failed parliamentary term of 2016 the People's Party government sought to circumvent parliamentary control of the Chambers on the grounds that as a government in office it should not be subject to control. The argument was only based on the fact that there was no relationship of trust with the new Chambers as it had not been invested by the President. This came to the Constitutional Court, which did not resolve the problem and instead agreed to estimate a request from the Government that in practice allows the incumbent Executive to continue to evade parliamentary control. It is clear that the government, as active as it is, does not cease to govern and therefore even directs the General Administration of the State, goes to European summits and makes decisions, and also makes mistakes. For example, remember that decisions were then taken as far-reaching as the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the twelve hydrological plans for the second planning cycle 2015-2020, an essential element of debate in which we are still working and debating today. If a Government in full office should be subject to the control of the General Courts for its actions by responding to the questions of the opposition, a Government in office, which has limited its actions, should be more and better accountable to the Chambers for its actions. Indeed, it is a matter of good practice and ultimately of democratic quality in one of the main functions of the Courts. In fact, this GNP, as other colleagues have pointed out, should not have been necessary. In a consolidated democracy no government denies parliamentary control, it is one of the foundations of democracy. However, we already know how the People's Party acts: it twists the interpretation of the law for particular purposes and not precisely for the public interest. We have recently been accused of independence to force the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia for particular purposes. The most curious thing is that they are words that come from real professionals capable of twisting the law to unsuspected limits. I recognize that before these true experts one feels small. But not only do they twist it, but, as we have seen with the application of Article 155 in Catalonia, they are capable of overcoming even the democratic framework of the rule of law itself. In fact, every day the international community is more surprised by the degree of cynicism shown by the Government of the State in the face of such democratic anomalies. For all this, but above all for democratic coherence, we support this PL presented by the Basque Nationalist Party and we hope that when it is approved it will help to prevent any government from acting in the way the People's Party did and from circumventing parliamentary control in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u12	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u13	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There were three hundred and sixteen days in which Spain had a government in office; still far from the record that Belgium established in five hundred and forty-one days, but three hundred and sixteen is undoubtedly an important figure, it is almost a year. By making a comparison, it is more than three times the period of courtesy given to a new Government before assessing and criticizing its first actions. There were three hundred and sixteen days without parliamentary control of his activity. The purpose of this bill is to clarify that the Government, while in office, will have to submit to the political control of the General Courts. In addition, in the case of senior officials of the General Administration of the State, this duty is envisaged as a principle whose non-observance could lead to sanctions. It seeks to respond to the Government's approach following the renewal of the Chambers in the XI Legislature so as not to submit to the control of the Courts established in that infamous note on the control of the Government in office drawn up by the Directorate-General for Relations with the Courts and summarized in: it is not appropriate because there is no relationship of trust between the Government and the Courts, the ordinary clearance of cases is without political interest, the urgent or general interest proceedings that go beyond that ordinary clearance of cases can only be assessed by the judiciary. What follows is well known to you, ladies and gentlemen: despite the fact that a large majority of this House, with the exception of the People's Group, approved the corresponding conflict of powers, the Government maintained its view and rejected the request of Congress, which led to the decision on 10 May 2016 by the Bureau of the Permanent Deputies to bring the conflict of powers before the Constitutional Court, which is still pending. The arguments gathered there can be maintained to defend and support this proposal of law, without prejudice to the fact that the Constitutional Court ultimately hears the terms of this dispute. First, the role of the Government's control by Parliament is a basic principle of any parliamentary system which is based on the representative character of the Courts and which therefore does not derive from a relationship of trust between the Government and those Courts. Our Constitution clearly states this: the General Courts represent the Spanish people and, as such, control the action of the Government. No nuances or exceptions. This House is clear that it cannot demand political responsibility from a Government in office - it would make no sense to table a motion of censure against a Government in an interim situation - nor can it demand it because of its actions when it was in full power, which would be for the previous courts to do, but for what it did or ceased to do as such a Government in office. We must not forget that, although the Government has limited powers on the basis of this interinity, it remains a Government; it remains a Government and must adopt, especially in situations where interinity can be prolonged, important decisions with political content, decisions which influence criteria of opportunity, decisions which are not purely procedural and which are not fully regulated, decisions which, therefore, are subject only to political control, not merely legal or legal. But it is also that control of the Government transcends the demand for political responsibility. It will sometimes be necessary for the General Courts to require information or to request explanations from the Government for actions or omissions in relation to matters to be dealt with as such Government in office. Consequently, in our democracy we cannot accept the idea of a government without control, even if it is in function, either by logic or by common sense or by constitutional law. Ladies and gentlemen, during almost all of 2016 the government of Mariano Rajoy caused a genuine constitutional anomaly by not subjecting itself to the control of the Courts. A Government in office, a limited Government which, however, dared to act as an interpreter of the Constitution and deprive this House of one of the powers conferred on it by Article 66 of our Magna Charter. An anomaly compounded by the fact that not even officials or senior officials of the General Administration of the State were subjected to this control at the indication of the Government itself, an inadmissible thesis. An Administration must always serve the general interest objectively. An Administration can never be understood as a function. It was the Government that was in that interim situation; neither was the Administration, nor was this House, nor was our General Courts. [[Applauds]] Therefore, our vote will be in favour of this initiative, regardless of whether we can make some technical improvements to its original wording. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u14	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs.Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u15	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this PNV initiative points to the core of what kind of democracy we have and the kind of democracy we want. It is up to us to talk about democratic quality, the model of state and the division of powers. The crisis has served as an excuse to cut the democratic framework. We have seen how democracy has been distorted through constant exceptionality. With the excuse of governability and state agreements, the major democratic model agreements have been systematically violated. The executive has overflowed its powers, gradually flooding the other powers of the state, starting with the judiciary and ending with the legislature. Since the economic model of the PSOE and the PP became unsustainable, the crisis and its severe ravages in the country have been used to systematically break the historical conquests, the thin historical conquests that the mobilizations of the eighties achieved. We talk about social rights and the model of coexistence. This practice continues to be customary in this legislature and doubles the popular will represented here in the General Courts to the will of the Government. The budgetary veto is not the only gesture that has shown that it is actually the government itself that controls the Chambers. In 2016, during Rajoy's government in office, since Moncloa, several appearances of ministers in the Commission have been rejected; appearances convened by Congress and supported by the power balance mechanisms set out in the Constitution itself. How is it possible that a government in office dares to disregard the division of powers? This has been done by twisting the interpretation of the articles governing parliamentary control of the Government, article 108 and article 110 of the Spanish Constitution. When we talk about control of the government, we are talking about the basis of our democratic system, the democratic quality we want for our country. That is why we believe that the division of powers, as the Constitution indicates, must be effective and guaranteed. A government without control is a government that has no political responsibility and therefore is antagonistic of what a government in democracy should represent. This situation is truly troubling. The division of powers is losing the battle and this is part of a much broader process. Taking advantage of the crisis, a democratic drift has been forced to judicialize political problems, politicize justice and drown out the control mechanisms over the executive that are within the jurisdiction of the Courts. The Legislature has been emptied of effective control mechanisms and the Government is not only not effectively controlled by anyone, but it controls the activities of the Chambers by means of budgetary vetoes. This deliberate democratic misadjustment has led to a conflict of competences between the Executive and the Legislature, resolved in the imposition of the Government by judicial means and clashing with article 66 of the Constitution itself. We are living as the Government twists the Constitution to impose itself on the Legislature from a minority, the political space of the opposition, which adds up to much greater social representation than that of the parliamentary group of the Government, is being cornered. Today the executive's muscle is hypertrophied, and it not only violates legislative power but also the same division of powers, which drives us away from a democratic rule of law. The impossibility of exercising political control is probably a symptom of the transitionality with which the Spanish democratic system is being thought. In 2016, the Ministers of Defence and Economy refused to attend the Congress of Deputies and the political irresponsibility of the government in Rajoy's office was crystallized. We need a model of state in which the balance of power is taken seriously and in which politics is replenished with content and significance. I will give a number of examples from which Mariano Rajoy's government took away the powers of the government in office in 2016. These decisions were made: The deportation of refugees to Turkey after this Congress adopted a common position against 16 March 2016. They announced cuts of $2 billion in the 2016 general budgets to cut the public deficit, April 15, 2016. They brought the Law on Effective Equality between Women and Men to the Constitution, April 22, 2016. They brought the tax on empty housing to the Constitution, April 22, 2016. An appeal of unconstitutionality was filed against the Government of Castilla-La Mancha to prevent the thirty-five-hour working day for officials, 3 May 2016. In the context of urgency, decisions were taken by avoiding any political control and outside the legal competence for a government in office and without control. We need a government that is loyal to social needs and not party interests. We need a democracy that respects constitutional values and is bound by its commitments to representation, and that is achieved only with effective control of the Government. The Confederal Group believes that not only do we need to establish effective control rules for the Government in office, but we also need to review all existing mechanisms; review the functionality of GNP, motions and appeals so that they do not remain empty in these content parliamentary acts. As I said earlier, this initiative is fundamental to Spain's democratic quality and we will therefore vote in favour. We believe that it is imperative that we understand that the devirtualization of the executive branch results in institutional abuse, that a plenipotentiary executive suffocates the democratic space and that only with the reduction of excess political testosterone can we rescue democracy within the constitutional framework in which we find ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u16	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u17	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to explain the Socialist Group's affirmative vote; a vote in favour, Mr Legarda, does not prevent us from finding that the fine legislative pen of the PNV has had better evenings. Pending resolution by the Constitutional Court the conflict gives powers raised by this House, it seems reprehensible the opportunity of this initiative. If, as we hope, the Constitutional Court confirms that the General Courts can control a functioning Government, this initiative will no longer make sense, but if, strangely, it says otherwise, too. There will be no lack of powerful reasons for the Constitutional Court to argue the unconstitutionality of the political impunity pursued by Mr Rajoy during the XI Legislature: violation of the democratic principle informing our entire political system, violation of the rights of political participation enshrined in article 23 and violation of the control function attributed by article 66. Mr Rajoy's pilgrim claim to link investment and control in order to sustain his political impunity did not have, nor does it have, constitutional endorsement that is worthy of consideration. Its argumentative destruction is as prolific and exhausting as it is unnecessary. Nothing in the Constitution allows us to deduce a limitation of the powers of the Chambers before a functioning Government. This has been understood since the dawn of our constitutional regime by the first democratic governments and illustrated by parliamentary analysts. As this is certainly an inopportune debate, the Socialist Group likes to take advantage of the opportunities and we think that there is an opportunity here today; an opportunity to face an outstanding challenge, such as the reform of the Government's law to clarify the functions of the outgoing Government. On 2 December 2016, the Socialist Group registered a non-legislative proposal for the reform of such regulation. Article 101 of the Constitution preserves the continuity of the Government, but makes it necessary to differentiate between the fully parliamentary Government and the Government in office. As Professor Reviriego illustrates in his reference work, following the attempts of the UCD in 1980 and the Socialist Party in 1995, it was in 1997 that a patchy regulation of the government in office was lit, which basically reiterates constitutional provisions or explicit rules induced by the constitutional text. However, Act No. 50/1997 provides the Government with an expansive potential for a problem. Article 21(3) is based on indeterminate legal concepts - ordinary public order, duly accredited urgency, expressly accredited general interest -; concepts that involve legal uncertainty and lead to legal and political litigation in the worst imaginable constitutional circumstances, those of the absence of a full government. This dispute can lead, as happened in the XI Legislature, to question the same constitutional structure of separation and balance between the powers of the State. In the absence of constitutional jurisprudence, the Supreme Court has also failed to resolve doubts by prosecuting the concept of'regular dispatch of public affairs'. It was not in vain that his judgement of 20 September 2005 annulled an extradition agreement adopted by a Government in office, while another judgement of 2 December 2005 confirmed the denial of a pardon also adopted by that Government in office. This last sentence demonstrated the absence of a peaceful hermeneutics of the Government, both through the presentation and through the dissenting vote signed respectively at the time by the professors and magistrates Lucas Murillo and Eduardo Espín. But this Supreme Court ruling did intuit the risks that would be confirmed years later. The Supreme Court said: The interregnum of a government in office will be brief only when a motion of censure thrives. On the other hand, in the other scenarios, interinity may extend over several weeks or even several months if the dissolution of the General Courts provided for in article 99.5 of the Constitution takes place. This possibility - said the Supreme - has not been given until now. End of date. Ladies and gentlemen, we were in 2005. And the Supreme Court added: Autonomic experience based on rules very similar to those of article 99 provides examples in which the Government may remain in office for a significant period of time. Undoubtedly, the Supreme Court was thinking of the 2003 'tamayazo', but it still did not have the examples of Andalusia in 2015, Catalonia in 2015 and 2016, nor obviously the XI Legislature. For the Supreme Court, the ordinary public affairs office includes those who do not imply new political orientations or compromise those which must be set up by a new Government, and the Supreme Court does not say anything about the extension of powers arising from urgency or the general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the action of the Government in the contemporary state is compromised by supranational integration and multi-annual policies that force a functioning government to act. Therefore, ensuring their continuity requires that they delineate their functions and specify when the urgency or the general interest is in favour of action other than the ordinary conduct of public affairs, all of which, of course, does not undermine their parliamentary control. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the legislative process of this initiative will give us the opportunity to address the challenges we have set out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u18	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the PNV is presenting us with a bill that is out of date; an initiative that talks about the government in office at the present time and that refers to the current government, although I suppose we all know that this is not the case with the government in full power of Mariano Rajoy. We are simply faced with a mere copy - incorrect copy of Article 26, including Mr Legarda - of an initiative they registered two years ago, which they have not bothered to update or correct and which would not resolve the substantive issue either. The substantive question is whether or to what extent parliamentary control of a functioning Government can be exercised. It is a question that has given rise to a whole conflict between the powers of the State, but you have found a simple way to undo the Gordian knot: let us consecrate our interpretation and settled matter by law. More than simple, simplistic and contradictory, as we shall see. The Government and the People's Parliamentary Group maintain, in fact, that only a Government that has received the confidence of the House responds in solidarity to it. You and the broad chorus of the opposition understand that such an interpretation is a misconception and propose to resolve by majority the conflict of powers, with the express will in your text to deprive the Constitutional Court of knowledge and decision on the conflict. They submit the decision to the majority, rather than subject us all to the decisions of the High Court, which is the provision of the Constitution. This is indeed a misconception, Mr Legarda; a flagrant misconception for all of us here. You claim that control of the government in office is in place and that this has undoubtedly been demonstrated by the lawyers of the House. On the other hand, another contradiction, what you propose is to reflect it clearly and expressly in the Government Act; that is, to reform the law to say what you already say. Much confidence must not be in their position when, once again, as happened with the permanent prison that was reviewed a few months ago, they are not prepared to wait for the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that no legal report, no matter how much you have repeated it here to the point of satiety, states that it is possible to control a functioning government in the way you intend. The House's report was more nuanced; it spoke of extraordinary and singularized control. Other reports simply deny the possibility of control of the Government in office by a House with which there is no relationship of trust. Much of the political forces present here support one thing and the other as appropriate. If the Government is of the People's Party, it has control, if the Government is not of the People's Party, it has no control. I think they would do well to recognize it so clearly and we would save ourselves a lot of debate. There is no precedent, ladies and gentlemen - you have said so too, you have insisted on it - there is no memory in the parliamentary annals, gentlemen of the PSOE, of control sessions to governments in office with the current regulations; there are no such sessions in all of autonomous Spain. Even Mr Legarda, Rule 166 of the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, by the way, excludes the possibility of including any matter on the agenda of the plenary other than the investiture of a new lehendakari; neither control nor other things, anything other than the investiture of a new lehendakari. In short, more than a hundred days was in office the government of Mr Mas in Catalonia and there was no control, appearances or plenary sessions; the ones requested by the People's Group were denied and then you did not maintain that it was a matter of majority but of legality. And because it is a matter of legality, we believe that the law should apply equally to everyone. When the government in office presides over it by Mr Mas, when Mr Rajoy presides over it or when the president presides over it, the law must always be applied equally, because the application of the law in democracy cannot depend on the criterion of the majority. In Andalusia, with a government law virtually based on the national law, the Government was in office for more than eighty days before Susana Díaz obtained the investiture. There was no control, and when requested, the PSOE and Citizens supported a report from the legal services stating on page 6 that there was no sense in the work of political control over a Government limited to the ordinary management of public affairs. That clear approach, according to PSOE and Citizens, did not keep it in the Congress of Deputies two years ago and neither do they keep it today; the same rules, the same political forces, a single difference, the Andalucian government in office was socialist and here it was not, and it seems likely that the next one is not a socialist government either. Conclusion, you do not have a criterion of legality, but a criterion of pure and simple political convenience. Their contradictions in this matter reach today; they reach the Parliament of Andalusia in contrast to the Congress of Deputies in the same week. Because the reform of the Government Law proposed here by the PNV, in the Parliament of Andalusia will be proposed in a few hours by the Parliamentary Group of Podemos, and there, in Andalusia, the Governing Council of Susana Díaz has shown its opinion against the consideration of the proposed law. The agreement of the Governing Council, on page 2, states that Parliament cannot pretend to exercise political control over a government that has already ceased; nor can it allow for discussion or nuance. He cannot pretend, even pretend, to exercise such political control. Therefore, today, the PSOE will vote against Susana Díaz - perhaps that is what it is about, defeating Susana Díaz - against the criteria of Susana Díaz; control of the government in office in Congress and the contrary in a few hours in Andalusia. Citizens will vote with the PNV control of the government in office in Congress and what Susana Díaz says in Seville, which we already know is that control does not proceed. There is no greater inconsistency, but the bad thing is that perhaps this is all the coherence that can be expected from the political opportunism of some, unless Mr Rivera puts order and unifies criteria in this matter between Andalusia and the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] Faced with such incoherence, the People's Group reiterates its position. We believe that a functioning Government is not subject to control, to the political responsibility of a House that has not given it its confidence. Article 101 of the Constitution, through the institution of extension, avoids a vacuum of power, maintains the continuity of institutions, but does not allow the Government in office to act as if it had not ceased. On the contrary, it has limited powers, as provided for in article 21 of the Government Act. It cannot develop policies or make innovative decisions, but can be limited to the ordinary management of public affairs; it cannot do so because it lacks parliamentary confidence, and if its management lacks political relevance, political control also lacks meaning. I'm done. All acts of the Government are in any case subject to judicial control - this is a government without control - and it is not, therefore, a government without control, it is a government limited in its functions, as limited by law is the Parliament, however much born of the will of the people. Congress cannot censor the Government in office or approve budgets, nor can it exercise the regular control that this bill seeks. This is our position, incompatible with others. It seems a task for the Constitutional Court, but you expressly announce your will to resolve the matter by majority avoiding any jurisdictional pronouncement, i.e., along the lines of the Constitution and the principle of legality. Well, if the bill became law, the conflict would not be resolved either. We all know that this would not be the case, that it would only give rise to new remedies, and that it should finally be the Constitutional Court that decides well on the conflict of powers, either on the reform of the Government Act or on both. The People's Group will therefore not support an initiative born of incoherence and opportunism that incurs real constitutional misconceptions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u20	Thank you very much. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS OF THE REPUBLIC AND MIXTO, AMNISTIA AMNISTIA, AMNISTIA, AMNISTIA, AMNISTIA, AMNIFYING ACT 46/1977 OF 15 OCTOBER 1977. [[File number 122/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u21	We now proceed to discuss the proposed law of the Parliamentary Groups of Republican and Mixed Left, amending Act 46/1977 of 15 October 1977 on Amnesty. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u22	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. More than forty years after its adoption, we discussed the reform of the so-called Amnesty Law to amend it, since the signatory groups of this proposal, as well as other groups of similar characteristics for the reform of the Criminal Code, have understood it necessary to reverse the situation of impunity for the crimes committed by Francoism. Through the reform of the Amnesty Act, we intend to prevent its use, as has been the case on several occasions, to prevent the investigation and prosecution of international crimes, while with respect to the Criminal Code we propose the incorporation of the principle of international legality for such crimes. We seek, therefore, to modify the two legal impediments that the State judiciary has been using to reject any complaint about the crimes of Francoism, giving channels of action to all judges so that they can open cases of investigation on such complaints and of passage collaborate with the Argentine justice, because it is the only open cause in the world that investigates the crimes of the dictatorship, not with few obstacles on the Spanish side. Thus, we have recently moved from the joy of admission to the proceedings brought by the Elgeta City Council to a new frustration, mainly of the victims, for their file, as has happened with the lawsuits of Durango, Iruna, Gasteiz or Arrasate. Despite this, more than 40 cities throughout the State have made firm decisions to proceed with the filing of criminal complaints, and we are sure that with the approval of this reform proposal the number would increase. The impediment of the current Amnesty Act has made it clear that investigations in other countries, in application of the so-called principle of universal jurisdiction, are today the only way to combat impunity. In 2004, Spanish legislation incorporated crimes against humanity into the Spanish legal system, and this gives rise to an interested interpretation of the law declaring all crimes committed previously prescribed, but they forget the principle of international legality signed by the Spanish State. The United Nations Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, Pablo de Greiff, has repeatedly pointed this out. The effects of the Amnesty Act are incompatible with the commitments made by Spain, some even prior to its own approval. Pablo de Greiff argues that the Spanish Amnesty Law ended up fulfilling the functions of a final point law that has been used to file virtually all cases that come before the judges, in the face of the practice of other States in which, although not having repealed amnesty laws, the courts have been able to find interpretations that have not prevented the investigation and prosecution of potential perpetrators of human rights violations. The Special Rapporteur has also noted with concern during his visits to the State the refusal by the authorities of the continued nature of enforced disappearance. This is certainly due to another attempt to escape international standards that establish the imprescriptibility of crimes against humanity in relation to cases of enforced disappearance, which begin to count from the moment when such enforced disappearance ceases to exist either when the disappeared person appears lifeless or remains are found. With this panorama this reality is far from being a thing of the past. This one that I show you is the map of the thousands of graves that have been killed by the dictatorship throughout the state; I think it is a more than illustrative image. [[shows a map of Spain]] This reality, which still persists and which has caused forty years later to be thousands of people who continue to demand truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, brings us to today's debate. It is the memorial movement that listened deafly to the calls for oblivion made when the Amnesty Law was passed that constantly confronts us with the false closure of the Francoism, and it is that Law 46/1977 was born of a demand present in the last years of Francoism throughout the territory, a demand for exemption from the actions related to resistance to Francoism by understanding that amnesty should excuse from all criminal responsibility those who were punished or could be punished for having faced and challenged fascism. This was the request for which many people fought and suffered repression and some were even killed in the mobilizations in favor of it. As Congressman Letamendia would say in that debate, amnesty is not a shameful pardon to people who are still considered criminals, but recognition to those who have put all their means into the fight against dictatorship. However, for the surviving Franco regime of 1977 the amnesty responded to the Greek meaning and meaning in the sense of oblivion and forgiveness, and thus introduced two paragraphs in the second article - (e) and (f) - which were not covered in its initial wording but were imposed by the Francoist forces, also granting amnesty to authorities, officials and law enforcement officials who inherited the incipient and weak democracy. The Amnesty Act thus succeeded in being a faithful reflection of the state pact that guaranteed the continuity of Francoism, a state pact that, in addition to calling for oblivion and silence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u23	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u24	Thank you, Madam President. As he said, the law thus succeeded in being a faithful reflection of the pact of State that guaranteed the continuity of Francoism, a pact that, in addition to calling for forgetfulness and silence in relation to the forty years already lived, condemned another forty victims of fascism, victims who demand justice and find no channels to do so. They maintain condemnation of the very concept of universal justice, given that it is impeded and is not committed to changing the laws that prevent the strict application of justice. Even the Historical Memory Act of 2007 does not provide for the possibility of prosecuting acts committed during the Franco dictatorship, although paradoxically it does consider the proceedings of its courts to be illegitimate and repeals its laws. We welcome, and want to say this clearly and loudly, the intentions that other political forces may have that intend to put forward proposals for significant amendments to this law, in which we hope that there will be a demand for responsibility for all the crimes committed during that period and that we will certainly support. We also welcome the actions of the autonomous communities that are passing historical memory laws to dignify the victims of Francoism in each of their territories, because we want to remember that in this Congress only one law of victims has been debated and passed, the Victims of Terrorism Act of 2011. We would like to see with the same care and determination that the law was passed that would also be passed for the hundreds of thousands of victims of Francoism because, despite being demanded insistently by multiple memorialist organizations and even unions and parties, these petitions remain uncoordinated and totally marginalized. It wouldn't be bad at all, actually, a law of victims of Francoist terrorism. For all these reasons, the amendment that we are submitting to you we understand that it is late today, but we also understand that it is the only way to begin to settle the debt with truth and justice with the victims of Francoism, because these are, truth and justice, the only guarantees of non-repetition. For many, amnesty and democratic guarantees never arrived. The Amnesty Act was also an end-point law to guarantee the impunity of Francoism. In a law that should be of recognition and exemption for the fighters against Francoism, a self-amnism for Francoism was evaded. We are in time to alleviate the damage caused to the victims of Francoism by approving this proposal and acting responsibly. Perhaps someone is tempted to divert attention to other issues by taking advantage of the fact that it is my group that raises this debate, even if it comes with the endorsement of other groups. I am referring to the already too obvious reference to what has happened in relation to the conflict in Euskal Herria, whether or not I am talking about the issue that is being dealt with in many orders of the day. I invite you to act responsibly, not to go further in the wounds of the victims of Francoism and to make it clear to the citizenry whether to continue to support the impunity of Francoism or to help change things. I would like to conclude by addressing with all due respect but directly to the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. First, do not look at me when responding to this demand; I was only seven years old when Franco died. Focus your attention on those who fought and suffered Francoism, many of them from their ranks. It is perfectly acceptable that they have doubts about how best to end the impunity of Francoism. This is, of course, part of any parliamentary procedure. We are open to both content and how to do so. On the contrary, arguing legal insecurity or defects in form in order not to allow the reform proposal that we have brought here today to process is to throw more land over the pits. [[Show map of Spain again]] Precisely the reform of the Amnesty Law would allow us to put an end to the most absolute indefensity and insecurity suffered by the victims, who have suffered for forty years, some, as I said before, not even being able to have fired their loved ones. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u25	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not hurt us to recognize here publicly that we take the word full of indignation but more of sadness. We are very sad and moreover, I repeat, we have no pain in recognizing it before you, before thousands of family members of victims, before all the memorialist entities that have been working for decades to break the Spanish model of impunity and to approve Spanish society to those societies that also had the misfortune of suffering fascist, totalitarian and militarist pasts, which with many difficulties have repaired the victims and made the truth prevail and, ultimately, have strengthened democratic values by overcoming trivialization, the damn banalization that exists today in democratic societies in everything that belongs to human rights and crimes against humanity. We are faced with a great missed opportunity; it can never be said that this is the last opportunity, it is true, but they will accept that we are faced with the penultimate opportunity because, after decades of willingness to homologate our society to the rest of societies, we have not succeeded, we have not even managed to make a minimum dent in this wall of shame that means impunity. Because all societies - I say - have metabolized their past, some judging the executioners, others, where it was not possible, creating commissions of truth. All societies have sought ways to resolve, to metabolize their past, thinking of present generations and, above all, thinking of future generations. The Spanish case is an abnormal case, a singular case. In fact, there is no match for this impunity. Why do I say we're facing a missed opportunity? Please note that this bill is signed by parliamentary groups that voted in favour of the Memory Act and parliamentary groups, such as the Catalan Republicans, which we voted against the Memory Act. That is to say, it has been a meeting point for those parliamentary groups which, certainly, in 2007 we had very different choices - all legitimate ones -. In fact, we have always defended the annulment of the Amnesty Law because we understand and continue to understand that to annul is to assume that, aberrantly, the law never existed and, consequently, crimes and criminals must be tried; we have always defended the annulment in front of those parliamentary groups, those political forces that sought the repeal or modification. It is true that we here today, doing an exercise of realism, are signatories of a proposal for a law that does not demand annulment - which is the republican position since always - but that we join this proposal which is a meeting point, which urges to amend the pre-constitutional law of 15 October 1977, the final point law. Modify it, for what? To leave an open door to the twenty-first century, an open door so that those persons or crimes that are considered - then another debate will have to discern which can be considered as such and which non-crimes against humanity. Why do I say this is a missed opportunity that causes us great sadness? Because today in this Parliament there is a possible majority, a majority to assume, to accept this proposal and then this Parliament, which is a mature Parliament, a Parliament of an advanced democratic society, can, in the face of this complex challenge - it is true that the legal technique is possibly very complex, I do not doubt - give itself the opportunity to discuss it. Are we not going to give ourselves a chance to the men and women of the twenty-first century, in the face of this challenge, are we not going to give ourselves the opportunity to discuss it? Because, moreover, everything points out that, unfortunately, Citizens and the People's Party will add an absolute majority - because it can be, because citizenship is free and can vote for Citizens and the People's Party - we will regret it but this is democracy. Imagine a parliamentary majority - which is plausible - of Citizens and People's Party. There will not be a single loophole for us to take up this debate. Therefore, doing an exercise of excessive sincerity, I told you before that we went up outraged, but indignation becomes in deep sadness because we only ask the Socialist Party to accept with its vote this proposal of law which, I repeat, is signed by political forces that did endorse the Law of Memory. We cried and we did not stop crying, but we understand that it should be done because, I repeat, we are being locked in a door that we may not be able to open. We run the risk of what I told you before happening, that the correlation of forces will change within a few months and, if it changes, it is clear that hopelessness will come. I will give you a very simple example that does not have the magnitude of this bill. The last socialist government called on all parliamentary groups to appoint people who were very well prepared to form a committee of experts who, over a few months, worked to conclude what had to be done with the Valley of the Fallen. We thank the Socialist Government for assigning us to the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left the capacity to appoint an expert, since the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero believed that it was good - and we agreed with it - that it be a plural expert committee that would achieve, even, different academic and historiographical views. In the end, the committee concluded its work. Once these jobs were completed, the months, the months, the months went by, and we ended up despairing because we saw that everything pointed out that the Socialist Party might not win the elections, which we did not want because the alternative was the People's Party. We have told the Socialist Government: we approve the conclusions since if we approve them and then you have the bad luck of losing the elections, at least those who come will find some approved conclusions and it will be difficult for them to deny a government action since they will inherit some conclusions from the Spanish Parliament. The Socialist Government considered that it did not have to do so since this meant paying for an election pledge. Unfortunately, they lost the election and won the People's Party. And what has the People's Party done these years? Nothing; on the contrary, it has fostered the culture of memorylessness and the trivialization of the crimes of Francoism. This is going to happen again, or at least there's a risk of it happening. But as long as you rule, there's always a chance that one day we'll agree. For example, we agree to accept this proposal for a law. With you there is hope, with you the victims have some hope, with them, none. That's why we're asking you to work hard. I believe that the political forces of anti-Franco, anti-fascist and democratic tradition would be grateful if you here today would accept this proposal for a law. We would thank you and we would feel very close to you right now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Amnesty Act was debated and adopted in this House in October 1977, the desire and objective of many groups that supported it, including the Basque Parliamentary Group, were - and I quote the words of rapporteur Xabier Arzalluz - that no Basque - and when I say no Basque could have said any other - to remain in prison or exile - and I also quoted the words that Txiki Benegas had said - as a preliminary and inexcusable step towards a democratic situation. That was the illusion and that was the position; it was a duty and an obligation. Today, forty years later, different groups have signed this proposal for a law with the aim of introducing a paragraph in the said law that intends to amend what was not possible in its day, that which, with forty years of retroactivity, seemed easy but not so and, if not, to ask those who fought for the prisons of Francoism to remain empty of prisoners and prisoners who fought against the dictatorship. But what of those who died without seeing freedom? What was it of those who did not see the reparation of their honor and dignity, what was it of those who saw their lives ruined by different thinking and suffered the double punishment of repression and silence, of those who fought to yearn for freedom, to defend human rights and to claim belonging to a people? Ladies and gentlemen, what was also the case with those who committed murders, torture and human rights violations with impunity given to them by the current law and the State? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the State; a dictatorial and Francoist State, but a State. The authorities were from then on, but the state was this. What were the principles of freedom and press, assembly and thought that were ignored and responded with violence and repression? Well, they were left in impunity. The amendment seeks to ensure that the current interpretation of the Amnesty Act does not prevent the investigation, prosecution and prosecution of crimes of genocide, against humanity, war crimes and other serious human rights violations. As stated in the preamble to this proposal for a law, the interpretations made of the Amnesty Act have introduced elements and measures that are not intended solely and exclusively to eliminate the criminal consequences of an act, but are aimed at eliminating its own criminal character, so that, according to that interpretation, it is intended to prevent not only the sanction itself, but also the investigation and prosecution of that act or acts, crimes which, in short, are said not to be prosecuted. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is something we cannot accept. In addition, this proposed amendment, as mentioned above, responds to indications from reports from multiple international agencies, which have severely and repeatedly criticized the fact that Law 46/1977 has become a legal obstacle to the investigation and prosecution of crimes against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship. Many have been the warnings: Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, United Nations Human Rights Committee, United Nations Committee against Torture, United Nations Special Rapporteur for the promotion of truth, justice and reparation. But in this State this series of warnings has been ignored many times, warnings always related to human rights; the last one last week. Because what is legally confronted here is the incompatibility of the effects of the Amnesty Law with the international obligations acquired by the Spanish State - including article 2, paragraph 3, of the International Covenant on Civil Rights -, noting that these commitments were entered into by the Spanish State prior to the adoption of the Amnesty Law, since the law was adopted on 15 October 1977 and the international covenant was ratified by the Spanish State months before, in April 1977. And in this international legislation crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide, as well as human rights violations, are defined and assumed. Thus, this law could not be an obstacle to investigating and accessing human rights violations from the outset of justice. Therefore, with the amendment that we intend to adopt today, justice will not be able to ignore the various complaints of collectives, associations, individuals or unitary complaints about so many crimes committed during forty years of darkness and impunity. From the bombardment, looting and brutal repression of Elgeta, to the murder of Vitoria in 1976, to hundreds of gunmen, mass graves and those left behind. Those of us who are political heirs of repression and exile for standing firm in our convictions, as is my party and even myself personally, grandson and son of reprisal and condemned, are the first to understand this not as revenge or as an adjustment of accounts. No, no, Dignity and the right to reparation are not revenge. Justice is not opening wounds. If it has not been for the nearest human rights violations in the time that are legitimately claimed, it is not for these crimes which, first of all, were never accepted as such and all kinds of obstacles were put in place to be investigated and clarified, as they are in all democratic countries. It cannot be said that the amnesty freed all those who thought differently because the crimes we cite here and wish to be investigated and clarified are not by thinking differently. No, no, they were committed from impunity and power. Ladies and gentlemen, this law which was so important at the time, we all know how and under what conditions it was adopted: under the threat and pressure of those who did not want anything to change, of those who did not want a future in democracy to bring to light the atrocities that were committed. Therefore, the law was made that could be, and the clearest example was four years later, with an attempted coup d'état that right here intended us to return to that dark past time. Could anyone put their hand in the fire that this law was made with complete freedom, without a veiled or direct threat and without suspicion that it could have consequences? Would anyone say that today? Those who are against must therefore say whether these crimes are not a crime or whether they should not be prosecuted or whether this is not the best way to do so or whether they really think that door has already been closed. Let us respond consistently today and do the justice that is possible to us, let us rescue from indifference the dignity and duty to respond to the pending subject of this democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u29	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u30	'We asked for amnesty for all, without excluding the place where no one would have been. I believe that this act, this intervention, this proposal of ours will undoubtedly be the best memory for me that I will keep all my life from this Parliament.' These words were uttered here on October 14, 1977, the day this law was debated that some want to demolish today, and were words uttered by the spokesman of the parliamentary group of the Communist Party and the PSU Don Marcelino Camacho. Of course, I feel much closer to him today than the interested versions that have given some who want to claim as heirs to him and of course I do not believe that for this initiative they are. [[Applauds]] Look, there are leftover legal arguments to reject this initiative, in particular the Constitution itself, which in its article 9.3 establishes the irretroactivity of non-favorable or restrictive provisions on individual rights. But let me not make any legal intervention today, because this proposed law that is brought to us is based on a deep political content, the deep political content that is to demolish one of the bases on which our political transition was built. And that's why I can't accept, I'm not going to accept that in this case there's some sort of safe conduct that the executioners demanded from the victims; much less, it wasn't any of that. It was not a final point law either, as some have wanted to point out here. The objective was very different, and I return again to the words of the spokesman for the Communist Party: I would like to point out that the first proposal presented in this House was made precisely by the parliamentary minority of the Communist Party and the PSUC on 14 July and aimed precisely at this amnesty. And it was not a phenomenon of chance, ladies and gentlemen, it is the result of a coherent and consistent policy that begins with the national reconciliation policy of our party, as early as 1956. How could we reconcile those who had been killing each other if we didn't erase this past once and for all? For us, both as reparation for injustices committed during these forty years of dictatorship, amnesty is a national and democratic policy, the only consequent one to close that past of civil wars and crusades. We want to open the way to peace and freedom. We want to close one stage; we want to open another. We, the Communists, who have so many wounds, who have suffered so much, have buried our dead and our grudges. We are determined to move forward on that path of freedom, on that path of peace and progress. I close quotes. [[Applauds]] These words, to which some want to amend the plan today, in an exercise in rewriting history really incredible, of course we make them ours and believe that they are part of the political acquis of Spanish society from the moment they were pronounced in this House. We are not going to undo that path that so much effort and so much generosity cost us to start. On April 1, 1956, precisely coinciding with the anniversary of the Franco regime, a group of students led by Jorge Semprún wrote the manifesto that would lay the foundations for national reconciliation two decades later. The document, by the Communist Party of Spain and the University Socialist Association, brought together, for the first time in a single subject, the two Spains of the Civil War. He said: We, the children of the victors and the vanquished. We, the children of the victors and the vanquished, in one subject, for the first time. You guys want to split up that guy today and we're not gonna help you. [[Applauds]] The spirit of that generation of 1956 later gathered Marcelino Camacho and other speakers in this very rostrum, and so there could be no better memory for them than that of having made reconciliation between Spaniards possible. That's how they felt forty years ago and, let me tell you, I think that's the feeling of the majority of Spanish society also today, forty years later. [[Applauds]] It is not the feeling of rematch that you want to bring here but that of reconciliation that continues to prevail in the opinion of the Spaniards. This was reflected by the CIS in 2012, when it pointed out that more than 72% of Spaniards believe that the way in which the transition to democracy was carried out is a source of pride. And, look, it's not a long shot that our country's history has been tragic over so many years, and that's why it is not understood that there is today a new left that wants to undo precisely what we did well and that served to unite the Spaniards forty years ago. But amnesty is not amnesia, in any case. The Amnesty Law was not, as some intend to establish, a pact of oblivion; on the contrary, it was precisely, as Professor Santos Juliá has explained, for example, the memory of what one wants to forget. Precisely because they remembered what they wanted to leave behind, the Spaniards then agreed to forgive themselves, absolve each other, for the sake of coexistence and reconciliation. And, yes, we can admit that some made more generosity than others. It can be said that the losers had more generosity than the winners, among other things because it must be remembered that the achievement of this law was a long battle of the left, and very singularly also in the Basque Country, throughout 1977. We must remember, for example, the week of proamnism with tragic consequences in the Basque Country. It was a triumph of the left that Amnesty Law that you in this exercise of historical ukrony want to rewrite. Proof of this is that only the old People's Alliance abstained in its approval. It was also a triumph of Basque nationalism, gentlemen of the PNV, it was a triumph of Basque nationalism that proposed in this House also the Amnesty Law and that you want to demolish today. You quoted a few words from Mr. Xabier Arzalluz, I will quote others from that same day. He said: We want to start a new democratic stage, we do not come with the dagger in our hand or to scratch in the past, we come - he said - in front of the future to build a new country in which it is worth living and in which we can all live. And look, that amnesty also benefited other prisoners, terrorist prisoners of ETA, FRAP, Grapo and Mpaiac. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, many things were forgiven in 1977. And in exchange for that forgiveness we conquered democracy and coexistence. But, look, as the spokesperson for the Bildu group has referred to the victims, I too want to remind the victims. On 7 October 1977 the Council of Ministers approved the draft amnesty law and the following day ETA murdered the president of the deputy of Vizcaya Augusto Unceta and his escorts. That is the payment of the generosity and spirit of reconciliation of ETA and the murderers of the ages. [[Applauds]] This is how they have permanently paid throughout these forty years for the generosity that Spanish democracy had with them at that time. And when you talk about memory and dignity, I also want to talk about memory, dignity and justice for the more than 857 victims, for the 16 000 wounded and for the 42 000 people threatened who, despite this generosity that Spanish democracy had, have had to go through a calvary throughout that dark history. It was worth it. It was worth it, and to a large extent thanks to the left, that today it denies part of its history, and that is why, gentlemen of Podemos, of Esquerra Republicana, of the PNV and of the Mixed Group, who are all signatories of this initiative, even though they have withdrawn their signature today, we all tell you not to count on Citizens to demolish what our predecessors did so well and with so much dignity. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u32	Good afternoon. A fraternal greeting to Ceaqua and to the network of cities against Francoist impunity that are following this Plenary: Coruña, Madrid, Barcelona, Zaragoza and up to forty cities that today are supporting our law. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I intervene here excited and challenged by the learning of a man, Mr Prendes, whom I was lucky to meet in my home, a humble man, a metal worker from Perkins Hispania. He was not a lawyer, he was a great, humble man and a man who had been condemned by the vile Franco regime to twenty years in prison. That man who came up to the rostrum forty-one years ago to defend the Amnesty Law, who died asking for the Amnesty Law to be changed to be able to investigate the crimes of Francoism, was called Marcelino Camacho. [[Applauds]] I met you at my house, Mr. Prendes, Marcelino Camacho. [[Applauds]] That man came up here to ask for three things, by the way, the only spokesman who did it forty-one years ago, and one of them was to ask for political amnesty because our prisons were full of political prisoners and prisoners. But not only political amnesty, but also labor amnesty, Mr Prendes. You know what that is? Hundreds and hundreds of workers fired for thinking differently, for fighting Francoism. That's what Marcelino Camacho was defending. And thirdly - he was the only one who said it - Marcelino Camacho went up to this rostrum - you have forgotten - to defend that the women who had been convicted for committing crimes of women, that is, adultery, would leave the Francoist prisons. [[Applauds]] Sad irony, the Amnesty Law became for Marcelino and for all and all of them a point and end law; it became a shield so that we could not investigate what has happened in our country. That day of joy, as you mentioned, became forty years of sadness, lies and amnesia. Marcelino Camacho never thought that our courts violated article 10 of our Constitution. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that article which says that the laws - also the Amnesty Act - must be interpreted in accordance with the treaties and international agreements signed by our country. [[Applauds]] Yes, Mr. Prendes, that general principle of imprescriptibility of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. This is what has happened in our country. That United Nations declaration on the imprescriptibility, also of war crimes, that violation that our courts are making of the Convention against Torture and Genocide, that violation of the international covenant, as noted in a 2012 Supreme Court ruling that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and so many resolutions of international law, can be violated. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are talking about human rights violations. We have been told that there was a story in our country on two sides, two sides that committed terrible crimes and, as they had both been committed, it was better to forget. We don't think so; it's not better to forget. The most terrible thing about the application of the Amnesty Act is not that it prevents the investigation of the crimes of Francoism, but that it equals the murderers and their victims. He says that the torturer is the same as the tortured, that he tells us that violence and terror are the same as education and culture and tells us that fascism is the same as democracy, and fascism and democracy are not the same. [[Applauds]] Denialists say the executioners are the same as the victims. We know today that no; the victims are up there, defending international legality, and of course you and others are going to prevent this law from coming forward. It is true that fascism shook all of Europe, that dictatorships shook all of Europe; there was no Spanish exception. Do you know what the Spanish exception was? The Spanish exception was impunity. It is logical that all fascist regimes would, of course, try to achieve impunity. The huge difference is that the rest of the countries prevented it by their democratic means; in their parliaments they prevented such barbarity from ever again being committed. [[Applauds]] This anomaly we have in Spain is not possible in Europe. It would be unthinkable in Europe to have a Francisco Franco Foundation that made a daily appeal for Francoism; it would be absolutely unthinkable. Mr. Prendes, there's nothing older than amnesia, nothing older. With this law we believe that the time of truth has come, a new time of truth. We believe that the time has come for a country without fear, a country that rewrites its history, the history of truth. We believe that to pass the page of Francoism it is necessary to have democracy and advance in the investigation of its crimes. Walter Benjamin was talking about empathy with the winners. We believe that we must have empathy with all human beings. We believe that people have to remember and forget things together, but we cannot forget and remember things together if we have the dead in the gutter, if the victims of Francoism have not been able to go through mourning or have been able to rest in peace and serenity. [[Applauds]] They're lying on our streets and this deserves justice. I told them that this law, Mr. Prendes, is not to look at the past. It is not a law, if I may, for my father who suffered from Francoist jails and for his companions and companions, for all of them. It is, if I may, for my daughter Carmela, for Oliveta, for our daughters, so that when they study the history of Spain and study the military uprising they can say with pride: here was my grandfather. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, allow our daughters to rewrite the history of Spain. Never again is an amnesty law that causes amnesia. For our daughters, for all of them, allow the debate of this law. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Villar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1966 Marcos Ana, a communist and poet, had been sentenced to death and suffered long years of imprisonment and torture, but stated that the best way to replicate the Francoist exaltation of the Civil War was to wield the idea of national reconciliation, to demand general amnesty and to impose the total cancellation of the responsibilities assumed in both fields. It wasn't Marcos Ana's insistent voice a voice alone. It is an example of many others who reflected the moral height that had long been installed in the political discourse of the Spanish Republicans. As Santos Juliá has shown in his documentary and exciting book Transition, in the transversality of public and private spaces the great ideas of amnesty and reconciliation of all Spaniards were united. The collective purpose was clear: to establish a democratic system that brought peace and harmony to Spain, definitively closing the Civil War and the two Spains that had so many times frozen the hearts of the Spaniards who came to the world, as Machado regretted and warned. On October 7, 1977 all the groups of the Congress - all - came together to present the proposed amnesty law, except for the People's Alliance, which explained its vote and abstained but did not object. Ladies and gentlemen, read out or, if you have not done so, read the Journal of Sessions held on 14 October that same month. They will find that this law was not a final-point law as they want us to believe certain political groups in their encroachment on history and denouncing the constitutional system of 1978, to which they are ambiguously referring - always pretending to damage it - as the 1978 regime. [[applause]] That law was the result deliberately pursued by democratic courts that picked up the echo of the street. I remember well, like some of your ladies and gentlemen, that demanding and hopeful slogan that I so many times chanted in demonstrations and university meetings: 'Freedom, amnesty, autonomy status!' [[Applauds]] No one can ever make us believe that this law was the result of the imposition of Francoist elites and the weakness of the political opposition of the left; for it was a work of hope for the reconciliation of a people. And don't forget, in the vanguard were political forces of the left, especially communists and socialists. In these seats, ladies and gentlemen, people who suffered and were imprisoned, exile and other kinds of reprisals sat down for this debate. Socialists such as Alfonso Fernández Torres, Carmen García Bloise, Eduardo López Albizu, Gregorio Peces-Barba, Nicolás Redondo, Enrique Tierno; or communists, as you have remembered here, such as Marcelino Camacho, Rafael Alberti, Pilar Bravo, Santiago Carrillo, Dolores Ibarruri or Josep Solé i Barberà; and could mention more names. Can you really think, those who repeatedly deny the Amnesty Law, that we are going to believe that these people, some of whom participated in the Commission that drafted the law, were vicars of - let me say - 'updated elites' of Francoism or the right or simply bearers of the weakness of the left opposition? It clearly wasn't like that. Among these walls, Marcelino Camacho maintained what has already been indicated: that amnesty is a national and democratic policy, the only consequent one that can close this past of civil wars and crusades. We want to open the way to peace and freedom. We want to close a stage. We want to open another, we, the Communists, who have so many wounds, who have suffered so much. Among these walls held Txiki Benegas, that no one believes that today we are granting something. Today we are only fulfilling a deep duty of democrats, with an inescapable commitment to freedom. Other voices sounded the same message, and on 15 October the Amnesty Law 46/1977 was passed by a very large majority: 296 affirmative votes, only two against, 18 abstentions and one null. Ladies and gentlemen, by the proposal we are discussing today, we are faced with another attempt, one more, to remember 2011, to amend this law, including a new paragraph, in its article 9, aimed at opening the investigation and prosecution of criminal acts subject to amnesty. With this initiative that would disassemble the concept of general and total amnesty, then loved by the majority of the people, a law that was one of the great pillars of the transition pact would be completely disjointed. And, ladies and gentlemen, with what effectiveness, what acts derived from the Amnesty Law would have to be reviewed? What specific subjects could be brought before the courts today after more than forty years since the entry into force of the law, and with regard to criminal acts dating back to the civil war and, in any case, to a first stage of the post-war period, fundamentally? It would be difficult to specify this subjective area, no doubt reduced. And would this selective justice be legitimate? It would not be so, because it would also be advocating the retroactive application of criminal law, which, as is well known, would be prohibited under article 9.3 of the Constitution by the principle of non-retroactivity of non-favorable or restrictive provisions of individual rights, as has already been recalled, in addition to being affected by legal certainty, whereas this principle must be understood as the confidence that citizens can have in the observance and respect of situations arising from the application of valid and current rules. We are working with a different perspective, ladies and gentlemen; a perspective that we understand much more productively. Our recent proposal for a law amending Act No. 52/2007 on Historical Memory, which has so much been cited here today, to which the Government of the People's Party vetoed, is a good example, because it would allow for the expansion and establishment of new measures in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the civil war and the Franco dictatorship, opening up comprehensive policies of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will not support the proposal we are debating today. I ask you to remember the communist Marcos Ana, who on the eve of the Amnesty Law said that he was a show of generosity... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u35	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u36	..., and even the noblest, when some we have already paid - and at what price -, and others not, the responsibilities that today we can cancel for all. This sentence, I believe, is a compendium of generosity, lucidity and height of sight, because what was intended was to put an end to the uncertainty that - in its own words - blocks and conditions the political evolution of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, today these words remain valid for all purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Lorenzo Torres has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to all your speeches on this subject and have heard speeches that are not free of much emotion and passion. I would like to see the passion that has so much been put into some of them to condemn Francoist crimes also put into condemning the crimes of ETA terrorists. [[Applauds]] But in this passion that you put into this bill I did not find any legal debate on this, no legal basis for what you are proposing today. You speak of repealing Amnesty Law 46/1977, and my question is: What would happen if we repealed this law? I'll explain it to you. Nothing would happen, because there are other laws in our legal system, which were also passed by this Parliament, which prevent the prosecution of the crimes of Francoism. More than investigating, prosecuting the crimes of Francoism. Do not forget that we are in a democratic society where the right is of brutal importance and here we are the ones who do the right, we are the ones who did the right, we are the ones who have the legal rules, and we have voted on a Constitution that says that the most unfavourable criminal law cannot be applied, which, if the law is changed, cannot be prosecuted, and penalties cannot be imposed on the facts before the Constitution. We also talk about prescription - a very important question - whether or not these facts are imprescriptible. In 2003 a reform of the Criminal Code was adopted in this Parliament, which stated that such offences never prescribed, but, as I say, this was from 2003, and there is an interpretation by the Supreme Court that this cannot be applied to pre-2003 offences. Therefore, offences committed in franchising, over time, would also be prescribed. But no one talks about this, because we want to talk about what we did before, we want to talk passionately, we even want to distort history. Someone here was talking about writing the story, but I think more than writing the story is twisting it. Of course, we too would like families who have suffered repression because of their political ideas or who have died in the gutters to bury them, but one thing is that and another is to lie to them by telling them that the perpetrators can be persecuted. Besides, I'm gonna tell you something. I calculated for the people who committed these crimes to see how old they would be now. Since 1977, forty years have passed; since the civil war, forty years more, they would have had to have been at least eighteen years old when committing the crimes, because if they did not have to be subject to the Juvenile Act. This would be a banality, Mr. Tardà. We're talking about ninety-eight-year-olds they want to start criminal proceedings against. I don't know if there's any left, but you have to explain to people that one thing is emotion, another thing is passion and another thing is legality, and with legality in your hand you know, like me, that these crimes cannot be prosecuted. [[Applauds]] Stop fooling people because they're playing with their feelings, they're playing with their emotions and they don't deserve that disrespect on your part. You, gentlemen of Podemos, are others who propose this request. I already know what you propose or seek. You, as always, are looking for the tweet. They'll probably be writing it down by now. They are probably writing that the People's Party is going to oppose the revision of the crimes, the pursuit of the crimes of Francoism. We are not going to oppose that, we are talking about the current legality, we are talking about the Constitution, we are talking about the Criminal Code. You are always the policy of tweeting; you do not deepen, you always stay on the surface. Mr. Tardà, you said you came full of indignation and sadness. I assure you that many times, when I heard people talking about your party here, I too indignantly indignantly, me and almost everyone present. To speak of indignation, I think I'd have to think about it first. I have seen what you proposed in the last plenary sessions: that the titles of nobility be removed, that the crime of treason against the homeland be removed. Today you bring this law that you know you have no route because nothing can happen, because there are other laws, other regulations that prevent the prosecution of these crimes, but you bring it here. That also outrages me, outrages me that deception that is done to the citizens. And I am sad above all for your comments and for all that we are seeing in this Parliament. One of the speakers said that this final point law - which is not a final point law but the Amnesty Law, rather - was the outstanding subject of the Spaniards. I believe that the outstanding subject of the Spaniards is not having passed this law which was born of consensus, which was born at the request of the people on the streets. I participated in these demonstrations - I was a young man - asking for amnesty: the first was done in La Coruña - a city for which I am a parliamentarian - in 1976, if you don't remember it; it was a partial amnesty. The second was made in 1977; we went out all the citizens to the street asking for this amnesty because we wanted to build, we wanted to make democracy and, thanks to this amnesty, the Constitution came out. I already know that you do not like the Constitution, I know that in the background with the formulation of this proposal of law you want to torpedo the Transition and with it the Constitution, because you do not like the Constitution. [[Applauds]] There is an article that says that the unity of Spain is based on the Constitution. Faced with that, we always reach out to the victims. No one prevents the investigation of crimes, but what we cannot do is tell people that they are going to be prosecuted or that the perpetrators are going to be prosecuted, because other laws prevent them. These laws are also in force and were passed by this Spanish Parliament. Reconciliation is not based on persecution, reconciliation is based on truth, on reaching out and saying that we are all here to seek solutions; never to create problems or to forget, but not to remember with bitterness and hatred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u40	We turn to item II of the agenda, on non-legislative proposals. First, we begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the increase in the age of marriage. Mrs Heredia Martín has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, getting married as a minor means growing up and growing up very soon. The initiative brought by the People's Parliamentary Group today proposes raising the minimum age for marriage in our country to 18, because we understand that it is a way of better protecting the life and future of our children, something that is already being done in other countries, is nothing new. It is already being done in Germany, in Denmark, in the United Kingdom, in France, in Portugal, in Italy, in Belgium and in Sweden. That is also what our civil society is calling for. We are being called upon by organizations as important as Plan Internacional in Spain, from which this proposal was born a few months ago, when on October 10 in this same House they presented a campaign, the 'Girls in Power' campaign, where four girls ambassadors were illustrating us about their experience fighting to raise the age of marriage in Malawi and Guatemala, a proposal that was supported by all the child spokespeople of the groups present, such as Mrs Ferrer, of the Socialist Group, Mrs Belarus, of the Podemos Group, and also Mrs Salmerón, of the Citizens Group. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let us also be consistent in our country and talk about child marriage today, because if child marriage is unfair in other countries of the world, it is also unfair in Spain, and especially because it affects mostly girls and women. On the other hand, we also respond to the latest recommendations of international bodies, such as the UN Human Rights Council, a recommendation that had not been made three years ago when we changed the minimum age for marriage to sixteen years. Some groups have tabled amendments not only to this amendment of the international recommendations, but to all the recommendations they have made to us. It is not possible to house each and every one of them in this proposal, because we cannot ask for the minimum age of marriage to be raised and also for hunger to end in the world. I therefore ask you today to be consistent and to stick to what we are asking for, which is quite clear. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that in our country we must continue to improve the system of protection of our children, as was done in 2015. An ambitious reform of twenty laws was made... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u43	... where the Government of Spain reached a broad consensus to define, among other things, forced marriage. The minimum age of sexual consent was raised from 13 to 16 and we became the first country in Europe to declare the best interests of the child. That is why we believe it is logical to consider this amendment at this time. We must continue along these lines, because that means the best interests of the child and also the respect that article 14 of our Constitution deserves. We all know what a marriage implies, we all know what it entails, we all know that it is clear that it is a very important decision, that we have to assume obligations, responsibilities and family burdens, and above all it is not just a commitment, but it is a contract. If a minor cannot make a light or rental contract, how will he make a contract to marry another person? How are we going to give him that responsibility? That's what we're here to discuss today, this afternoon. The future of that minor is also conditioned, it is clear. There are rare exceptions, but when a minor who is sixteen or seventeen years of age takes the step of getting married stops learning, stops studying, leaves school and dedicates himself to his family or in this case to his marriage. We are therefore degrading the life of that child and depriving him of an opportunity and guaranteeing his equal opportunities in life. How can it be that what we think is logical in another country does not seem good for Spain? That is what I want to make think of all the groups in this House. If we expand the minimum age of marriage, we also create social awareness. Over time, over the years, it is rare to marry sixteen years ago, and we can make a big breakthrough. Some groups will be able to tell me: I understand that this is an irrelevant measure because there are very few cases, because it is unnecessary. There are more than 2500 cases of minors who have been married in the last ten years in Spain, 929 cases from 2013 to 2017. In short, we are not talking about a few cases, but about 2500 realities that need to be helped and cared for by us. Early marriages are, above all - that we know, there is no need to study - in the most vulnerable families, because it is true - and I say it from the knowledge - that education is not so important, it is not a value for many families. Our parents prefer that we have a future rather than an education and, therefore, we have to help those families that, perhaps, do not have it so clear, giving them a chance to their daughters or their children. I'll give you an example. A girl I know, close to my circle, has chosen to marry at the age of sixteen. Why not also give him the opportunity to undertake an education, a professional life? That will translate into a better future, not only for her but also for her children. The Government is already working on new measures to combat these situations of discrimination, these situations of poverty. Efforts are also being made to improve the protection of minors in violence. It also concerns violence at this point, because it is clear that there are cases in which minors also enter the circle of violence when they marry at these early ages. We must avoid it and we can do so by adopting this measure this afternoon; we can do so by trying to prevent, as I say, these situations. Other groups will also be able to tell me that if the minimum age is increased, there will still be informal marriages or forced marriages. I think you should try to investigate why these marriages are being given. I understand that studies are already being carried out, ladies and gentlemen; from social organizations, in this case, studies are being carried out to see why these child marriages are taking place. It is a reality that we have on the street, we not only have to look at the studies but we live it on the street, in the poorest neighborhoods of our cities and our villages, and we know it closely also by what the social organizations and, above all, the organizations of the gypsy collectives transmit to us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u45	Because, who are those who marry prematurely? Statistics have no name, but it is clear that there are vulnerable groups like the Gypsy behind these figures. We have to act on age, especially because it is a legal decision that creates awareness. Ladies and gentlemen, among the gypsies recently it was normal to marry fourteen or fifteen years ago, but now that is already more rare and these cases are no longer being dealt with; now it is most common to marry sixteen. That is why I ask you here today, as a gypsy, that we take the step of pushing it to the eighteen, so that in a few years' time those gypsy children can also see getting married from the eighteen as normal. [[Applauds]] If today we change the minimum age of marriage, I can assure you that there will be a Roma girl who will arise, rather than marry, as her mother did, at sixteen years of age, continue her studies and work for a future, as she said before, and thus improve social inclusion and, above all, improve the equal opportunities of these girls. In short, what I want to ask you from here, from this rostrum, is that today you forget that this proposal is being put forward by the People's Party; I want you to forget that the People's Party is signing it and that you think and vote in conscience if tomorrow your children tell you that they want to marry, to see if they still think the same, with the consequences that that can lead to. I want to thank all the organizations that fight for the interest of the girls. From Unicef, Save the Children and, of course, especially to Plan Internacional and, above all, to the organizations of the Roma people, for all the relevant women who are defending the rights of Roma women such as Beatriz Carrillo, Sara Giménez or Carmen Santiago. Many thanks to them and, above all, I ask you to look at this measure as the most coherent and important thing we can do for the children of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u46	For the defence of the amendments tabled by your groups, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u47	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party, the party that is ruling, the same party that does not implement the State Pact against Macho Violence with concrete measures against forced marriage, the same party that has an obligation under the mandate of this House to bring a bill against violence in children - and it seems neither is nor is expected - this party brings us here today a non-law proposal to ban marriage to young people aged sixteen and seventeen years emancipated. In addition, they begin the explanatory statement with a suspicious non-petita excuse, they say: it might seem that with this initiative we try to limit rights, but this is not so. They continue: what is intended is to defend the best interests of the child. We agree, of course, that it is a priority to defend the interest of the minor, but is it really for you? [[The Lord]] If so, why have they not brought this law against violence in childhood, why not put the State Pact into effect at once? Moreover, it is important to say that we are talking about 16- and 17-year-olds who are already emancipated and, because of this emancipation recognized in our legal system, they are granted a number of rights. For this reason, look where you are looking, put it as you wish, this initiative would indeed entail a limitation of rights and, in addition, the creation of a new exception to the legal figure of emancipation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we see how day by day they are being placed in a more conservative and anti-liberal space. Whether this initiative is appropriate or not, without going into substance, they understand that in a democracy a cut in rights must be justified with strong arguments. Let me tell you that this half sheet of GNP that I show you is quite short. [[Applauds]] We will have to assess whether the measure they are proposing is balanced, whether that reduction of rights is really justified. What they do in these four paragraphs is simply give two simple data. On the one hand they say - not to mention any source - that from 2013 to 2017 807 marriages with minors were held. I went to the INE, which is supposed to have the data from the Civil Registry, and the data reflect that it was 291. You speak of 516 more marriages than the INE itself denies. At the very least we demand that they be rigorous with the data they provide; we don't know very well where they came from, so you can explain it to me later, because they don't agree with the officers. Faced with these data, we asked them the real ones: in the first half of 2017, twenty-six marriages were held in Spain with minors involved, six of them were sixteen years old and the remaining twenty had already reached seventeen. Let us value that perhaps it is not the same to be emancipated with sixteen as with seventeen because, why is the limit set in the eighteen and not in the seventeen or even in the nineteen? Argue something at least. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, we need a much deeper debate than the half folly they brought us here today. There are so few cases that they could even have been analyzed one by one. The second and final argument they use is that one in three girls in developing countries marry before the age of eighteen. This fact would be very good to discuss in Guinea, Pakistan or Guatemala where, unfortunately, it is, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is Spain, you do not see a reality that is not, that then you will not have any moral authority to complain when other groups do. What do you think if we look at countries in our environment, in Europe. In the United Kingdom, Italy, Norway the minimum age is sixteen, exactly the same as in Spain. It is also true, as you said, that in countries such as Denmark and Germany recent reforms have been made by increasing the age of eighteen, but they did so in a very different way, with a deep debate and, of course, with truthful data, not as you put it. Citizens have tabled an amendment in which we simply call for this to be debated with the seriousness it deserves. If you do not accept it, you will be irresponsible and will be made clear, because we have spoken to the International Plan and to those responsible for the Gypsy Secretariat and you agree with these amendments. We ask that it be done simply as in those countries, with a prior and rigorous assessment, which also examines the impact of the socio-economic situation of these children or, for example, the high drop-out rate we have in Spain, one of the highest in Europe, because these fundamental issues have to be addressed if the aim is really to defend the best interests of the child. I conclude, not without urging them for the umpteenth time to launch the State Pact against Macho Violence, with these five very concrete measures to combat forced marriages and to present this law as soon as possible to eradicate violence in children. Now, at once, keep your word, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and stop making non-legislative proposals that you know perfectly well that you will stay absolutely at nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Rodríguez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u49	Good afternoon and thank you, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, the truth is that the first thing we would like to say today is that we are a little confused with this initiative of the People's Party, because if one understands that public policies have to respond to the demands of society, of course we do not know very well what demand this initiative responds to and, moreover, we believe that there are other more urgent demands such as those we saw with pensions and what we saw on 8 March. And although, as democrats and feminists, we are, of course, concerned about the possible violation of the human rights of women and adolescents in our country, we do not understand exactly what this initiative responds to and why they bring it here today; we will see what are, in fact, the reasons to which it can respond. First of all, it seems to us that it is a confusing initiative in its approaches, because it is constantly mixing the different terms that can be used to talk about marriage. With the intervention of the spokesman of the Popular Group we have seen it clearly because, on the one hand, it mixes forced child marriage with forced teenage marriage and with marriage in general, making a criticism of the marriage a little strange. I will not be, as a feminist, suspected of being a defender of the institution of marriage but, of course, what is not correct is that if we marry we will abandon our lives; it is like an ideology of another time. On the other hand, we are extremely concerned that they will make this proposal without having real figures. It is quite unfair, especially for Gypsy women in our country, that, without any official study on the subject, they assume that those who have forced marriages at an early age are Gypsies. What are they based on to say this? This is, after all, an anti-Gypsy stereotype and precisely this type of stereotype are the ones that have been used by many of the people who make it impossible for gypsy women to access marriage under the same conditions as we do, or on any other issue or other fundamental right that they are now being violated by their situation. [[Applauds]] In this respect, we have tabled our amendment, an amendment which seeks to carry out an intersectoral and gender study, because it is also worrying that the intersectoral and gender perspective in this initiative is, of course, an indication of its position on the subject. Secondly, it seems to us that this is a proposal that is quite confused also in the causes and objectives. Forced marriages are not the causes but the consequences of a lot of things that happen to our teenagers. What happens to them, among other issues? They don't have the conditions to decide. And so much so that you lately want to make feminist policies, I give you a tip: to make feminist policies has to do with defending people's equality, but, of course, it also has to do with defending their freedom. In order to be free, so that the adolescents of our country can be free, we must also be able to give them the conditions for this; that is, we must be able to give them autonomy, and it seems that this initiative responds to a series of initiatives that the People's Party has been presenting not only in macho violence - although particularly accused in macho violence - that have to do with measures that are populist, punitive and childish, that do not want to give women rights but that what they want to do is prohibit them. That is, after all, puritanism, is simply to take away women's rights, to suppress them instead of giving them autonomy and the ability to decide on their own lives, and that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is also to do feminism, that is to do freedom and to do feminism, and with this initiative you are also cutting rights. Of course, we think that the best policies that can be made to help women have to do with guaranteeing these conditions of freedom, they have to do with giving them security under certain conditions. Why don't we launch the state pact? Why don't we get rid of the drop-out figures? Why don't we end up with everything that has to do with the sexual and reproductive rights that you have been working to cut back over and over again since the law that was passed in 2010? Not only with the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, but also with all that has to do with sexual and affective education, which we think could help women to say, also at the age of sixteen and seventeen, how they want to live their lives, how they want to finally exercise their right to join another person to form a family or simply love another person. These are issues that we believe they could set in motion if what they really wanted was to help these sixteen-and-seventeen-year-old women. We do trust the sixteen-and-seventeen-year-old women. We like Spain that we were taught on March 8, I don't know if you like this Spain, but we do, of course, do. We are clear that the women of this country are not going to keep staring at the bad guys, that they are very clear that to be the bad thing. We want women to be able to decide and choose how they want to do their lives and, therefore, it seems to us that this initiative is neither supported by data, nor realistic, nor has it to do with what is currently being demanded by the adolescents of our country, which, above all, is related to decent work, to a public and quality school; in fact, this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, responds once again to not wanting to do public policies, to not wanting to invest a single euro for women. [[Applauds]] I will tell you one thing to finish; something that is perhaps anecdotal but which I believe reflects quite well what the women of our country are telling us and what they told us in a special way on March 8, which was a historic day for the feminist movement. There was a banner that said there was a princess and that this time the princess saved herself. Finally, this is the story that today is in force in our society, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It seems that you continue to live in the songs of a friend of the Middle Ages. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. You tell us in your proposal that you bring this initiative to implement some of the recommendations of the report of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which I have here and to which I will refer throughout my speech. The first thing I want to make clear to you is that in Spain, in general, underage persons cannot enter into marriage. I'm going to say it again: you can't get married. Exceptionally, it can be celebrated among minors with parental or judicial consent. His proposal, therefore, is in fact intended to eliminate all kinds of exceptions and does so without knowing the case studies of the rare cases that occur in Spain. Mrs. Heredia, you have not passed even nineteen months of the reform that raised the minimum age for marriage and you bring a non-law proposal that only seeks to divert attention on other matters. This has no other explanation. We have tabled amendments to them. Firstly, because it seems logical that before any new legislative amendment we have a study that analyses the effects of a reform that is not even nineteen months old. Secondly, because we believe that there is a need to establish an action plan for the implementation of each and every one of the observations made by the Committee on the Rights of the Child to Spain. You in this proposal elude, conceal and disregard all the recommendations of the United Nations that affect thousands of children in matters of vital urgency for them. The minimum age for marriage in Spain is sixteen years. Early marriage is absolutely residual, accounting for only 0.03%. In fact, you have been forced to argue with data from developing countries that do not represent, or by far!, the Spanish reality, and in your explanatory statement you have accounted for three years prior to the 2015 reform in order to be able to inflate a data that would justify bringing this proposal. It cannot be legislated in a dissociative manner. You, who have legislated to unprotect young women, who have legislated to impose nothing more and nothing less than unwanted pregnancies, births and maternity, do you not blush when you demand that no one violate the rights of young women? I have to tell you that you could start by repealing your counter-reform of the abortion law, because that does seriously violate the rights of young women in this country. [[Applauds]] In Spain, in 2016, about 70% of the very few premature marriages that occurred were of foreigners, and no study helps us to understand whether there are ethnic or cultural circumstances or whether it is cases of teenage pregnancies that link them to such premature marriages. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we, prior to any legislative amendment, demand information that covers social, cultural, ethnic, educational or lack of emotional-sexual education and that can lead to a small number of people entering into early marriages. Only then will we be in a position to make changes that must be consistent with the rest of the legislative body, and this is a very important matter. You, with this reform, would, for example, gain the propensity to force a 17 - year - old to be a mother but not to let her marry. Stop thinking about it for five minutes. This measure is not one of the urgent measures in the United Nations report, but there are others who are, such as, for example, Mrs Heredia, which I will mention to you that I believe you may be of great interest. This report denounces racial discrimination and stigmatization of Roma children. It penalizes the Government that unaccompanied children are excluded from the child protection system. It censored the conditions in which nearly 17,000 children in residential care were found and the Government's inability to expedite adoption regulations. It claims the right to identity - you listen well - and recommends, for example, that Spain ensure that children born through belly rental have access to information about their origin. It calls for strengthening the prohibition of corporal punishment and combating the sexual exploitation of children. He claims family benefits and child allowances for single-parent families, large numbers or unemployed parents. So let's see if we're serious. The Socialist Group will support the protection of children in all its dimensions, from the seriousness and comprehensiveness of the response required by the United Nations report and of course while respecting policy coherence. We are not going to play the game to those who evade and despise the rest of the recommendations of the report and also intend to use residual situations in Spain in order, without knowing or providing any information on the case, to pretend to legislate without respect for the principle of regulatory coherence of the legal order. Be serious. Work to respond to recommendations in accordance with the United Nations emergency order. The other concerns other interests which, of course, are not those of urgency, are not those of necessity for children living in this country. Take note, you will not distract us; the urgent thing is to comply with what the United Nations demands of you as a matter of urgency and not to remove from the hat matters which, I insist, are residual in this country and which do not bring much. In any case, we are willing to hear from you something reasonable, at least once. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Speaking of minors, the priority is to echo the struggle that for years has been holding some platforms, organizations and also many specialists, some as well recognized as the innovative judge of Minors, Mr Calatayud, who claim that in Spain we urgently need a great pact for the child to reach a comprehensive agreement and avoid disputes in a crucial matter for the future of Spanish society. This afternoon we are talking about the minimum age for marriage, perhaps, as just stated in this rostrum, a residual issue. However, we have yet to give answers to many other major problems around our minors. [[The lady]] A few months ago, Minister Montserrat expressly encouraged this Parliament to work on the three-party pact, i.e. promotion, participation and protection of minors, but no progress is being made. We agree, Mrs Heredia, with this proposal by the Group of the European People's Party to urge the Government to extend the age limit for marriage and, therefore, extend the framework for the protection of minors in Spain. Here we can emphasize the plural female article because it is, above all, women, girls and adolescents, that is, minors, who have been subjected to marriage by enforcing the legislation that until 2015, the year in which the Law on Voluntary Jurisdiction entered into force, credited us as one of the few countries in the European Union that authorized, after judicial dispensation, marriage to persons under the age of sixteen. Accredited international organizations have joined forces to complete a programme to eliminate child marriage and, while in Spain the number of marriages has been cut or dropped very significantly in recent years, it is necessary to accompany our legislation to provide it with instruments and limits to avoid imposed marriages. This non-legislative proposal, moreover, is in line with the regulatory framework that most countries of the European Union have, in general, more restrictive than Spain in establishing a minimum age for the marriage of minors without parental or judicial consent. Therefore, Mr President, my vote will be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u53	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u54	Mrs Heredia, you have made some arguments which you have considered in isolation have some interest, but which are placed within the framework in which we are moving, of course, show an irrelevantness no longer just because of the issue of the numbers that you have taken out, because we are really talking, according to the figures of the National Institute of Statistics, of 0.03% of the marriages produced in the first half of 2017 - of the 68,769 people who married at that time, only 26 were minors -; I insist, not only the qualitative argument, but above all the quantitative one. When we talk about raising the age for marriage, we are affecting a right that has an important constitutional consideration, since article 32 recognizes the jus considbii and therefore we have to define several issues. Firstly, what is meant by the purposes of the matrimonial institution in today's society to really see what the age requirements should be for access to marriage and we must also analyse what has happened, what has happened since the adoption of Organic Law 1/1996 of 15 January on the Legal Protection of Minors, which for the first time in our country placed the minor as the centre of its evolution, as an active subject in its evolutionary process and gave him an active role. We must therefore see whether at that time, as it seems, the conditions of evolution of childhood and adolescence make it possible to understand that at certain ages greater maturity is reached and we should also frame this in the debate as to whether it is desirable to reduce the age of majority to sixteen, which is a matter on which we have to think. In any case, to put forward a proposal isolated from socio-economic conditions and isolated from conditions of cultural evolution, we believe that it is of no interest and we, in principle, cannot support this proposal, but we are awaiting the outcome of the debate because many amendments have been tabled and, in the end, we will vote with the result of the amendments as they have been negotiated, if they become so. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u55	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Ciuro i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the People's Group is bringing to debate a non-law proposal that seeks to re-amend the legal age for marriage. I say again because in 2015 we discussed the reform of the Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction and the age of minors to enter into marriage was increased from fourteen to sixteen years. Although it might be necessary at the time to increase the age of marriage to sixteen years because the Spanish State was among the countries with a lower age for marriage, we are now on the other side of the balance and a change is being made which, fortunately, is residual in the statistics at the level of events in the Spanish State. We therefore fail to see the desirability of this amendment, as, inter alia, the recent State Covenant against Gender Violence addressed many issues, including forced marriages, and a number of measures were taken. As a result, there was no need to increase the age of marriage; instead, a number of measures were taken to protect children in situations of vulnerability to forced marriage. Prohibiting without protection makes us feel unproductive, so we are not going to support this amendment of the legal limit. We will wait to see if the majority group is willing to accept any amendments to finally determine our vote, but with the current wording this would be wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u57	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. An initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group was presented for discussion, urging the Government to implement the relevant legal amendments to raise the minimum age for marriage to eighteen years, in line with the recommendations of a number of international organizations in 2012. At present, our legal system establishes the age of marriage from the age of majority, which begins at the age of eighteen years, unless the future contracting party is emancipated without having fulfilled it and after having attained the age of sixteen years and after granting those exercising parental authority by judicial grant and independent life. This regime of minors for marriage was changed, as has already been said, in 2015 when the possibility contained in article 48 of the Civil Code was eliminated so that the judge could dispense with the impediment of age for children under sixteen years of age and with fourteen years of age. And also, as stated in the explanatory statement of the proposal, in 2015 the Penal Code was reformed, raising the minimum age of sexual consent from thirteen to sixteen years. Therefore, it draws our attention to the fact that now, less than three years after having raised the minimum age for marriage, the need to raise that minimum age again is claimed to prevent the emancipated from the age of sixteen, when the ministerial team is the same and the recommendations of the international organizations that are quoted were already known, as they date back to 2012. Spain, today, has an average age of 18 and can be reduced to 16 for contractors if they have the consent of their guardians and in some countries also with the judiciary. On the other hand, if we analyze the age requirement in other sectors of the legal system, we observe that below the age of eighteen there are a multitude of areas - and very relevant - in which minors have the capacity to work. Thus, from the age of fourteen, with requirements and nuances, they can grant wills, be criminally responsible, give consent to transfer personal data, open accounts on social networks or upload their photographs to the Internet. Even the European regulation to which we are now adapting our data protection legislation allows these services to be contracted between the ages of 13 and 16, leaving the decision to the Member States, and the draft organic data protection law, currently under discussion in the Committee on Justice, proposes that this age be 13 years. For their part, from the age of sixteen, minors can give their informed consent in health matters, emancipate themselves - as we have already mentioned - have consensual sexual relations or work with the authorization of their guardians and with some limitations: night work, overtime or occupy unhealthy or dangerous jobs. They may also drive certain motor vehicles, be witnesses and heard in court, perform acts of disposition in public documents of their property through their consent and perform acts of ordinary administration of the property acquired through their work or activity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessarily the eighteen-year-old age at which people acquire in almost all areas of life their ability to work, as it seems to show us the non-law proposal, sometimes even in the wrong way, such as with regard to criminal liability, to drive certain motor vehicles, to administer and dispose of their property, or even the age to vote, which is certainly in the eighteen-year-old age, although, as you know, it is not today exempt from a deep debate for their reduction to sixteen-year-old age. Finally, we also draw attention to the way in which the age for marriage is to be changed, through a non-law proposal that urges the Government to carry out the relevant legal changes to bring it up to eighteen years. A thorough analysis on the subject is not required, but directly that legal changes be made to materialize the increase in age. The truth is that the matter is long enough to deserve a greater reflective and deliberative effort. For all that has been said, ladies and gentlemen, and without our prejudices on the substance of the matter, we cannot support the initiative. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u59	Thank you very much. The Socialist Left Parliamentary Group then gave the floor to Mrs Capella i Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u60	Thank you, President. Very good late, ladies and gentlemen. Oriol Junqueras and Quim Forn have been deprived of their liberty for 138 days. Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, 155 days. They're political prisoners. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, article 46 of the Civil Code states that minors who are not emancipated may not marry; that is, in the Spanish State the minimum age for marriage is established at the age of majority, at which time the person acquires full independence by extinguishing his or her parental authority and thus attaining full capacity to act. [[The lady]] The age of majority is acquired, as you know, at the age of eighteen - as stipulated in the Constitution in its article 12 - except in those special cases in which the person is declared incapable. However, persons over the age of sixteen and under the age of eighteen may dispose of their person and property as if they were older when they were in the civilian situation of emancipated persons. Article 323 of the Civil Code stipulates this. In these cases, the Civil Code allows emancipated minors to enter into marriage and it is also true that in 2015 there was a reform whereby marriage can be contracted by dispensing at the age of fourteen. I say all this because the Spanish Civil Code already establishes the minimum age for marriage, which is at the age of eighteen, and there is only one exception, emancipated minors, who can marry from the age of sixteen. It's good that we know where we are and where we manage. The People's Party presents us with this non-law proposal - not a bill through the Government or a bill through the parliamentary group - based on the fact that the United Nations Human Rights Council, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, the special representative of the General Secretariat for Violence against Children, the working group on discrimination against women in law and in practice, as well as four special procedures mandate holders, issued a joint statement in 2012, recommending that States raise the age of eighteen years, because one in three girls - as the non-law proposal says - from developing countries marry before the age of eighteen years. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Republican Left is against child marriage - we don't have to say it, but we say it in case someone is wrong and thinks something else - we are opposed, as it could not be otherwise, to forced marriages. It has already been said that they are a consequence and, in any case, have to do with situations that you, in no case, in your non-law proposal intend to address. But I have to tell you something else, the 16- and 17-year-olds are neither girls nor boys, they are young. And yes, for Esquerra Republicana they are not children, and much less can be considered boys or girls when they are emancipated because this is established by law and because a number of legal requirements are given. We understand that persons over the age of sixteen have recognized rights and obligations of great responsibility. For example, they can work, and this is provided for by article 6 of the Workers'Statute with limitations; they can test those over the age of fourteen, and this is provided for by article 663 of the Civil Code; they are obliged to pay taxes; they have full consent to medical treatment; they have criminal responsibilities under the Organic Act regulating the criminal liability of minors. That is why we in this House are defending the right of persons over the age of sixteen to vote. And just as we advocate that young people over the age of sixteen have already acquired the maturity and knowledge to be full citizens, we must defend today that people of sixteen and seventeen emancipated years must be able to marry and register as a de facto couple. I shall finish, Madam President, with a procedural point. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you really believed that this amendment to the Civil Code on the right to marry was so necessary, why did you not present us with a proposal for a law? Why haven't we been presented with a bill through the government? It is striking that the party that supports the Government presents initiatives by urging itself to do something. If you really have the political will to change the minimum age for marriage, make a proposal for a law or tell the Government to submit a bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u61	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Heredia Martín whether she accepts some of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u62	Madam President, we are still appreciating the group's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u63	Thank you very much. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, A state-of-the-art debate. [[File number 162/000569]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u64	We now discuss the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea calling on the Government to hold a state debate of the nation. For the presentation of the initiative and the defence of the amendment presented, Mr Iglesias Turrion has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the 18th day my group registered a non-legislative proposal urging the Government to hold a debate on the state of the nation. Less than twenty-four hours later, the government's spokesman, Don Iñigo Méndez de Vigo, said in a press conference that the government would hold the debate on the state of the nation - and I quote literally - before spring. According to calculations by the National Astronomical Observatory, spring has begun today at 5:15 p.m., peninsular time. [[Applauds]] It seems obvious that the spokesman minister lied, but I would not want to call Mr Mendez de Vigo a liar as he is called a liar to any commoner. I would like to use some reference to his height, for which I will allow myself to quote some verses from the great Quevedo, which, like Mr Méndez de Vigo, was noble. It is a pity that the spokesman of the Government does not accompany us, but I am sure that in the Diario de Sesiones justice will be done with these verses of Quevedo, which say thus: 'A bad job is lying, but sheltered: / that has to tailor the lie, / that you saw the one who says it; and even if you aspire / put the liar, it is well rewarded'. The truth is that our classics were able to picture well what you represent, ladies and gentlemen. Poems and lies aside, it gives the impression that you do not want this Congress to debate the situation in Spain. I, unlike many of you, have not been here for many decades, but I know that the debate on the state of the nation is a parliamentary practice at least since 1983. With the exception of the election years, every year since 1983 there has been debate about the state of the nation. The last event took place in this House in the winter of 2015. We are already in the spring of 2018. In the last debate on the state of the nation that took place here there was neither Podemos nor Citizens. I believe it is high time for a debate on the state of the nation to take place in this legislature. It may seem to you that nothing extraordinary has happened in this legislature that deserves such a debate, but it gives me the impression that some extraordinary things have happened. We are in a legislature in which four ministers of his Government have been repudiated: Minister Catalá, for interference in cases of corruption affecting the People's Party; Minister Montoro, for the unconstitutionality of his fiscal amnesty; Minister Dastis, for the first time, for defaming the Catalan school in the BBC; for the second time Minister Dastis, and Minister Zoido, for failing to comply with the refugee reception quota imposed by the European Union. We are in such an extraordinary legislature that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional the fiscal amnesty of Montoro, the compensation you gave to the company Castor of Florentino Pérez of 1350 million euros and its reform of 2012 to elect the president of Spanish Radiotelevision. We are in such an extraordinary legislature that the general budgets for 2017 continue to be extended. And we have a very normal legislature in which the veto record has been broken; there have been more vetoes in what we have in the legislature than in all the recent history of our democracy. Some examples are: equal and non-transferable maternity and paternity leave law, vetoed by the People's Party; PAH-worthy housing law, vetoed today, a law that avoided evictions without housing alternatives, and thus up to fifty-six veto laws. This is the ordinary and quiet legislature of the blocked laws: the law that established the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, blocked by you in December 2016; the law that established the suspension of the Lomce, blocked since December 2016; the repeal of the law gags, blocked as well, and so many laws. It may seem that we are in a context where corruption has disappeared from Spain and therefore there is no need to debate the state of the nation, but it turns out that in this legislature the use of Box B for the illegal financing of the People's Party has been confirmed; its illegal financing has been confirmed in electoral campaigns; M. Rajoy has testified as a witness in a corruption case of his own party, and the UDEF inspector said that M. Rajoy was indicatively receiving illegal charges; in addition, there has been the opening of an oral trial against the People's Party on the case of the destroyed computers in Bárcenas, and new mega cases of corruption have appeared that involve important leaders of his party, such as the Lezo case. With regard to the economic and social situation, you could say that the economic situation is magnificent. I will not give you any opinion, simply data: we are only outnumbered in inequality in Europe Romania, Latvia, Lithuania and Bulgaria - it is Eurostat data -; the three richest people have the same wealth in Spain as 30% of the population; three out of ten Spaniards are at risk of poverty - again, Eurostat data -; according to Oxfam, seven out of ten people receiving the lowest wages in Spain are women, and energy poverty - again, it is Eurostat data - affects nothing more and nothing less than 4.5 million people. You could say: But the important thing works, pensions. Well, it turns out that in Spain six million pensioners charge less than EUR 12 000 a year, pensions have lost EUR 432 of purchasing power from 2010 to 2017 and more than two million women have to live with a contributory pension of less than EUR 650. As you will understand, pensioners are not on the street by chance. I ask you one simple thing: Doesn't Spain deserve a debate on the state of the nation? It gives the impression that you only face when you force them to do so, as the mobilizations of the pensioners have shown. I ask you to give your face at once and assume that there must be a debate in this country on the problems of Spain, not out of respect for the opposition, but out of respect for the Spanish citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u66	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government may be paralysed, but Parliament and Spain are not, so it is not only desirable that the proposer should explain to us, but it should be soon and, in that sense, our amendment goes: to ensure that it is done as soon as possible, and in our view it should be in April. We agree with the proponents and with what the common sense dictates, that is, that the debate of the state of the nation is a tool of control of the Executive that is perfectly consolidated. Since almost the beginning of democracy, since the beginning of the first government of Felipe González, the debate of the state of the nation has played a very important role in various aspects: in the democratic maturation of Spanish society, taking to the streets all areas of the public thing in a structured way, exhibiting parliamentary practice before the Spanish people, in contrast to opinions, in the balance that each one makes of complex situations, in the sharing of roles in a state of law. Therefore, in addition to a control tool, we believe that it has been a very important tool from the point of view of the political pedagogy of a society that is fortunately now mature democratically, but still needs at this time more than ever that which has been subtracted for three years in a row. Since February 2015 there has been no debate on the state of the nation and there have been endless debates on the state of the nation in forums that are not this: fragmentary debates, unstructured debates... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u68	Quiet, please. Quiet. Wait a minute, Your Honor. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u69	Its lack of call steals this form of political participation, takes that compass away from the citizenry, prevents the proper follow-up of Spanish politics at a stage characterized precisely by the biggest challenges that Spain has faced in many years, I would say that the biggest challenges that it has faced at least since after the coup d'état in Tejero. Just five strokes. An institutional blow, threatening the territorial integrity of the State and applying for the first time this closure clause, which is article 155 of the Constitution. We are at the last stage of a very serious economic crisis which has forced us to go through the excessive deficit procedure in Brussels and to rescue part of the financial system and which has left millions of workers unemployed or insecure. Is not the problem of precariousness a matter that deserves a format like the debate on the state of the nation, which is visualized by a very large, very important public, because that is one of the advantages of this customary tool? The urgency of rethinking policies capable of guaranteeing the pension system. There is obvious concern about the pension system, about its sustainability. Mix that with the endless parade of corruption cases already in their judicial stages, a very unediting spectacle. I'm on it. The lack of movements in educational policies, of employment, of R+D+i, able to put Spain in a position to seize as an opportunity, and not to suffer as a threat, the technological revolution that is coming, that is already coming. Spain is playing it in this technological revolution. What Spain do we want to be? Isn't it fair for the Spaniards to judge what everyone wants to be Spain? Isn't it fair for the Spaniards to judge, in that successful format that is the debate about the state of the nation, as tradition shows, who has a project for Spain and who doesn't? Only those who lack a project for Spain can fear the convening of the debate on the state of the nation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke first of all at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions. [[Rumors]] I beg you to remain silent and, please, to occupy your seats. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Insist the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can in some ways do politics with which we do not agree at all. Today, Mr. Iglesias Turrion, the priority of Spain and Asturias is the State General Budgets Bill for 2018, a key piece for growth, employment and overcoming inequalities, not the spectacular debate about the state of the nation you claim. The Government has already announced that in less than a week it will present this bill to this House for debate and approval by the General Courts, a process that will be prolonged for three months, almost two months here in the Congress of Deputies, and that will require the greatest effort to try to reach agreements that will allow Spain to update its public accounts and progress in solving the major problems of its citizens. It is a long and complex process that requires a great deal of commitment to reach agreements that allow urgent responses to problems such as population ageing, competitiveness of the economy, stable employment, pensions, autonomous financing and essential services to be reflected in the public accounts. Therefore, budgetary adjustment is a matter that requires the greatest effort and rigour, and to this we will dedicate ourselves from Forum to implement within deadlines and contents the pact with the People's Party, which will inescapably mark our decisions to support or reject the draft budget law for this year. This is the great parliamentary priority, for which paradoxically, even without knowing the content of the draft budget law, you, Mr Turrion Churches, have already announced amendments to the whole. Unido Podemos doesn't want Spain to have budgets and prefers the show. Don't count on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I believe that - and without it being a precedent many times - you are right, but also Mr Iglesias is right, and that is that there is a Spanish saying saying: The courteous does not take away the courageous. Indeed, the budget debate is a fundamental debate, but the government's control debate is as fundamental as budgets. Check it out, February 25, 2015. I was in this very rostrum and I couldn't finish the debate because he gave me that wretched one and, finally, I couldn't finish it. I was wearing an abecedary of all, let's say, People's Party cheats, and I'll be forgiven for such a nice expression. For three years later all that remains in force or has even worsened. The corruption of the People's Party remains in force; even the President of the Government has had to go and declare it. It remains present - this very morning have come those of the Platform of Affected by the Mortgage - that every day continues to unravel people. The issue of autonomous financing remains here; we have been behind five years. The law is still in place; people are being imprisoned every week for expressing their ideas. And there is still, for example, a fall in wages; every time workers have less share in the gross domestic product pie. This added to new problems: the problem of Catalonia, the problem of pensioners on the streets, the problem of women, the problem of the population at risk of poverty, which continues to increase. In short, and I finish, there is a novel by the writer Graham Greene, The Impassive American, who always reminds me of Mr. Mariano Rajoy: the impassive Galician, who does not get nervous about anything and here we continue without giving our face. Therefore, of course we will vote yes to this motion because we understand that it is essential that a debate be held on the state of the nation, also for the serious problems that this country has. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iglesias, we share the substance and form of your initiative, and we will therefore vote in favour. Indeed, this is being a useless legislature; useless because of the inaction of the Government. This House has never been so incapable of promoting the necessary legislative reforms, but at the same time we have a government that, through the veto, with the satisfaction of its citizens ally, blocks the initiative capacity of opposition groups; you have mentioned some of these initiatives. And we all also agree that the social, political and economic moment at which we are installed would require - it is what society, our voters, in fact, demands - that this House be facing these challenges. In this regard, it is also very clear that accountability is fundamental in a democratic system and the general policy debate is part of that accountability exercise of any executive. Therefore, I insist, we support your initiative. But, if I may, I think we should also remember that there is an elephant in the room and that elephant is the Catalan question. The Government's option of having for years given up addressing the Catalan question from politics and having chosen for some time to allow things to rot in the hope that this would be resolved and then opting for police repression and criminalization of what is a political conflict, leads to this government paralysis and the inability of this House to agree on political issues because the Catalan question is being ignored, and it is shown that if Spain is to be governed, it cannot be ignored in Catalonia. We cannot ignore the more than two million Catalans put forward by the state itself or the two and a half million Catalans who demand a political referendum to decide the political future of Catalonia. As long as the Catalan question is not resolved, Spain will be difficult to govern. There, Mr. Churches, we agree with you in some ways to respond to that challenge. I hope that this non-legislative proposal will succeed and we will have that debate pending in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u77	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak from the seat because I am not going to debate the debate or a prequel to the debate. So I will stick to what the Group of the European People's Party has to say about the need for a debate on the state of the State. I think there is no doubt about it, especially because the last time it happened was a few years ago. There's no doubt about that. It is true, however, that, although it is a parliamentary custom, the mechanism is in the hands of the Government and the Government may or may not present the communication and convey it accordingly. It is also true that we take the sessions, let's say, changed; we walk changed. This debate normally took place in the first part of the year and in the second part of the year was the budget debate, the great debate of that session. What is happening now is that this is going backwards; it has already happened last year and this year we are being announced a budgetary debate in the near future. What would happen is that at this very session we would have two major debates, but I understand that there should be no problem with that. Moreover, it seems that the Government itself has expressed its willingness to do so. If he doesn't, we will certainly demand that he keep his word. What I do not see very clearly is paragraph 2, which says that in the event that the Government does not communicate the holding of such a debate, the plenary expresses its willingness to convene a monographic plenary. I do not know how we are going to do this because the Rules of Procedure clearly state that it is the Madam President who is responsible for convening it. As a result, seventy Members will be able to request it or two parliamentary groups, but then we know how majorities play on the Board of Spokesmen and on the Bureau. Both you, the Group of Cans, and we are quite tired of checking it out. Therefore, I see good will but little turning to this second point. In any case, the non-law proposal will come out, also with our votes, of course, and I trust that the Government will keep its word and that the debate and the second half of the budgets will be normalized in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u79	Too late to all and so to all. Thank you very much, President. Rajoy won the elections without an absolute majority and baptized this legislature as the legislature of dialogue. At the time, M. Rajoy was aware that his parliamentary minority would force him to make concessions to the opposition and in order to obtain the PSOE's abstention from his investiture the leader of the PP structured, through large state pacts, the priorities of a mandate that was intended - or some were intended - difficult. Within four months, two years of this legislature will be completed, a legislature in which the General Courts - as has already been said - have largely ceased to exercise three of the powers conferred on them by the Constitution: the power to legislate, budgetary power and that of government control. Neither legislation nor legislation is passed, we are still without budgets and it is clear that the effectiveness of government control is null and void. I remind you, in case someone is dismembered, that this House has repudiated four ministers - Dastis, Zoido, Catalá and Montoro - by a large majority and it seems to me that the four are still sitting on the blue bench. The conclusion is that the Government of the People's Party, with its collaborator - uncomfortable, but necessary - the national orange front and its stewards of Spanish socialism have more interest, through the Government, in their justice, their police and their king, in extending the fear between the citizens to make it subject to their will than in holding a general policy debate on the state of the nation in order to be able to evaluate, so as to be able to directly consider the work of the Government through a debate open to the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, spring is expected to be hot; the demonstrations of the pensioners of this Saturday and of previous days have no precedent; in fact, they are historic and they are because they are unusual, in the same way as were the feminist mobilizations of last 8 March and the general mobilization of the people of Catalonia for their republic and their civil rights, with a brutal and impressive collective organization of the referendum of 1 October, or also the demonstration of this same Saturday of 'Sum Escola', in defense no longer of an educational model but of a model of society based on the integration and coexistence of all citizens, whatever their language of expression. And today, it has already been recalled here too, the veto to debate the PAH housing law at parliamentary level. But do you know anything, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? You are failing, your plan is failing, but you are failing because you are not afraid; in fact, you are not afraid of anyone, even if you do not dare to convene and hold a debate about the state of the nation. They can imprison political and social leaders, they can persecute artists and users of social networks, they can take gross advantage of the infernal pain of killing a child to try to implant life imprisonment, they can continue to do what they really want, they can even finish the legislature without calling a general policy debate, look, and they can do it because Rajoy, behind a plasma and without blushing, dares everything; in fact, he dares to make a positive balance of 2017 despite what has been lived and lived in Catalonia, but claiming that it was a year won by recovery. And I wonder: a year for recovery? What was and remains is a year in which you have put the sustainability of the pension system at risk, a year in which you have not been bold enough to reach agreements on the system of autonomous financing or on territorial reform, a year in which you have not been able to achieve more than a pact with the other forces and warn them, because I was in it, that it was by the hair. I am referring to the Pact against Gender Violence, which they have not even been able to finance, because where are the 200 million committed to begin to eradicate this scourge? I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, they're not scary. With or without debate they are no longer afraid, citizens are not afraid to say what they think, nor are they afraid to protest against evil rulers. People if they feel anything is shame; shame and I would dare to say that also anger, and maybe even a little disgust of having to endure their authoritarianism and their corruption. The Republican independenceists will vote in favour of calling for the convening and holding of a general policy debate on the state of the nation giving the green light to this initiative that comes after a year and a half of the investiture, in a legislature that has gone from the supposed legislature of dialogue to, of course, the legislature of the blockade, and it should also be added that not only of the blockade but of authoritarianism and repression. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u80	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u81	President, ladies and gentlemen, three years of the last debate on the state of the nation was completed in February, so that someone else should have already held or, at least, convened at the beginning of this session and, although the proposing group did so a little far, if it could be, welcome by July. This debate has become an annual parliamentary practice since 1983, with then President González, and they all agree that - because we do not extend in its meaning - it is the government's most important appointment with the House, the one that gives it confidence, to which it is responsible for its management and which represents better than any other act the political centrality of Parliament. As this initiative acknowledges, it is a debate that begins with a communication from the Government and therefore, under the current Rules of Procedure of the House, needs the President to take the step to convene it. The fact is that the fact that it has not yet been celebrated demonstrates the scant - and benevolent - consideration that the current President of the Government has for this House. In this legislature Mr Rajoy attends the monitoring sessions because he has no other remedy, but, first, he prevents the legislative initiative of the parliamentary groups by means of an unprecedented and tortuous use. It already has 57 vetoed proposals for legislation!, both from parliamentary groups and from the autonomous communities, which is a record that is not negligible in a government that has only been able to send 17 bills, three quarters of them to comply with the transposition of European directives. Secondly, he is the only President of the Government who in the last legislature refused to attend the monitoring session in breach of constitutional duty. And in the X Legislature, which had an absolute majority, it was the president who most appearances requested by the various parliamentary groups rejected: more than a hundred. By way of example, the Vice-President of the Government, who is also the minister in charge of the relations of the Government with the Courts, when she appeared in the Constitutional Commission of Congress when she was appointed in January 2012, was allowed to solemnly state the following: The Government is at the disposal of this Parliament, it is our obligation and our vocation to be accountable for what we do today as I am doing here, we will do so seriously and with the truth ahead, we would not know otherwise. Well, it's less bad! Although he has not returned to the Commission since then until 2016, when he came to outline the policy of his department and again has stopped coming to the Commission, where he already accumulates a dozen petitions from the various parliamentary groups. Thirdly, the President points out that he does not comply with the mandates and resolutions of this House, even those that have been voted for by his own parliamentary group; indeed, one of the most important parts of that debate on the state of the nation, the presentation and voting of motions for resolutions, is inexorably devalued by this attitude of the Government to remove any relevance to the resolutions of the House, where popular sovereignty is represented. Fourthly, the use of decree-laws, which are constitutionally reserved for situations of extraordinary and urgent need, means replacing Parliament in its functions as the holder of the legislative power of the State to the detriment of the rights of parliamentary minorities, democratic quality and parliamentarianism. Mr. Rajoy's Government has misused the decree-laws by reaching a percentage of the total number of legislative initiatives that no other Government had achieved in democracy. When Mr Rajoy had an absolute majority, 186 Members, 34% of his statutory rules were decree-laws; but in this legislature, even with 134 Members, far from the absolute majority, he has reached an even higher percentage: more than 75% of the government's legislative output has been made through this exceptional instrument to legislate! Ladies and gentlemen, we are before a government that has demonstrated, among other things, two things. One, that Parliament is an uncomfortable place that it only attends when there is no other remedy, in most cases due to legal imperative. Secondly, your disregard for Parliament, its procedures and its rules. I'm done. It is therefore essential that this debate on the state of the nation be convened in order for the President to be able to respond politically to his management in this House, no matter how uncomfortable it may be. The Presidents of the Government are because they are invested by the Congress of Deputies and a President of the Government cannot disregard the political centrality of Parliament as the current President does because its legitimacy derives precisely from the will expressed by this House. Congress is not a place where confidence is obtained and which can be dispensed with during the rest of the legislature, and less when absolute majority is not available. That is why it is also a very serious mistake to pretend to devalue its role and centrality or to want to curtail its legislative powers as Mr Rajoy has been doing for a long time. For all that I have said, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we will support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u82	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Lord Churches, thank you very much for sharing with us an appointment of Quevedo. If I may, I will share one with you: The pride never descends from where it ascends, but always falls from where it ascends. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I have to admit that this debate gives us some perplexity about the content of the initiative presented today by the Group of the European People's Party, and it is not often that your parliamentary group, Mr. Iglesias, presents initiatives to support precisely what the Government has already announced it will do. The government spokesman, Mr. Iglesias, has already announced that the debate on the state of the nation will take place in spring before the end of spring. [[Applauds.-Protests]] I believe, Mr Iglesias, that it is a bit absurd for us to have a debate on spring, but we can have it; in any case, spring ends on 21 June, so what the Minister-Speaker of the Government announced and what you are asking for at the first point in your non-law proposal is exactly the same: that the debate on the state of the nation be held at this session. In that regard, in addition to showing our surprise that you are asking for something that the Government has already said it is going to do, we would like to convey to you that we are asking you to vote separately on the two points of your non-law proposal because we have no problem in supporting precisely what the Government has already said is going to be done. It's a little strange that it's you who ask for it. [[Applauds]] Once again, Mr Iglesias, this speech once again raises in the House a sterile debate, an initiative of political impulse to push something that no one needs to push because the government has already announced that the debate will take place. You have defended something - let me tell you without acrid - a little ridiculous. They have already done so a few weeks ago in the Permanent Chamber, where they raised this same debate without content, they actually raised a debate to ask for a debate in which to ask for a debate. What you do is called'metadebate', debate on future debates. I would once again like to say that this debate will normally be held and will be held at this session, as you ask. The first part of your non-law proposal is fine, I agree, the debate on the state of the nation is a parliamentary custom, it arises in 1983 and, as such parliamentary custom, it is binding, but what you do not say is that the President of the Government has already appeared many times in this House - he did so last week, without going further, to talk about pensions -; what you do not say is that the year 2016 was a unique year in parliamentary terms; what you do not say is that the year 2017 this House lived a moment of great constitutional importance as was the debate and vote of the motion of censure in which you intended to replace the President of the Government, that is, to be President of the Government without going through the polls, and you, as we all know, failed and since then have done nothing but lose credibility. In fact, as we have all seen, the initiative you have defended today is an alibi, an excuse to have a few minutes in the rostrum devoted to a generalist speech against the Government. You have forced a debate that was not necessary to take account of the state of the nation's debate, to have publicity for the political positions that you will defend when that debate is held. [[Applauds]] We cannot share the amendment tabled by Citizens because it is hardly compatible with the Rules of Procedure. You know, Mr Girauta, that the Rules of Procedure state that the draft budget law, which is to be debated in the House from April onwards, has preference in dealing with any other initiative and, therefore, I do not think it is serious or responsible to call for both the debate on all budgets and the debate on the state of the nation to be held in April. Moreover, as you know very well, the debate of the state of the nation is exclusively to call it, to ask for it, to the Government; therefore, I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, that you are acting less and less in disguise. Mr. Iglesias, as I said at the outset, if you admit the separate vote of the two points in your non-law proposal, we will vote in favour of your initiative at the first point, but, believe me, you have not managed to generate any controversy on this issue. First, because your initiative urges the Government to do something that the Government has already announced it will do and, in this way, in a somewhat ridiculous way, you have become a group that supports the Government. Secondly, because the first person who is interested in discussing all the issues that you have raised in this rostrum in a way that has been trampled on is the President of the Government, who will come to this House, has no doubt, to defend the management of his Government with full conviction and to deny with objective data that sinister image of Spain that you are committed to transferring to the citizens. Thirdly, because you have long lost credibility and today we have seen with this unnecessary and repetitive debate that you have also lost creativity. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u84	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Turrion whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u85	Yes, we accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u86	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u87	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the Government's educational model. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Díaz Trillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we just heard a moment ago about the appearance of the corpse of Corporal Diego Díaz, who disappeared on Saturday in Guillena, on the Rivera de Huelva River, helping to save lives. [[The Lord]] I believe, President, that I can echo the condolences of all your ladies and gentlemen and transfer it to your family, friends and colleagues. [[Applauds]] We are debating today the motion following the inquiry last Wednesday, where we were able to see how the Government seemed a little or a lot alien to the educational model. The minister tried in that appearance, through that parable of the oxen and the chariot, to evade his responsibilities. I would like to say to your ladies and gentlemen that the oxen are the General Budgets of the State, where logically the items that make it possible for this country, after six years, to emerge from the queue of the European Union and from the large number of countries in the world in investment in education. Without that investment, it is certainly impossible to make reasonable and reasonable changes after more than a year that we have been discussing in the Commission. On the other hand, regarding that idea or headline the minister was looking for on Wednesday of the scarecrow, I think he was wrong. What the minister has said over the course of this year and a half, in which he has apparently been summering, is that he has ambushed us in every rule, where through that agreement, of that will of agreement that has taken us many hours of debate, discussion and very good will of a party, we have repeated it many times, that he is able to agree in the government and from the opposition, we reached that limit where the extension that we were giving to Lomce seemed to be a matter of almost taking up hair. [[Applauds]] I say this because I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a strategy that has to do with everything that concerns the welfare state. You've been seating for a year and a half, extending your absolute majority. He speaks of pensions, he speaks of health, he speaks of dependence, they follow the same laws and the same rules. They practically do nothing but keep everything, and the same is true of education. This initiative has a virtuality that I want to express and enter into directly, which is to reiterate democratic agreements. Perhaps it is paradoxical in other parliaments, in other places where great issues concerning the sovereignty that resides in this House are discussed, it turns out that we are going to repeat the order of a dozen non-law propositions and several propositions of law. In short, there were many initiatives that promoted getting out of the jam, the delay and the regression to which that law has led us, which, by the way, all the groups in the X Legislature had committed themselves to repealing. It is true that the pact was becoming an ambush, a trap, and you - I am speaking not only of the People's Party, which governs, but also of the co-government of Citizens - do not raise the stock that you have put us up on forty-six occasions. [[Applauds]] Lift the veto at once to the non-legislative proposal that will allow the Lomce to be paralysed at once and we can act on this initiative. We want to do this, to give the watch of equity, of quality, of equality in education. And here's a word I really care about. We've been listening to the freedom canteen for a long time. The Socialists are going to talk to us about freedom. My colleague, Gregorio Cámara, who is from Granada, was talking today about when Fernando de los Ríos told Lenin in that famous conversation: What happens to freedom in Russia? "Freedom for what?" Lenin says. To be free. We have been fighting for freedom for one hundred and forty years, but I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's and Citizens' Group, without equal opportunities there is no freedom and even more so if that equality is not given in a strip of zero to eighteen years, which is where the very future of a nation is being created. I'm not worried that we're losing two more years of good education with just funding and adjusted to the changes you need; I'm worried that we're losing another generation. [[Applauds]] In this respect, for abounding in what we have here today, I would especially like to thank the political groups for their contribution through amendments. It was complicated to compose that puzzle from the formal point of view, not from the content. We basically agree with everything we have discussed over the course of the year and a half in the Commission and in plenary; and most importantly, it has been approved by the democratic majority in this country. It's a true paradox. The democratic majority, the majority of the educational community - I would say the vast majority - has been filled with infinite patience for you to do something and do it now, and I look at Citizens in this case because they have the opportunity to lift the veto and act according to what Spanish society and the educational community demand. I would like to reiterate to you that in the motion, apart from this preamble - it is very important to be able to reiterate this vote - there are aspects that we have all shared, many times even in the Commission and in the subcommittee for the pact, which have to do with fairness and quality, but from the point of view of an education that does not secret, that is inclusive, that is shared and that, above all, it favours the incorporation of everyone and everyone into a system that allows us to face the future with that equality of opportunities that you squander and that also imposes on the idea that both parties of freedom to choose, that we know that it will always end up choosing which means to do so. Therefore, a new opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, a new reason for charging us with reasons. Surely the great demand of Spanish society for this pact for education was also an anxiety to end the Lomce, to recover everything we have lost, which has to do, as I said, with equity, with quality. I end with something that I particularly care about, with funding that is able to drive all those changes that Spanish society demands. Ladies and gentlemen of the parties that I know have supported dozens of initiatives, I would like them today to do this exercise of redoubling precisely what we believe in and above all and most importantly what our country's education needs. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Trillo. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which will also fix a position on this occasion, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion, which is the result of an interpellation, is repeated in the conglomerate and in the batiburillo, which is already a tradition of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in recent years. You again transfer your phobias to Parliament to work on a state agreement essential to the future of Spain, a ritual accredited after your recent abandonment of the subcommission by the educational pact in compliance with the ultimatum launched by the secretary general of the Socialist Party, Mr Sánchez, committed to accentuating his opposition work even at the expense of blocking and preventing progress in a matter vital to society such as education. In order to ratify their new party model, they abhor the agreement, they drag them into paralysis and, above all, they want us to support an initiative in which they don't even quote schools or teachers. The absence of references on the faculty and on the curricular aspects of the centers is palmaria. We are faced with another socialist show of no and to reiterate all the essentials, even if this means throwing away the parliamentary work that was being carried out in pursuit of an educational agreement essential for Spain. Once again from the Forum we stress that the key elements that cannot be renounced in educational policy are three: students, teachers and schools. Every educational reform has to revolve around these key elements and it has to be the product of a very broad, as broad a pact as possible. The PSOE is essential. Do not self-exclude. The Lomce has turned out to be a bad law, as we predicted since its processing. That is why we rejected it then with our negative votes, because it was unilateral; little was said about schools and school organization, there was no talk of teachers and, as a result, it was not worked to make Lomce the result of this great agreement that everyone is demanding and that is vital to avoid the squabbles in educational policy that end up being harmful and a waste of time and resources. Mr President, my vote will be against this conglomerate motion tabled by the Socialist Group, which rejects the agreement and which, by means of pyrotechnics, seeks to cover up its abandonment of the subcommission by the educational pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u92	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion demonstrates the impossibility of generating a large-scale educational pact in this House at this stage. We have consistently said that this covenant would certainly never see the light, because we detect little interest in generating a covenant and much in generating noise around that covenant. Still, we have sent all the groups our model proposal, because it seemed interesting to us that they would be known by all the groups that were part of that great pact. I insist that we did so with a certain scepticism and with a certain distance, seeing the little will of the large groups in this House to generate an educational pact. What we have done systematically is to set an example once in a while what the Llei d'Educació de Catalunya assumed for the Parliament of Catalonia and for the people of Catalonia. A law where left and right, conservatives and progressives, nationalists and non-nationalists agreed on a great pact that guaranteed the modernization of educational institutions in Catalonia, guaranteed the training of teachers and consolidated a linguistic model worthy of preserving in the opinion of that great majority. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, far from adopting that attitude which led them in the years 2009 and 2010 to generate that great consensus in the Parliament of Catalonia, you are presenting a closed initiative, where you do not accept any amendments and that we, who defend many of the things that you incorporate in that motion, do not allow us to vote in favour. We cannot vote in favour because we cannot support a motion that neither protects nor defends excessively the competences in education that the Generalitat of Catalonia has. Therefore, by not accepting our amendments, we are going to abstain from this initiative, leaving another great opportunity to generate a consensus on education in this House once again. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u94	Thank you, President. This Parliament looks like the day of the marmot. The People's Party and its crutch, Citizens, are committed to prolonging and paralysing all that they do not gain within this House. They paralyze all social demands; today it has been the PAH ILP, on other occasions the autonomous statutes, the LGTBI Act at its time and, as could not be less, the repeal of the Lomce. The day of the marmot. Finally, again to talk about the Lomce, a law that did not want neither the teacher nor the student nor the AMPA, but that PP and Citizens commit themselves to that it does not derogate. To this end, they cling to the subcommission of the State Pact for Education, a pact of State that they clumsy because education matters little to them, and a subcommission in which mysteriously only the PP and its minions, Citizens, are left. Mrs. Heredia, I was saying before that banning marriage could secure the professional future of many women. What assures the professional future is education and contribution. [[Rumors]] The summary of the Popular Party's contribution to the educational theme has been: cuts in educational investment, cuts in scholarships...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u95	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u96	...progressive dismantling of public school, direct public money to private schools, segregation by sex, shielding of religion, elimination of programs against school failure, persecution of territorial languages, elimination of everything that implies civic values and coexistence. That's right, developing an agenda to include defence in primary and secondary. As always, for flags and anthems there is time and money, but to reach agreements on issues as important as education, no. When we talk about working to have a public, free and quality education, then they ally themselves with their crutch, Citizens, so that this looks like the day of the marmot. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlì. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u98	President, Members and Members, good afternoon. Let's get back to it. After a year and a half, start over. On November 15, 2016, I came to this rostrum when the PSOE presented a bill as an alternative to the repeal of the Lomce. The bill was frozen and was implemented in a decree that delayed the revalidation. In my speech to the plenary I said: It is shameful and cannot be understood in any way that we are only proposing to suspend the timetable for its implementation, maintaining what has been done wrong and which continues to harm the whole educational system. There is a sufficient majority in this House to repeal the Lomce here and now. And a year and a half later there's also a majority to repeal Lomce here and now, but they don't want to. Days after this bill there was a decision; People's Party, PSOE and Citizens decided, with the abstention of the other groups, including Republican Left, to make a subcommission to achieve a social, political and territorial pact for education. After eight months of appearances that forced the Commission to extend until May 2018, a fragile and tedious negotiation process began in November that had to end in an opinion that has not occurred, and has not occurred because this process has been broken with the exit of the PSOE two weeks ago, with a People's Party that now does the modern pedagogy of speaking around the corners and decided to pay more attention to Montoro than to the political groups with which it wanted to dialogue. I wonder why it took the PSOE so long to realize that the People's Party was not going to put in enough money. With Montoro's appearance in the Commission months ago, perhaps we would have made this folder close, one more in the already long history that shows how education in Spain is nothing but a hostage to the partisan struggle, and that is because this is a country where education is far from being a matter of state. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u99	Wait a minute, Mr. Olòriz. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u100	I like the participatory media in the classroom, although it is true that some would need a little reinforcement, but it is the same. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. It's not a matter of state. The truth - I say it from the heart - is that the political parties in Spain believe that agreeing on education has too many risks and no advantage, and when the polls appear everyone stops talking about pacts. It is true that the issue of financing is important. It is also true that no funding system could be approved in the subcommission. All the proposals were rejected because of the agreement that it had to be by the three-fifths, and this was approved by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, knowing that no proposal would prosper. Without adequate funding, a pact is not possible. At the beginning, Esquerra Republicana denounced that without repealing the Lomce, without previous social and territorial pact and without the proper means this pact would not have gone through, so we very much regret the frustrated expectations of the educational community for the time spent without effect, for the maintenance of the Lomce. It would seem appropriate not to start again, but to start again well, and this means repealing the Lomce; creating on new bases of respect and participation the activity of the educational community; respecting the competences of the territories and, learning from mistakes, making a pact of truth. We will not return to the wrong path of motions. We're not going back. We'll never go back to the land of never again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, it was 1927 when Zweig wrote this book, Star Moments of Mankind. It took twenty years to portray what, in his opinion, were the fourteen moments that changed the course of history. The social and political pact for education that we signed at the beginning of the PP, PSOE and Citizens legislature may have been a stellar moment in the history of Spain. Forty years had been the PP and primarily the PSOE using education as a bold weapon between parties; ten years had been the PSOE blaming the PP for having risen from the pact that Gabilondo put on the table and that was not signed, and five years ago our boys and girls had been dealing with the chaos and windfall that had generated the Lomce in different communities. On September 26, 2016, Citizens got, as Zweig would say, the stellar moment for parliamentarianism because for the first time we convinced the PSOE and the PP to sign an agreement to open a subcommission in Congress in which all political groups in the Chamber would talk about education, and the most important thing is that it was not only our political will, it was the will of a large part of the educational community, of public opinion and above all of common sense, which demanded that a pact be made in this country such as that which had been made, for example, in Portugal. It's been a year and a half, we've had eighty-three attendees and some debates, believe me, especially relevant on important issues within the subcommittee. Regrettably, in an unprecedented exercise of irresponsibility, the gentlemen of the PSOE have risen before starting to talk about what is really important and have tried to boost - in fact, they have boosted - the agreement for the education pact. Education is a question of State, it is the question of State that needs consensus. But in order to achieve consensus, in order to achieve agreement, we need working spaces, spaces of dialogue. One question: Why did you sign this petition if you really, as you are saying, knew it wasn't going to work? Why did the Lords of Podemos, who said it was a pantomime, sign this subcommission and say they wanted to be in there if they knew it wasn't going to work? Aren't you the ones who've been doing the pantomime all this time? [[Applauds]] Citizens do not give up the educational reform because it is the future, the opposite of the future is the old and the opposite of negotiating, of fighting, of pacting is to get up from the table without fighting at point two, putting pilgrim excuses even before generous proposals such as those that we have put on the table, where surrealistically the PSOE has refused to accept the economic proposal of Angel Gabilondo that the PP has accepted. It is absolutely surreal: the PSOE rejecting the PSOE. The new PSOE has rejected the PSOE and you have returned to the maximalistic and inflexible formulas that have kept us in the blockade for forty years. With all due respect, what a shame! What an old man! What a longing they have for bipartisanism! [[Applauds]] They're still entangled. If eleven years ago the PP did not want to sign the agreement for the pact by not giving the medal to the Socialist Party, now the Socialist Party cannot bear above anything that someone draws an educational agreement because they believe that education is theirs. Bipartisanism has understood nothing. If we achieve a pact for education, the medal is not yours or mine, the medal is from the educational community, from public opinion and from the future generation. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, I'm going to give you two bad news. The first, although not believed, education is not yours and you do not represent many people; and the second, your attitude in these weeks, unfortunately, delegates you to be able to lead an educational change. There each one with his conscience and his constituents. This motion that they bring us is another exercise of political cynicism to which we are already accustomed. They use education again in a propaganda act, but the most serious thing is that this time they do so with an amnesia attack. You refer to your bill of 9 December. Have you read it, gentlemen of the PSOE? Have you read your own bill? I don't think so, because that proposition of law what it says are two things that already got Citizens; first, to paralyze the Lomce in those aspects that would not have entered into force - gentlemen of the PSOE, wake up, that is paralyzed -; second, to establish a negotiation pact to make a new educational law; the pact that you have just abandoned by rising from the table. This is absolutely incomprehensible. You don't ask to repeal Lomce. Read your bill, read it, and encourage the rest of the Chamber to read it, because I have read it to myself. In their obsession with getting more We can do that of Podemos, what they do is bring us a proposition for which they don't need to do more numbers, what they need is to sit back in the educational pact and negotiate all the issues that bring us here in an agreement of tranquility and pact. Go back to sanity; I told you last week. They want to wash their conscience with absolutely useless motions. Do you want to be helpful? Sit with us, help us to get the government out of the People's Party and put them into action. You want to be helpful? Sit down in the educational pact and fight with us again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u104	Thank you, President. I want to begin my speech by reminding and conveying my condolences to the family and friends of Mame Mbage, the companion kept deceased last week in Lavapiés. [[Applauds]] Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating here today a motion by the Socialist Party that is very quieter than it says and that needs a little context to get it right, so let's make a little memory. In December 2016, this Congress gave the starting gun to the subcommission for the State Education Pact with the support of the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Citizens, and we made it clear from the outset: a subcommission is not a state pact, because basically a state pact has to do is to collect large consensuses that are already present among the people of our country, and in the educational sphere that consensus was already clearly indicated, the Green Sea clearly pointed out, the hundreds of thousands who went out to the street to ask for the repeal of the Lomce and the halting of cuts and all those people who participated in the more than forty educational strikes that have taken place in Spain since 2012. [[Applauds]] However, it was clear from the outset that the People's Party was not going that way. I am sorry that Mr Méndez de Vigo is not here today, because basically what he has done with this subcommittee has been to buy time to continue applying Lomce, to bleach Lomce and to continue applying and crystallizing those cuts. After more than a year of work in this subcommission, with eighty appearances and 180 hours of debate and discussion, the education pact has gone dead. Why did he go on dead track? Because basically because the Socialist Party handed over the key of the pact to the People's Party, it made all the conclusions of that subcommission have had to count on the support of the People's Party. The Socialist Party has prevented the visibility in this House of something that knows all about Spain, and that is that there is a majority in this House that wants to shield 5% of GDP investment in education, and that by 2020, not for ten years. [[Applauds]] What happened after the Socialist Party handed over the key to the pact to the People's Party? As the government presented a ridiculous investment in education, it said it would reverse half the cuts there by 2024. I trust you, ladies and gentlemen. Then the Socialist Party took its hands to the head and began to make scarecrows, but you cannot make scarecrows, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, when it is you who have prevented this House from positioning itself to bet on 5% investment in GDP in education. Did you really think that the People's Punic Party, the People's Party that paid Alejandro de Pedro to discredit the Green Sea on the Internet, would be the one to commit to public education? It was obvious that no, it was obvious that the People's Party is only committed to the Punic to dismantle public education. [[Applauds]] This has been the story of a failed pact. We have done what is impossible for this pact to be shared by people, because an act of state makes no sense if it does not have people in it. We have asked for the minutes to be published, the debates to be streamed, and yet they have made it impossible for us to do so. You have come to tell us in that subcommission that if people knew about the debates we had they could influence us on the conclusions. Well, yes, indeed, what we want is for people to influence our conclusions because here we are to represent the will of people. [[Applauds]] So we, by the hand of the citizenry and the educational community, have decided to put an end to this paripé. We have lost a precious year to repeal the Lomce; we have lost a precious year to bet on a public school of quality, inclusive, secular, for all and we will not allow them to waste more time. No more subcommissions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; no more motions, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because while you were wasting our time in that subcommission, in this country there are still boys and girls like those of Villaquilambre, in León, who continue to study in barracks, while we continue to fund with public money schools that segregate boys and girls by sex. [[Rumors]] We have 22,500 teachers less...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u105	Wait a minute, Mrs. Belarra. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u106	Thank you. During all this time we have been lost in the subcommission, as I said, there have been 22,500 less teachers in the public since the corrupt party ruled in Spain, and public classrooms are closed while the concerta continues to grow. The interim rate in Spain is 26%, one of the highest rates in Europe. Thousands of interns and interns are now going out on the street to tell them that their conditions are extremely precarious. A companion like Ana, acting in Castile-La Mancha, has been working as an interim for fifteen years and carries behind her no less than twenty-one educational centers, half a million kilometers, two cars spent, 63 000 euros spent on rent. Does this seem normal to you? Because it doesn't seem normal to me. It's time those interns who don't pay summer, who are here today, call them on the phone, pack and tomorrow they have to be in a square in Cuenca, find here an answer. What you have made, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as usual in Spain, is not normal. And we make it clear to you: it's not normal. We are going to work to bet once and for all on the public because we are proud of the public, the only education capable of guaranteeing equal opportunities in our country. [[Applauds]] We are proud that teachers can have stability and confidence to do their job well and we want families not to have to choose a centre because the school in front of their home, a public school, is of the highest quality. I am for you, Father; you are for me. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Belarus. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Diez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the Socialist Group's spokesman last Wednesday and following his spokesman's speech today, I can only express what has already gone from being a suspicion to becoming a reality. You submit this motion to the plenary because you need to run a smokescreen in order not to justify the unjustifiable: you have jumped, you have given the scarecrow of the educational pact. And they have done so after a year and a half of work; after eighty-three participants compromised their time, their will and their proposals; after the Government, ladies and gentlemen, paralyzed the implementation of the Lomce for the sake of creating the best climate of understanding; after all the autonomous communities agreed to work in the Senate and the General Education Commission in a report that would improve our agreement; after the State School Council - yes, ladies and gentlemen, the School Council - is also working to advance with its opinion the proposals of the educational community. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, have also gone on to reject the advice of your own people, of whom you have been and continue to be a reference in your party. They have marched to disdain Spanish society, shocked to see how they squander a historic opportunity to achieve once and for all the agreement. They have given way to the pressures of those who have neither been nor are and will be a party of government. But you are a party of government, you have had responsibilities in the government of the nation and you have responsibilities in the autonomous communities. The history of education in Spain - and it seems a lie that I have to remind you - is written, with its successes and errors, with the presence of its party. How can you forget it and give the doorway to a work that was going on with the utmost commitment and effectiveness and the greatest loyalty? Today, they appear here as if nothing had happened, as if the more than 8 million pupils and the 800 000 teachers, who are directly worthy of the agreement, remained outside the reality that we have experienced these months. They come up here with the same old speech, standing up as guarantors of public school. Let me tell you, you and your fellow bankers, what a weak favor you are doing to education in general and to public school in particular by depriving you of a pact from which it was going to be the special benefit. [[Applauds]] Because we all have history, ladies and gentlemen, and your management and management of some of the vice-presidents - for example, in Castile-La Mancha, to which you have referred - sheds the worst early educational abandonment data that the education system has endured. Moreover, the point and end of their responsibilities in the Government of the nation put it with an early dropout rate that exceeded 26% and with a budget cut in non-university education above 23%. [[Applauds]] So, please, a little coherence when they intend to give lessons to the rest of the mortals. [[The lady]] Even so, ladies and gentlemen, and being aware that there are not a few things that separate us, we have fulfilled and have done so because, beyond our legitimate aspirations, there is the defence of the general interest. And the general interest requires that we agree. That is why we changed our initial position, in favour of the fact that the budgetary pact had to be agreed upon once the measures forming the agreement had been determined rather than starting the house on the roof. We modified our proposal because negotiating is giving in and we knew that it was important for you to deal with funding at the start of the work. We made them two offers to get the deal, not one, but two. We offered to incorporate into the education system a floor of EUR 5 billion which, by the way, translated in terms of current GDP represents 4.7%. No one can escape that, if this was the soil, we would in all likelihood exceed 5% of GDP. But as they surprisingly rejected it, we also offered to shorten the times and reach the agreement to increase 1.5 million in the next three years. That is true, subject to the agreement, to the measures that we had to implement and also to the commitment of the autonomous communities that are managing 90% of the budget in education today. You have twice rejected offers that improved that 5% of the GDP to which you cling. But this has nothing to do with funding or improving the education system. Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish society is a mature society, forged through these forty years in which the Spaniards have given the best of themselves, that allows citizens to be demanding with their political class and we agree. The Spaniards won't allow it, and neither will we. We will work until exhaustion to reach the pact, we will remain in the subcommission until the end and we will offer the Spaniards the best agreement for the best society, which is ours. I guarantee you we'll make it. We would like to do so with you, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, but if it has to be without you, it will be so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u110	Thank you, Madam President. This intervention as the last speaker on the last item on the agenda has an advantage and a disadvantage. The advantage is that I've already listened to everyone and the disadvantage is that no one will listen to me anymore. [[Laughter]] We could summarize this matter with the famous phrase in the title of García Márquez Chronicle's book of an announced death that, in addition to being a great novel, fixed the title for a number of issues that we all constantly use. This is one of them. The Basque Nationalist Party, from the beginning, was convinced of two issues: the first, our position against the Lomce, our position not only critical but contrary, from the point of time when it grew to its last consequences, but not only with regard to its application, not only with regard to the invalid, but also with regard to the law itself, how it had been made, how it had developed, how it had developed and how none of the amendments that had been tabled and, therefore, its imposition had been accepted. We therefore, from the outset, were in favour of its repeal. We were also aware that the defence of the Basque educational system, that the shielding of the Basque educational system was our leitmotiv and fundamental basis for action in this area. With all this, you approved the creation of a subcommission; we, no, abstained. Why? Because we did not believe that something could have a future that has been shown to have no future and because, moreover, our scepticism has led us to the conclusion that particular interests have once again prevailed in this series of issues. We do not win anyone, from the outset we set out the bases on which we would or would not participate in this subcommission, which are the following: recognition and respect for the uniqueness and law that Euskadi has and which enables him to draw up, approve and implement laws and his own educational model by rejecting any measures that entail a reduction in competence in the field of education; denouncing any interference and invasion in the field of competence in Euskadi; rejecting the resources that the Government of the State has submitted to the regulations and decisions of the Basque institutions competent in the field of education; and rejecting the standardization and re-centralisation of education. We said to them: ladies and gentlemen of the subcommittee, either we accept this or we will not participate. And we were told: wait a little while, that will already be discussed that topic at a given time. Do not get up because we will deal with that in chapter VIII, on the territorial issue. In short, we wait. What happened? That others, who said not to get up, got up before us. Given that situation, the decomposition of that subcommission has led to all our perspectives and approaches being right. Before this thesis, the Socialist Party presents us with a motion. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u111	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u112	Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, every time I come up here I always say the same thing: you cannot present your electoral programme with twelve points in a motion, nor can we pretend to solve the problem of education or change the educational system with a motion. Do you consider the motion to be the best piece of legislation in order to achieve what you are proposing? I understand your position in raising the motion, I can even share more than one, two, four or five points of which you present in it, but we do not think it is the best system, among other things, because it gives the feeling that you have left a ground on which you did not feel comfortable. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u113	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u114	You have every right in the world not to feel like this, and now you have moved the debate elsewhere, to see if we all dance to a music that you have marked. We can agree with many of your approaches, but we will decide when and how we enter that dynamic because, among other issues, we believe that the change in the education system, as far as Euskadi is concerned, is not going to be decided here, nor will we accept that it is decided here; we will decide where to decide, which is in Euskadi, because we are competent in this matter and because we have the capacity, as we have shown, and we will not accept any other interference. In view of the fact that the subcommission's view has remained, the defence of Euskadi's competences and non-recentralisation are obviously a quimera and our suspicions have become a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u115	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Díaz Trillo whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u116	No, none.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u117	Thank you very much. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun voting. We vote, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the political control of the General Courts of acts and omissions of the Government and the Government in office. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 3 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 205 plus 1 telematics vote, 206; against, 126 plus 1 telematics vote, 127; abstentions, 4 plus 1 telematics vote, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u119	It is therefore taken into consideration. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS OF THE REPUBLIC AND MIXTO, AMNISTIA AMNISTIA, AMNISTIA, AMNISTIA, AMNISTIA, AMNIFYING ACT 46/1977 OF 15 OCTOBER 1977. [[File number 122/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u120	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Groups of Republican and Mixed Left, amending Law 46/1977, of 15 October, of Amnesty. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 336 plus 3 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 93 plus 1 telematics vote, 94; against, 243 plus 2 telematics votes, 245.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u121	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u122	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the debate. First, we voted for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on increasing the age of marriage. We voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 130 against, 203 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u123	It's rejected. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, A state-of-the-art debate. [[File number 162/000569]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u124	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, calling on the Government to hold a state debate on the nation. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 207 against, 129.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u125	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u126	We voted for the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the Government's educational model. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 81 against, 163 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-20-CD180320.u127	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
