ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Rafael Antonio Hernando Fraile of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u2	Madam President, Mr President, my first words are to welcome you and your Government to this monitoring session. This is an interim Government that depends on the support of those who allowed you to win the motion of censure, and this is the issue that is the origin of the issue that I am making to you. What is the price you are going to pay for the support received by the parliamentary groups that have allowed you to be President of the Government? Supports that pass through the populism of Mr. Iglesias, that pass through the support of the independenceists who have given a coup d'état - I remind you - against the Constitution, against the unity of Spain and against the monarchy, and also the support of the PNV or even of the friends of the old ETA. That's why I ask you what debts you have with them and what you are willing to pay. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u3	Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hernando, it is clear that your intervention has not been populist at all. In any case, I will tell you that the commitments of this Government are with democratic regeneration, with the reconstruction of the rights and freedoms that were dismantled during the time of the Government to which your parliamentary group supported, and also with the need to lay the foundations for rebuilding territorial cohesion, damaged during the years of the People's Party government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u5	Mr. Hernando, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u6	Mr President, I see you are not going to answer any of this, but you have already started paying some prices. You have already - and the Government has done so on your behalf - stated that you are prepared to make a change to our Constitution and to modify and distort the rulings of the Constitutional Court. You have already announced, through your Government, that they were ceasing to control the accounts of the Generalitat, which has allowed Mr. Torra to boost the role of the old closed embassies - there too, in the rest of Europe - to attack Spain or also to allow him to boost that propaganda machine, which is TV3. You are even willing to use prison policy to make policy in favour of some. You'll have to explain about this. You can talk about everything you want from the previous government, but the previous government allowed 2 700 000 people in Spain to find a job; jobs that you, when you were in the government, destroyed. That's why the only thing I ask you, although it has already started - as Zapatero also started - by increasing public spending or making public spending announcements that nobody knows how to pay, is that it doesn't end as Zapatero ended, because the Spaniards don't deserve that; you have to do it. And my loyalty and that of my group will be with Spain, with the Spaniards, with the Constitution and with the king, not with you. With you loyalty, those. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u7	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hernando, I think you would have to reflect; I told you in the motion of censure and I repeat it to you again today. This Government is not going to ask for their support, it is not going to ask for loyalty. Do not be loyal to this Government, but be loyal at least to the State. You are a party of government; do not agitate or fuel the territorial aggravation, the territorial confrontation, for that are other parliamentary groups that have not ruled and that are, ladies and gentlemen, much more credible than you.. [[protests]] [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u9	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u10	... not because they have reasons, not because they shout louder than you, because this is neither a question of reasons nor of course of decibels; it is a question of credibility, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. It is not credible that you have approved budgets, that you have ruled over the last few years with those who are now disqualified by the mere fact that you are supporting other political forces, because we are talking about the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Hernando. [[denials by Mr Hernando Fraile]] [[Applauds]] Have a thought. The motion of censure was a time change in Spanish politics, and you have to learn from those mistakes. You have to learn, Mr Hernando, that the strategy that you followed in the opposition against the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, putting small tables throughout the country simply to stifle the territorial aggravation, and also the absence of political strategy when you were in the Government of Spain, has caused us to have a huge territorial crisis right now. [[Applauds]] All I ask of you, Mr Hernando, and what I ask of the People's Parliamentary Group, is that you be as loyal to this government as the Socialist Party was to the People's Party government in the face of the territorial crisis that has been experienced. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Be just as loyal to you. I encourage you to oppose the government of the Socialist Party, I encourage you, but do not oppose it at the cost of further weakening the coexistence between the peoples of Spain, even more among the citizens of our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u11	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: IS YOUR GOVERNMENT AVAILABLE TO IMPULATE EQUAL, INTRANSFERABLE AND REmunERATED PERMITS OF MATERNITY AND PATERNITY FOR WHOM? [[File number 180/00653]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u12	He also asks the president of the government of the deputy Fr. Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, is your Government prepared to promote equal and non-transferable maternity and paternity leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Churches. The road map marked by this Government is known to the House; first, to rebuild the rights and freedoms that have been dismantled over the past six years. Hence the decision of the Council of Ministers to restore the universality of public health in our country, as well as to expand rights and freedoms in relation to gender equality, in relation to paternity and maternity leave. Of course, there are two important legislative initiatives in the House that are under parliamentary procedure. The first has to do with an initiative of the Uniti Podemos Parliamentary Group, which is that of the wage gap, and another of the Socialist Parliamentary Group which has to do with work equality. What I encourage is the House, among all of us, to make the best laws to put an end to one of the main scourges, which is gender discrimination in the workplace and in the workplace. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u16	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, this is the first time I have asked you at a monitoring session as President of the Government, and I am pleased to do so. I think it would be good to start a collaborative journey. You have already seen that the People's Party sounds very radical, but when the People's Party is in opposition it sounds good; I like to hear Mr Hernando whenever he speaks from the opposition. His Government had vetoed eighteen proposals for legislation, vetoed in an infamous manner by the Government of the People's Party; sixteen of those proposals were ours, one of which was our proposal for a law on paid maternity and paternity leave 100 per cent, equal and non-transferable. I would like to ask you here for the support of your Government and the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group so that this proposal can become law. The women of this country, Mr President, have won it; they won it on 8 March in a strike that was historic for our country and for the world, and they have won that the Congress of Deputies set limits to the wage discrimination suffered by women. Let me simply give you two data that join with what we have known this morning of the fall of birth in our country. The first is that in the last ten years in only 2% of the cases men have made use of the transferable weeks of paternity permits. According to the living conditions survey, women spend twenty-seven hours on care for the week, while men spend fourteen hours on care. Surely, if you support us in this bill, the People's Party, Citizens - the cave - will say that United We can place duties on you, but we don't put them on you, are putting it on you by the women of this country and are putting it on you by the people who pushed and bet on a motion of censure. I think we can do historical things if we work together in this country, because people who didn't lose hope, people who thought it was possible to throw out the People's Party deserve it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u19	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you very much for the tone, Mr Iglesias, and I also thank you for the willingness of the United Parliamentary Group We can agree with the Socialist Parliamentary Group to change and reverse, among all, much of the dynamics that have occurred over the past six years, as a result of the People's Parliamentary Group and the support of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group; two parliamentary groups that - as I recall in the House - on 8 March, when feminist movements came out, described feminism as ideological, when feminism should be cross-cutting, because it is defending something as essential as gender equality between men and women, and ultimately ending the discrimination that unfortunately affects half of our country's population. In any case, it is welcome that this is also an ideological debate, because indeed, if we have defended the left, it has been irrefutable equality, in this case between men and women. I fully understand your request. We too have put the proposal for a law on equal work on the table through the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I would also like to thank you for pointing out that we have vetoed eighteen proposals for legislation, many of which are linked to your parliamentary group, and I have already announced to you that this government is going to govern with Parliament and not against Parliament; the previous government did veto and not govern. In any case, I will tell you that from our point of view, and in relation to these two issues, what we want is, one, the intransferability of these permits, and two, the proper remuneration of the permits. I do not know if you know, and I also share it with the House, that next 21 June there will be an important Council of Ministers on employment and social affairs, and where the proposal for a directive on... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DIRECT COMMITMENTS ARE YOU THINKING TO BUY YOUR GOVERNMENT TO THE CORPORATE AND MIDDLE PLACE TO SOLUTION THE SERIOUS PROBLEM OF INFRAFINANCE, WHICH PATTERNS VALENTIANS AND VALENTIANS, AS AND AS YOU ALSO RECOGNIZED IN THE DEBATE OF DEFENCE OF YOUR CANDIDATION TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PRESIDENCY WHERE YOU HAD SOCIAL COHESION? [[File number 180/00658]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u21	He also asked the chairman of Mr Joan Baldoví Roda of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, two weeks ago you said here, you recognized the serious under-financing problem faced by Valencians. He also said that the Valencian Autonomous Community is clearly underfunded, and that it would try to lay the groundwork for updating the financing system as soon as possible, because you, like us, are for social cohesion. Yesterday he threw a jar of cold water when he said in the Senate that he could not reform the funding system, and that there would only be improvements. That is why we ask him what commitments, I insist, firm commitments, he intends to acquire his Government in the short and medium term in order to solve the serious problem of under-financing suffered by the Valencians and the Valencians.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. I maintain what I said in the debate on the motion of censure. I maintain that it is necessary to review the system of autonomous financing, because to talk about autonomous financing is to talk about the financing of essential public services that are right now in the hands of the autonomous communities, such as dependency, health and education. I also like, and I am grateful to you, that you have raised your question in these two temporary areas, the short and medium term. In the short term, we obviously need to continue talking and dialogue on how to thoroughly review the system of autonomous financing, but we also need to be aware of the following, Mr Baldoví: in the short term, we need to improve the financing of each and every one of the autonomous communities, in particular the Valencian Community and those that are underfunded. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u25	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u26	Secondly, in the medium term we have to complete the work to thoroughly review the autonomous financing system. Therefore, in the short term, improve funding yes, on the basis of the current model. And in the medium term, change the system of autonomous financing in depth. That is the road map of the current Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u27	Mr. Baldoví, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u28	Look, I'm sorry to say it, but yesterday's statements remind me of Mr. Montoro when he was telling me: we haven't had time - and that model expired in 2014 - or we didn't have money. He had money, but he had other priorities obviously. I would not like you to do the same as Mr Montoro - and I say it from the heart. The Valencian Community - you know - is 12% poorer than the Spanish average, and our fiscal balance is clearly unfavourable, and yet we are in solidarity with other autonomous communities richer than our own. And we are fulfilling, and I say it with a loud voice; we are fulfilling. We spend less per capita than the Spanish average on education, social services and the other services we have transferred. Our debt is 46 billion, every Valencian and every Valencian when it comes to the world owes 9600 euros, and that is basically the product of this underfunding. Therefore this model is already unfair, lapsed, abusive. You cannot go - as yesterday - to the Senate and say that you want to exhaust the legislature and that you will not be able to reform the funding system. The work of the expert committee, the technicians, has ended. So it's time for politics, it's time for politicians, and you can't make a Montoro for Valencians and Valencians. It would not be fair, and we do not sincerely vote for you, Mr Sánchez, to do the same as the People's Party. That's why we're asking you...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u29	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please! Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u30	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. I thank him for saying and remembering that it is time for politics, and we must therefore remember that we must be ambitious, but we must also be realistic. We are ambitious, we are proposing the improvement of each and every one of the autonomous communities in the area of financing. With each and every one of the presidents and autonomous presidents we will meet to improve that funding, but we must also be realistic, Mr Baldoví, and therefore not lie to the citizens. This government is not going to do it. We will improve autonomous funding, but the in-depth review will only be able to culminate in the next parliamentary term. Look, the review of the autonomous financing system would involve an assessment of the real spending needs of fundamental public services, a concrete and data-based quantification of the financial insufficiency of the autonomous communities, an analysis of homogenous competences,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u31	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u32	... an analysis of taxation by each administration,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u33	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u34	... a tax organization in certain taxes, the dynamic sustainability of the model, the distribution of revenue between different levels, an equitable distribution of tax effort among administrations, a modification of the functioning of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u36	What do I mean by that, Mr. Baldoví? Let us be ambitious, but let us be realistic too. [[Rumors]] Ambition with regard to the improvement of the autonomous financing of each and every autonomous community, in particular those that are underfunded, but it is also necessary to be realistic and to complete this model of autonomous financing in the next legislature. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u37	Thank you very much. - THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT HAVE YOU BASISED TO DETERMINE THAT THE 'COORDENATIONS' ARE THE REASONS FOR WHICH THE POINT OF RECEPTION OF THE AQUARIUS BUILDING IS VALUE? [[File number 180/00660]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u38	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 600 immigrants have arrived with the Aquarius this week in Spain, but 1500 have done so on the rest of the Spanish coasts. We are deeply proud of Red Cross, Maritime Rescue, NGOs, State Security Forces and Corpses, who play their lives every day to save the lives of others. They are the real protagonists. When there are people fleeing from poverty and hunger, from terror, we must help them, we must save their lives - that is the first - and all together, in the European Union, with the Africa Plan, making a pineapple from our country. But believe me, we are concerned about why the Government has overstepped so much with the Aquarius issue, which is such a humanitarian issue. Why don't you give the same treatment to the rest of the pateras that reach our shores? Why don't they give information about the forty-three missing on the island of Alboran a few days ago? Why have they used the coordinates to designate Valencia as the nearest port when it wasn't, Your Honor? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u40	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rojas, thank you for the tone. A greeting among Andalusians, in this House that represents the sovereignty of all Spanish and Spanish. These days the Government of Spain - coordinated with all the non-governmental organizations, also with the Government of the Generalitat and with the international bodies - we have only done what it had to do: to comply with our international commitments, which are legal, that is, binding, and to behave as a Member State of the Union in the obligations that Europe has. Just that. There has been no over-action, there has been a clear and supportive response to a humanitarian crisis, as you very well reported. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u42	Mr. Rojas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u43	Your Honor, you are not going to hear from us any criticism in humanitarian matters, just union. But what we do not want - and we blame him there - is a political blow from Mr Sánchez. No, no, You cannot use the arrival of a boat as a festival of political varieties, with two ministers waving a flag of heritage in a port while waiting for a boat. That can't be done, Your Honor. Our Navy has saved over 15,000 lives in the past two years. Only the frigate Queen Sofia rescued 4000 people, and there, in the port, there was no politician waiting, there was no reality, there was only responsibility, Your Honor, the responsibility we now ask of you. [[Applauds]] You coordinate this government and we already know that it is an impossible task, because you have agreed with radicals, with whom you want to break Spain, and in a week you have been dismissed by a minister for fraud, another minister is accused. And in immigration first they say that the arrivals in Valencia will have a special permit, then they say they will put a salary, then the Minister of the Interior leaves and says no, that they will have the same treatment as the rest of the pateras, then they say that they want to remove the concertinas and that they do not know how or when. But they do not say that the concertinas were put by a socialist government, Mr Zapatero's. [[Applauds]] Why don't you say that, Your Honor? Immigration is a task for all, help with responsibility and not with realities, Your Honor. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u44	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I understand that you don't understand. But do you know what's going on? That the men and women of this country have understood us, they have understood us. They understand that we did not look elsewhere when we were facing a crisis that could sink 630 lives in the Mediterranean. They have understood us in Europe when we have not closed our ports and offered a safe place, which was what we were obliged to do. They have understood us in the rest of the world when they have seen an image of this country that corresponds to its reality, with people, a people who are solidarity, who understand that human rights are compatible with the security of our borders, but not only with the southern border, which is a border of Europe where we are demanding attention, effort and help, because, as I say, Europe is the southern border. This government has not made one more gesture these days and you know it, but I understand that you do not understand it, and the coordinates at which we offered safe port were physically and geographically those of the nearest port, after having closed the ports Italy and Malta, and that France would not have offered humanitarian aid until later. [[rumors]] I understand that you do not understand it and that you reduce it to the coordinates, but this was about human rights that you have not understood. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE PATRICIA KINGS RIVERA, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT IS THE POSITION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN BEFORE THE NEEDED REGULATION OF THE MANAGEMENT SUBROGATED? [[File number 180/00651]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u46	Question by Mrs Patricia Reyes Rivera, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u47	Good morning, Vice President. You've launched the charge by offending many families in this country. Do you maintain that surrogate pregnancy is - and I quote your words - a sale that uses the body of poor women? [[Several Members: Yes!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u48	Quiet. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u49	Mrs Reyes, I have opened this post in compliance with the Law 14/2006 of my country to rajatabla, with which I also agree. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u50	Mrs. Reyes, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u51	The least we can ask of a minister of equality is to be respectful of everyone. Every time you use certain terms you are insulting many families and are also targeting innocent children who may be harassed in school. When you talk about the sale of babies and the exploitation of women referring to our law you are simply lying. He lies, and lies in a matter as delicate as this is unacceptable. Do you know why you are not seriously addressing this debate, which is what you should do? Because it's a challenge to your prejudices. [[Applauds]] You intend to silence them with dogmas, generating alarmism, talking about dramas in countries where human rights are unfortunately not respected. Nothing to do with what we stand for. Precisely to put an end to that, what needs to be done is regular. Other countries such as Canada or the United Kingdom have already done so. That is our model, the model of Citizens, an altruistic model where women make that decision with total freedom, women over twenty-five years of age who have accredited economic sufficiency. [[rumors]] Put aside your prejudices, listen to families, listen to those women, listen to their reasons, because generosity also exists, even if it is so hard for you to believe. What I don't understand, Minister of Equality, is that a woman who claims to be a feminist denies the freedom and ability to decide other women, calling them wombs, modifying them, regardless of her brain. [[applause]] You're not who to protect women, what you have to do is listen to them. Today you have the opportunity to ask forgiveness and rectify, listen to all these families, because, Mrs Calvo, with your prejudices you exclude part of society, you exclude the LGTBI collective, you exclude families with fewer resources that can not leave Spain, you exclude women who have suffered cancer or other disease and therefore cannot conceive. Madam Vice-President, stop denying reality, remove the blindfold from your eyes and prejudices from your head. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u52	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you have come here to put a few sentences and we know why, but this is a debate of an ethical scale that cannot resist four sentences or slogans of a question of parliamentary control. What you call prejudices I call rights of minors and women, and you call them prejudices. [[applause]] The minors have been appointed by you, not me. Minors are above all this. You respect that, because I didn't name them. Secondly, Mrs Reyes, I should like you to have this thought in mind: it is only twelve countries in the world that have regulated it. Not the rest. [[Rumors]] And many of them penalized. Think about it. Here's a collision of interests above which are the rights, and I'll tell you which one. I understand, as almost anyone, well and deeply humanly speaking, that there are men and women who have the desire of fatherhood and motherhood, but desire is not the right, and those who do have the right are the women of the world, all, and the boys and girls, and the pregnancy cannot be separated from the birth and the physical and psychological integrity of women, and you know it, because - the Bioethics Committee of our country has said it - the poor women of the world are exposed. [[applause]] You live in the wonderful world of altruism, but I'll tell you something. In that world in which Portugal has wanted to regulate the surrogate pregnancy the Constitutional Court of Portugal has just said that it is not constitutional, that the rights of women and minors are above what you claim. [[Applauds]] However, as I have told you, it is a subject of ethics and of great importance... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u54	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence. - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION: HAVE YOU REFLECTED ON THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES THAT FOR SPAIN HAVE HAD THE FAVORABLE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT THAT YOU FIRMED IN RELATION TO THE STORAGE OF CASTOR GAS? [[File number 180/00663]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u55	Questions addressed to the Minister for the Ecological Transition. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u56	Madam Minister, since you left the Spanish Government many things have happened; for example, an increase in the tariff deficit of EUR 28 billion, an increase of 70% in the bill of light for all Spaniards, and when we believed that only that had happened, the former Socialist Government left us with a load of depth, a delayed bomb that ended up bursting in the form of a failed project: Castor appeared. I'm sure the minister remembers. The Castor project made the Spaniards have to increase the price of energy even more and it was the minister for the current ecological transition that, being secretary of state, signed the favorable impact for that project. Castor has generated earthquakes that have shaken Castellón, Tarragona, the Mediterranean coasts and has also shaken the pockets of the Spanish in the form of an increase in the gas bill. The Castor project has cost the Spaniards the same as ten lines of AVE. Moreover, their decision was the origin of this increase in the receipt of gas, and in their group we used to hear a lot about political responsibilities - although this will certainly now vary with this Government of change, the Government of change of opinion regarding the accused and sure that also regarding political responsibilities - and that, apart from whether or not the decision you made was legal, it was important to assume political responsibilities. That's why our group asks you: do you think you should assume some political responsibility for having positively signed an environmental impact study that generated earthquakes in Valencia and Catalonia and an extra cost to the Spaniards in the receipt of light, or that of political responsibilities we leave it for when the People's Party governs? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u57	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u58	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the question. First of all, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my first words to this House by making myself at your disposal for anything, to manage with full participation and transparency in the exercise of the functions as head of the ministry at which I stand. As you know, your honor, any complex project of these characteristics has enormously extensive processing. In the process and in the execution there are different phases in which many and varied actors participate, and mine was summed up exclusively to the signature of an environmental impact statement. Earlier there was an investigation permit in September 1996, an inclusion in the planning of electricity and gas infrastructure in 2002, an authorization for the assignment of the permit to Escal in 2003 and the inclusion of this facility as an urgent and priority for the security of the gas system. In fact, the processing of the environmental impact assessment was enormously complex and involved more than twenty administrative bodies, research technicians and, of course, all the municipalities and autonomous communities that were nearby. The technicians resolved the integration of all that in a motion for a resolution that was communicated for comments and comments to all these institutions, and no one objected. The declaration of environmental impact was raised as a proposal for my signature - it seems frivolous to me to think that a secretary of state can replace the criterion of so many technical and administrative bodies at that time - and no one appealed it, and I say no one because the usual thing is that practically all declarations of environmental impact are systematically resorted to. Subsequently, Commissioner Potocnik, at the request of Mr Oriol Junqueras, confirmed that this statement had been handled correctly and without any problem; they had found no complications. In addition, MIT and Harvard, at the request of Minister Nadal, confirmed that the environmental impact assessment process had been correct. Obviously, there are many more things about it that can be commented on and that may be left for later, but now what we have to do is deal with what we do with the installation as it is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u59	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u60	Thank you, Minister. We already know that when things go wrong and when bad decisions are made in the socialist government, it is the technicians who are to blame. What I do not know is whether that transparency exercise that you are asking will also apply to those decisions that you have made, from our point of view in clear incompatibility over your position and that of a CNMT advisor, to make a great gift to the electricians in one of your first decisions at the head of the ministry. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u61	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA JESUS MORO ALMARAZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT REASONS ARE THERE FOR YOU TO BE Planning the replacement of the current general tax of the state? [[File number 180/00662]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u62	Questions to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mrs María Jesús Moro Almaraz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u63	Good morning, Minister, welcome to Congress. What reasons are there for you to propose the replacement of the current Attorney General of the State?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u64	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure to be here and to submit for the first time to the control of this House, which represents popular sovereignty. Mrs. Moro, two reasons, one constitutional and one legal. The Constitution, article 124; the law, the organic status of the prosecutor's office, which establishes the grounds for the termination of the public prosecutor's office. Therefore, two reasons: constitutional and legal. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u66	Silence; silence, please. Mrs. Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u67	Of course, Minister, this is the competence of the constitutional and statutory government, but you have lost a golden opportunity to use another instrument that also gives you the status and it is the renewal of a State Attorney General who, with six months, has been declared publicly as a great prosecutor, who has done much for autonomy, even he says the independence of the prosecutor's office, and for transparency. You, in a short time, before closing your ministry, are turning it into a general superfiscal of the monocolor state, of friends... You well know that justice is much more than prosecution, it is much more than prosecutors, and you have missed the opportunity to give greater strength to impartiality, to the independence of the judiciary. For months, and here there are witnesses and the Journal of Sessions, we have striven to defend the professionals, the prosecutor's office, the procurator's office, in the face of the irresponsibility of opposition groups. However, you have done the institution a weak favor at this time with your decisions and with your proposals for appointment. You, at the moment, have put yourself in the position of having to explain, of having to open the windows and say clearly whether there are particular motivations in the proposal of your partner, of your partner in the Fiscal Council in the elections. If the object is to change and redirect the prosecution's action in proceedings opened for allegedly criminal acts of Catalan secessionism or to speed up the announced but non-materialized closure of the investigation opened to its government partner. As I say to you, you have disappointed the expectations that we could have and should avoid that monocolor line that unites you with the socialist governments of the past and that you are unfortunately closing opaquely in this proposal that we will have the opportunity to put forward. You said that your principles are dialogue and victims. Yesterday you defrauded the victims, and as far as dialogue is concerned, you quote the associations beyond a month. It's not... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u68	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moro, preventively extending doubts about the autonomy of the prosecutor's office or the independence of judges in the judicial exercise may be an option, but of course it is not a reality or a good way to begin. The Attorney General of the State which has been proposed - the favourable report of the General Council of the Judiciary arrived yesterday - will pass and submit to the Commission of Justice, where you will be able to hear it, and all of you will be able to observe your great professionalism and your great capacity. This Government, in relation to justice - I say this here and now - will respect the autonomy of the prosecutor's office and the independence of the judiciary, the judges, in their judicial exercise, and will respect it, among other things, so that we will not be pulled out of our ears again as happened with the previous Government, which was pulled out of our ears in the Greek report because it turns out that there was no transparency or independence. One of the key issues raised by this Government is transparency in the Government's instructions to the State Attorney General. There will be transparency and public scrutiny. Our job will therefore be to preserve that independence and autonomy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u70	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT DOES THE RESPONSE OF THE TAXATION TO THE JUNE 17/2018 SENTENCE NUMBER, OF 1 JUNE, OF THE NAMED 'CASO ALASSAUA', PRETEND THAT THE CONCUSSION OF TERRORISM DELITS IS IMPUTED? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00668]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u71	Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u72	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment. At the July 12th control plenary last year, we asked the government for its opinion on the prosecution's qualification as a terrorism of the assaults and injuries suffered by two civilian guards and their partners in Alsasua in 2016. Now, after a sentence has been handed down, I ask you what opinion they deserve from the prosecution's appeal again claiming that the accused are charged with the crime of terrorism.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u73	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u74	Thank you, Madam President. You will understand, Mr Legarda, that you are unable to give an opinion and that you are not going to give an opinion on the appeal brought by any prosecutor. I didn't do it when I was a prosecutor, at least I wasn't publicly speaking about the prosecution's action, and now, as Minister of Justice, I'm not going to do it either. I will respect the prosecutor's autonomy in these legal decisions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u75	Mr. Legarda, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u76	Thank you very much, President. Minister, in this appeal it is argued that ETA's fabric still exists today and that Alsasua's facts are terrorism, as they are a violent act for ideological reasons consistent with one of ETA's dynamics: the expulsion of the Basque Country from the Civil Guard. And the same happens in another appeal dated 11 June, in which the prosecution describes the public disorders of March 2017 in Pamplona as a continuation of the strategy that ETA pre-established for the kale borroka. In both cases it is claimed that organizations may disappear but what they do remains as the mass front of ETA remains active. That is why the announcement of the dissolution of ETA on 3 May is even qualified as an alleged dissolution. Does the government share this view? I ask you, Minister, because for this parliamentary group, and for Basque and Navarra society in particular, it is highly worrying, as Mr Garzón has written, the trivialization in the prosecution's dome of the National Court by calling terrorist conduct anything but terrorism, except in the mind of the fiscal accusations. You will understand that in view of this serious panorama of how to interpret the Criminal Code and terrorist activity, and other cases that I will not comment on but which are in everyone's mind, it is very difficult for us to support the eventual transfer of the investigative phase from the judges to the prosecution in the reform they intend to promote in the Criminal Prosecution Act. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u77	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Legarda, my job is not to give an opinion on open processes - as you said, there is a pending appeal - but to provide judges and prosecutors with the means and tools to carry out their work. In any event, we agree that the declared facts, as proved by the judgement of the First Section of the Criminal Chamber of the National Court, are serious facts and have had an important and serious penological response. This is the only thing I can highlight right now. We can agree with that factual account that points to serious facts that have led to this serious penalty. We agree on that, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs SUSANA LÓPEZ ARES, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: SHARE THE OPINION OF OTHER MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE TAXAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE EXMINISTRY OF CULTURE AND SPORT, MAXIM HUERTA? [[File number 180/00661]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u79	Questions now addressed to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mrs Susana López Ares, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, last Wednesday we learned that a colleague of yours from the Council of Ministers, the former Minister, Mr Huerta, set up a company with a single objective, defrauding the Spaniards and not paying their taxes, so he had been convicted in a final judgment. A defrauding minister whom Mr Sánchez encouraged to be calm; to whom Mr Sánchez told him that it was not important for him to be defrauded, that transparency was important. This defence was also carried out by other members of the Council of Ministers. That is why, Minister, I ask you whether you believe that this defrauding behaviour can be justified by your fellow government officials. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u81	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to greet all the members of the House and make myself at your disposal as a member of this Government. I have to tell you, Your Honor, I think the facts speak for themselves. This Government responded decisively to this situation; I therefore believe that the assessments remain in words when they are not accompanied by immediate actions or facts. In the case that we are dealing with today's question, the case of the former Minister of Culture, immediately forced his resignation, resigned his post, and you know that that role was also renewed by the person who occupies that responsibility today. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u84	This Government is committed to exemplary public life; it has done so and will continue to do so in the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u85	I beg all your lordship's silence. The floor is given by the Chair and only by the speaker. Mrs. Lopez Ares, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, for the People's Parliamentary Group it is very serious that a minister has defrauded the Treasury, but it is even more serious than Mr Sánchez's government, that Mr Sánchez's party and that Mr Sánchez's Socialist Parliamentary Group has tried to take away the importance of a minister knowingly setting up a small shop in order not to pay his taxes, and I refer to his statements. Mrs Lastra, number two of the PSOE and spokesman for the Socialist Group, you said that it was not important because it had been resolved for a long time. Or the Minister of Employment, who also said she was aware of the payment. Or Mrs González-Sinde, former Minister of Culture, who said that tax fraud is a way to save money in times of fat cows to have it in times of thin cows. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, Mr Huerta has indeed already resigned, but there is something very important and worrying, the serious thing is that you have come to the government with a motion of censure based on a lie. You come from regenerators, we do not know very well what, and you have sat down a fraudster in the Council of Ministers and you have sat down today a defendant in the Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez said a few months ago: I will not open ministerial offices to accused criminals. You have opened them up to a fraudster and still have an accused in the Council of Ministers. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u87	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Actually, Mrs López, it costs work, in terms of democratic regeneration but also of mental health, listening to a member of the People's Party talk about taxation, talking about fraudsters or talking about unethical behaviors in relation to taxation. [[Applauds]] It is, at the very least, paradoxical, as you led a fiscal amnesty that was later made clear by the Constitutional Court in what terms it had occurred. It is an issue on which all those who are engaged in political life have to do pedagogy and we have to be exemplary, as has been the case in this Government. Your Honor, in the area of taxation or compliance with the law, all members of this Executive and all members of this House should note not only that it is legally binding to comply with these issues, but that we also have a social role to play in the exemplary nature of our behaviour. In this Government, when certain circumstances have been known, action has been taken, and I would like, Sir, to have the same efficiency and speed in the People's Party when situations are discovered or detected that depart from legality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u89	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ALBERT GARZÓN ESPINOSA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM MAY IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT REVISE THE GOVERNMENT OF GASTO AND THE BUDGETARY LIMITATIONS THAT IMPIDATE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS TO EFFECTIVELY TAKE CARE OF CITIZENSHIP? [[File number 180/00650]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u90	Thank you very much. Question now by Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u91	Thank you very much, President. First of all, welcome, Minister. Is this government going to review the spending rule?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u92	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Indeed, Mr Garzón, one of the most controversial issues in the territorial debate in recent times regarding stability has been the so-called rule of expenditure, one of the tax parameters on which I would like to raise two issues. Firstly, something that seems important to me, this government is committed to budgetary stability, so we will be in the European environment trying to lead a path that allows us to maintain public accounts in the medium term without affecting the provision of public services or the rights and opportunities that citizens have. Secondly, the concrete application that the People's Party Government made of the expenditure rule was, in my view, characterized by two elements; one, the lack of transparency or opacity, since there was no clear formula for contrasting the data that fed the calculation of the rule and that generated uncertainty primarily in the municipalities and also in the autonomous communities; and two, you know it perfectly well, there has also been a request, a logical demand on the part of the municipalities to have a greater use of the evil so-called surplus that would enable the development of public services aimed at citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is committed to reviewing all these matters, that is, respecting the rules of stability, and on the other hand, giving consistency and rigour to the methodologies and creating the working group that President Rajoy committed but never carried out, so that we could all define the best way to calculate the spending rule without affecting current accounts and citizens' rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u94	Mr. Spiny Garzón, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u95	Minister, the problem is that words sometimes hide realities that are quite important. Talking about budgetary stability means talking about many more things. Sometimes budgetary stability is used to talk about the instability of working families, and it is that the rule of spending is really an invention without any foundation that tries to link public spending to a hypothetical variation in the future rather than to do so with political realities and objectives such as, for example, creating jobs, ending precariousness, etc. The real objective of the expenditure rule and the so-called "budgetary stability policy" is to put an end to the social state, to dismantle public services. This is not something I say, it is that the stability programme of the previous government, with Montoro then at the head of his ministry, suggests that by 2020 public spending has to be reduced to 39%. To give us an idea, 2016 was 42%. How, then, is it possible to reconcile this fact and that objective with the maintenance of public services? I say it's impossible. The rule of spending has a very clear political objective and, of course, is a lever for municipalities not to be able to make policies for the benefit of working families and the popular classes of their own municipalities. It is obvious when we have the municipalities with a treasury of more than EUR 20 billion that they cannot use, for example, to meet the employment demands of the municipalities themselves. This is something that needs to be corrected very clearly. In addition, the spending rule is unfair. You know very well that you have achieved last year's deficit targets thanks to the surplus of local corporations and not precisely of the central administration. It is unfair and requires the entire territorial administration to change the financing formula, and this is also linked to the autonomous one. The words that Pedro Sánchez uttered yesterday are a boulder even for your own position, because you yourself announced with United Left, with us, with Podemos and with other forces in the Andalusian Parliament the commitment to reach a joint agreement on autonomous financing and Pedro Sánchez, the new president, seems to have thrown this possibility away. It takes a lot more willpower. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u96	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Garzón, the most important difference in budgetary matters between your political formation and this government and the training that supports you is precisely the commitment to the rules of stability. From there, we have an obligation to understand each other and we have room to find the environment in which we can return those social rights. What is obvious is that the expenditure rule is called to change, to make a collective calculation among all those who participate in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u98	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN CAPDEVILA I STEVE, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT PROVIDED FOR? A REDUCED TYPE OF VALUE TO SOMEONE NEW PRODUCT OR SERVICE? [[File number 180/00656]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u99	Question by Mr Joan Capdevila i Esteve, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u100	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, welcome. Our group believes that women's intimate hygiene products, such as pads and pads, must have a minimum VAT because they are so necessary, as are baby and adult diapers or condoms to prevent sexually transmitted diseases or unwanted pregnancies. Also, the products and services for dependent persons should have it as a necessity and care for dependency a right. On the other hand, we find it miserable that a reduced VAT is not applied to funeral services and that the State intends to profit and continue to express itself after our death. Gandhi said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way it treats its animals. From this point of view, Spain remains in absolute evidence when it is legal and a reduced VAT is applied to shows where six animals are tortured and killed while they tax by 21% the veterinary services that seek to cure animals and in turn carry out necessary preventive work in the field of public health. Our question is: Does your Government plan to apply a reduced rate of VAT to any of the above products or services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u101	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Capdevila, it is important that we be able to tackle taxes in a comprehensive, comprehensive way and avoid, to the extent possible, dismantling them because they do not cease to be coherent. What do I mean by that? You have made a list of products and activities to which super-reduced VAT should be applied, but we are working, on the one hand, within the European context, where Ecofin has an interest in designing a single European tax area for VAT and that the Member States have similar conditions in relation to this tax. On the other hand - perhaps most directly affecting the Government - is what has to do with the ability to apply the reduced or super-reduced rate to certain specific areas of activity to try to promote consumption. I am basically referring to the so-called cultural VAT and to everything that corresponds to it, and also, as you mentioned in your speech, to products linked to female intimate hygiene, mainly on grounds of discrimination. These elements, Your Honor, will have to be addressed - I insist - in their entirety, but, indeed, in our road map we have planned, for issues that have to do with the two subjects that I have transferred to them, to abound in the study of VAT in order to try, on the one hand, to encourage consumption and, on the other hand, not to tax women with an added tax on the mere fact that they are women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u103	Mr. Capdevila i Esteve, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u104	Minister, you invoke consistency to be a little vague and a little inconcrete. We started wrong, because it turns out that each and every one of the reductions in the VAT rates that we demand from you have been voted, in coherence and intelligence, by your parliamentary group, by the PSOE Parliamentary Group, in this very legislature. We will keep an eye on their consistency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm glad the expectations about the government are high, Mr. Capdevila, but talking about coherence when we've barely taken possession of ten days ago... I don't think it's required. Another issue will be as time goes by. Then you will be able to see that we are developing the issues that the President himself put forward in his investiture speech. That is right, this government needs agreement with the rest of the political groups in this House. It is essential that we work together and that there is consensus so that we have the capacity, to the extent possible, to implement those issues that we have discussed today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u107	Thank you very much. - of Mr Javier Maroto Aranzábal, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister of the Interior: what will the penitentiary policy of his Government consist of? [[File number 180/00667]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u108	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Javier Maroto Aranzábal, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what are your Government's intentions regarding politics with ETA prisoners and Catalan prisoners politicians? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u110	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u111	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. I asked the question in other terms and in other extremes, simply what the prison policy this Government is going to undertake was. To limit it to specific assumptions - let me say - is to forget about many other prisoners and to forget about prison officials, as you have recently forgotten and in these budgets; budgets that the Government will accept, but in which this minister will try to deal with the demands of prison officials who provide an important service to society. Let us not forget that it is those who are there performing and exercising the functions prescribed by article 25.2 of our Constitution that ensure that persons who have been convicted of serious crimes can then be reintegrated into society. Therefore, one of the main policies in this area is going to be of an organic nature, trying, in the near future, to ensure that the staff of prison officials go in that direction and that their financial demands are appropriate to those of other officials. We will also work to amend the General Prison Law according to the criteria that have already been established by many professionals in the field. But let me answer that question that you have mentioned, because there is a second question in those terms. With regard to this policy, it is always going to be the principle of legality and, I say again, to bring prison legislation into line with those intended purposes. However, perhaps - you have a lot of time - you can ask me something else. I promise you, in thirty-eight seconds, I'll answer you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u112	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mr. Maroto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u113	Minister, you did not answer the question; you did not even use the vagueness that Mr Sánchez had used in other interviews. Look, your first Council of Ministers was also your first cotton test. The Spaniards were hoping to see what their first social measure was in those budgets; we were hoping to know whether their first Council of Ministers would smile at pensioners or whether they might smile at women, especially those who suffer gender-based violence, or whether they might smile at some unemployed in this country, but no, none of them smiled at their first Council of Ministers. The only ones who smiled were the Catalan Independenceists, because their first decision, their only first decision was to lift the veto of the accounts to the Generalitat, for the rest, to allow free bar, to allow it to be spent on what you already know is going to be spent, on what your government knows is going to be spent: embassies and independent propaganda. You, Minister, are sitting there today, on a blue bench, because you have the support of Mr Rufián, Mr Tardà, Mr Esteban or Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, among others, and many Spaniards wonder why you are sitting there and in exchange for what. It is normal for me to ask this question; it is not normal for you to have no idea where the shots come from in my question. He understands that there are many Spaniards who are concerned that the Socialist Party in Catalonia, in a wake or not, has already spoken at the time of pardoning Catalan political prisoners. That is why I am giving you this reflection, insofar as you can answer in your 20 seconds: do you not think that until very recently the measures affecting the prisoners of ETA and the Catalan prisoners politicians generated the applause and the majority consensus of this House and today only those gentlemen whom I referred to earlier, who are the ones who want to break Spain, and their representatives here, Minister? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u114	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u115	I believe, Mr Maroto, that for two minutes the question must be defined and clarified much more. Reflections could be made many, but I say again: in all respects, improving the conditions of officials and reforming the General Prison Law by adapting it to the Penal Code and the new realities; in the questions you have raised: the principle of legality appropriate to the competing and individual circumstances of each and a lot of dialogue. I would like to point out that the officials who had been locked up for 23 days in prison institutions today have lifted that closure for dialogue... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u116	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN LUCIA MARTÍN GONZALEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, TO PENITENTIAL INSTITUTIONS THE TRANSLATION TO CATALIAN CARDS OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL REPRESENTATIVES PRESS? [[File number 180/00655]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u117	Question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u118	Thank you, President. As you well know, Minister, one of the reasons why we sent him to the opposition was the previous government's disastrous management of the conflict with Catalonia. Fortunately, during the motion of censure we heard Pedro Sánchez talking about distension and dialogue with Catalonia, which seemed to us to be a very positive change from other positions held not so long ago by his own party. So today, in this first session of control of the new Government, we believe that these statements should be made. For that reason, we ask you when you will order Prison Institutions to transfer political and social representatives who are in prison to Catalan prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u119	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. This government, this minister is not going to order, he doesn't order, all he asks is that the law be enforced. I would like once again to mention that the officials of penitentiary institutions, knowing perfectly well the General Prison Law, knowing the prison regulations, knowing the protocols of action and applying them in conjunction with the fundamental rights, the principle of effective judicial protection, etc., which guarantee and must guide this interpretation, will be the ones who will define and propose the transfer in their case. I'm gonna be a little more specific. It has already been stated that when they are provisional prisoners, they are essentially at the disposal of the investigating judge. When the investigative phase is alive, it determines that there are many steps that require the physical presence of the investigated persons, and this implies that they have to be close to the judicial body. Once we can consider that this instruction is mostly carried out, it will be a concrete moment to assess specifically this transfer so that not only proximity to its family environment can be guaranteed, to facilitate communications, but also proximity to the lawyers who assist them, to ensure the correct and full exercise of the right of defence of a State governed by law as in which we find ourselves. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martín González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u122	First of all, I would like to say that we are very pleased with the turn of the script we have seen in your party over the past few weeks, leaving behind the words of Mr.Iceta, who within a few days of the investiture said that it was not the time to move these people, or Mrs.Batet, who said that it was only the judge's question, when the judge himself at a few hours went out and denied that statement. I think it is clear today that this approach depends on prison institutions and that, therefore, the responsibility for initiating this management is yours; in fact, the Minister of Justice said that a couple of days ago. What we add is that, please, do not unnecessarily extend this issue and start acting today. You and I know that for as long as the instruction lasts, if the judge again requires these people, a videoconference or a timely transfer would allow that contact and avoid the suffering that some of these families live by taking trains every week, carrying in some cases very small creatures, so that they can see for forty minutes their family members. What we are asking you today is not just a human rights issue, but the obligation to comply with what is laid down in the Constitution itself and current prison legislation and what the Council of Europe says, that prisoners must be as close to their families and their social environment as possible. Over the last few weeks we have talked a lot about dialogue, we have talked a lot about distension, but it is time to start concreteizing those measures, for which, on the other hand, they know very well that they will have our support. We need facts, because it is simply a question of justice and therefore it is in your hand, Minister. Initiate the procedure for the transfer of persons who are still in prison to Catalan prisons. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u123	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Martin, I think you and I are speaking in substantially identical terms. We are expressly referring to the conclusion of this phase of investigation, as we all reasonably know, although it must be known effectively. Transfers for prisoners, if they are continuous, are a burden - and you can ask any of them - undesirable because of the conditions and circumstances in which they must be carried out. We need to know - and we are working on it - what that procedural reality is. I think we are talking in terms, I say again, substantially identical and I do not like to reiterate myself in the arguments. Our aim is to ensure in these cases the exercise of the right of defence, but not to cause unnecessary harm to persons deprived of their liberty with unnecessary transfers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u125	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs CAROLINA SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATIONS AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT POINTS OF THE WORK REFORM THINKS 'RETOCING' THE MINISTER? [[File number 180/00664]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u126	Questions to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. Question by Carolina Spain Reina, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u127	First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Minister. You have been saying for years that you are going to repeal the Labour Reform of the People's Party, which has allowed Spain to lead job creation in Europe instead of leading unemployment, which was the case before. I remind you that 1500 people went to unemployment with you every day. They were lethal. There's our legacy: about 19 million occupied, almost 3 million more than before. That is the data and with this data, what are you going to do with the labor reform? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u128	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u129	Thank you, Madam President. It is an honour to return to this House, now as a member of the Government of Spain and assuming this new responsibility. Madam Spain, we are aware that we have come to the Government in an ongoing legislature and with a complex parliamentary arithmetic. Therefore, our commitment - as explained by the President of the Government to the social partners last Wednesday - is to eliminate the most damaging aspects of your 2012 labour reform, a labor reform imposed by you, and to work on a new status of workers for the 21st century, because the one we have already dated back to 1980 and, of course, we want to do so with a methodology that should never have been lost: social dialogue and political consensus. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u130	Mrs. Spain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u131	In other words, they will no longer repeal labour reform. Of course, they've already realized that it also works. But they go from cod to cod, they have now recovered the Secretariat of State for Employment, which had loaded it with a pen. The worst is the return to the past. You have put in front of the secretaries of state who at the time froze pensions, left social security in deficit and announced roles for all. It now turns out that his economic reference is Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. What are you guys gonna do? To send 3,800,000 people back to unemployment as they did at the time? The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have never been able to create jobs, so the champions of unemployment and frozen pensions cannot give us lessons from either employment or social security, Your Honor. As for precarious employment, I will tell you one thing: for each temporary job two indefinite jobs are being created. Let's see what you're gonna do. Indeed, wages have to rise in social dialogue. Let's see what you're doing. Of course, employment is not your thing. His thing is the Valley of the Fallen, the historical memory, the rapprochement of prisoners, the Catalan embassies... all those issues that give headlines and give pictures. Employment, pensions, self-employment and rising wages are not his thing. Your Honor, they've left almost 6 million unemployed and found half of them. Do the same when you leave this government and learn from your mistakes, which were many and we all paid for them. And this time, please don't leave Spain in ruin. It's very easy for you, Minister. It is very easy: continue along the path of employment marked by the People's Party and Mrs Báñez. There we will be waiting for you, to talk about employment, to talk about pensions, to talk about self-employment, to talk about rising wages. That's where we'll be waiting for you, on the way to the People's Party job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u132	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u133	Madam Spain, is there a social security deficit with more than EUR 67 billion in the Reserve Fund? You have to have a quilt to say that in this House! [[Applauds]] You are artists of the slogans and juggling data. True, they have created 1,200 000 jobs, but do you know what's going on? That they're precarious. [[Protests]] In 2011, EUR 110 249 million in collection, and in 2017 109 000; that is the figure. Employment, but bad employment. Their labour reform has brought about temporaryity and has triggered short-term contracts, contracts without rights that do not generate protection, mainly penalized women and young people. More than nine out of ten signed since March 2012 are temporary. Undefined contracts have been reduced by 4%. Only eight out of every hundred signed contracts are indefinite. Their contract to support entrepreneurs - a covert temporary contract - accounts for almost 13% of the contracts signed in the last 12 months. Madam Spain, the social partners in this country must be given back their bargaining power. To this end, it is necessary to deactivate the obstacles to negotiating capacity and to prioritise the sectoral agreement vis-à-vis the enterprise agreements. You have generated a disorder that has already been evidenced by multiple judgments and have generated labor conflict with your reform, so right now we are going to take urgent action to reestablish the balance of labor relations in this country... [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL YOLANDA Díaz Perez of the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European United States of America (CGE) can, in a common way, express to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security: what measures will the Government adopt to ensure the adequacy and re-evaluation of all public pensions? [[File number 180/00654]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u134	Question by Mrs Yolanda Díaz Pérez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u135	Good morning, President. Minister, what steps will your Government take to ensure the upgrading and sufficiency of pensions?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u136	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díaz, the Socialist Government, of course, is committed to ensuring that the purchasing power of all public pensions is maintained, simply because we have to comply with our constitutional text, with Articles 41 and 50. We have demonstrated this throughout our opposition with a multitude of initiatives presented in this House and also within the Toledo Pact Commission, where work is being done on the renewal of recommendation 1 and recommendation 2. We want to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions, because it is to ensure, under the principle of redistribution and solidarity, decent pensions, which are the foundation of social justice, of social cohesion and also of social peace. And, of course, we will help to boost the economy of this country. We are talking about about about 10 million people who, with their income, act as genuine economic agents, not to mention that in many cases they support children who are going through a bad situation. They have suffered from the crisis, the pharmaceutical copago, the drugstore, the cuts in the Dependency Act. Then we will fight to ensure the social and financial sustainability of the public pension system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz Pérez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u139	We are faced with a new political time, a political time calling for democratic regeneration but also social justice. If there is anyone who has brought this new political time, it is the women, it is the pensioners, on the street, manifesting themselves; it is the pensioners, from whom we have learned a great lesson. We have learned, Minister, that it is possible. We have learned from them that there are struggles that change budgets. Look, the People's Party was telling us: There's no money for pensions. And with their demonstrations, the money for the pensions appeared. [[Applauds]] But now, Minister, we have a problem, prices in Spain grow eight times as much as pensions, the CPI closed in May at 2.1%. Minister, the question is easy: What are you going to do? Are you going to pay the pensions with the PP agreement at 1.6% or are you going to revalue them - as the pensioners asked on the street yesterday - with the CPI? Second question, minister, we have a problem of pensions that are not worthy in our country. Half of the pensioners, 4.5 million, are in social exclusion. Who are those pensioners? It's the widows, it's the women, it's the agrarians, it's the autonomouss. Minister, our group tells you: In Spain there can be no pension below the poverty line. [[Applauds]] There cannot be, because what it is about is that, in the new political time, growth reaches people; growth has to reach households, growth, now, in a fair way, has to reach our families. Third problem, minister, job insecurity. 48% of workers - 48% of workers - are precarious. Maintaining precariousness is maintaining unworthy contracts and living conditions today, but it is maintaining poverty pensions tomorrow. Millions of pensioners are hopeful, minister; they want a government change that is courageous, that allows them to improve their lives. Minister, please don't fail them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u141	Thank you, Madam President. We are clear that the financial situation of the public pension system at the moment does not go through its best situation, however much Mrs Spain says that we leave everything very badly and they have left everything very well. More than EUR 18 billion in deficits last year - a growing deficit since 2012 - have meant a shrinking Reserve Fund. You have been spending the savings of pensioners in this country, so of course we have to take action now. We are clear that more quality jobs and jobs are needed. I believe that the wage agreement which the social partners are about to sign in this country will be very positive, because higher wages mean higher contributions. Of course, the social protection of unemployed workers must be increased, their contributions increased, the contribution of family carers must be reimbursed and the costs of the system must be reordered in order to eliminate inappropriate costs. In short, there are many tasks to be done. Of course, income must be supplemented through taxes, through General State Budgets, in accordance with Article 109 of the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, and I am convinced that we will do so with social dialogue and social pact. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u142	Thank you very much. - of Mrs Beatriz Marta Escudero Berzal, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: Did she inform the President of the Government about her research by environmental crime when she offered to be a Minister? [[File number 180/00665]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u143	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. First of all, question by Mrs Beatriz Marta Escudero Berzal, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Planas, did you inform the President of the Government that you were charged with an environmental crime when you offered to be a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u145	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission: Yes, I have informed the President of the Government, by offering to be part of it, of the circumstances of this matter, including the position of the prosecutor's office, as, on the other hand, the President has indicated. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Escudero, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u148	Thank you, President. Mr Planas, we do not know whether tomorrow or within a week you will be disputed or not; what we do know and know all of Spain is that you are a minister today and you are accused. Three things, Mr. Planas. The first is that Mr Sánchez announced that if he was president of the government one day he would never have an imputed minister. He is the first president of the Government of Spain to have had a condemned minister and has an accused minister. Mr Planas, you are a victim of the political tyranny that Mr Sánchez has instituted, which has blown up one of the main principles of our legal system of the democratic system of law, such as the presumption of innocence, which is totally devastated, swept away by the political desires that many of you have. Mr Planas, the People's Party does not accuse you, you accuse Mr Sánchez, with the rules of political juries he has imposed. Secondly, you have lynched my political party. You have cast a president of the government who was elected by the Spaniards on the basis of a sentence that did not condemn the previous government and that motivated a motion of censure supported by the lie. What would have happened if Mr Rajoy or any of his ministers had been imputed? Would you have told him to come here to explain himself? Surely not, because no one asked for his appearance to explain or give his version of a sentence. What would you have done if a media outlet had announced that the prosecution was going to withdraw a charge? Would they have stayed calm? No, gentlemen, they would have asked for your resignation. Why do we have to resign from the People's Party and you don't? Why does Mr Sánchez, if he is the one who sets the rules of political jurisprudence, fail to do so? Following his theories, he would also have to resign. And thirdly, Mr. Planas, all of Spain learned that you were accused as a result of a headline in a newspaper saying: The prosecution is going to dismiss Mr. Planas. You said nothing was going to happen, that he was going to be disputed. We've been here for more than a week and the D.A. hasn't disputed you yet, Mr. Planas. This will be well known by Mr Campos, spokesman for the Socialist Party of Justice, who demanded explanations from the former President of Murcia to explain that the prosecution was going to dismiss him. Mr. Planas, you know this is very serious, and Mr. Sanchez too. Do you know why you're accused? You are charged because the Attorney General's Office filed a complaint against you before the investigating judge, and this judge charged you, and the prosecutor did not appeal your complaint. Now it turns out we're waiting to appoint a state attorney general who, what a coincidence, is a friend of the Huelva prosecutor. Does the government think...? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u149	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, you are not to give lessons in ethics. [[Applauds.-Protests]] There's no case. He was neither competent materially nor formally on the matter, nor participated in, nor was he aware of, the facts. [[Protests]] I collaborated with the judiciary when I was summoned, and the prosecutor's office in writing and up to three times, the last one last December last year, pointed out that there was no matter to accuse this minister of anything. I have a forty-year-old service sheet for Spain in politics and public administration, and neither you nor some members of your party are going to stain it with their demonstrations. [[Applauds.-Protests]] For me, this government is a pride and a part of it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u151	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SERVICE: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN THINK LEGITIMAR THE INSTITUTIONAL DECLARED PART OF THE STATE OF CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00652]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u152	Questions to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal of the Citizen Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u153	Madam Minister, first of all congratulations on your appointment. How do you plan to return to the status of autonomy prior to the 2010 Constitutional Court ruling?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u154	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u155	Thank you, Mr. Girauta. This government does not intend to legitimize anything or revisit the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy. What this Government simply intends to do is to explore a line that the Constitutional Court itself pointed out in its judgment - you know it, because I am sure it has read it - when it referred to fourteen nullified precepts, stressing that the annulment of those precepts was not so much a material matter of content, but rather because they dealt with matters not belonging to a statute of autonomy and which had to be regulated by organic law, because they affected all the autonomous communities and could therefore not be included in a statute of autonomy which only referred to an autonomous community. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u156	Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u157	Madam Minister, by the statements you have made and understanding that it may be very soon to form a trial, you have already said some things that allow us to know that you subscribe to the theory that the origin of the process leading to the institutional coup of September last year would be in the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which established the criteria that correspond to that court and which depurated from the statute - indeed very extensive - fourteen articles that the supreme interpreter of the Constitution considered to be outside the Magna Charter. We also know that you seem to have declared yesterday - if not, you can tell me - that the 1978 Constitution no longer represents the vast majority of the Spanish people. That, Minister, which is said by an analyst or journalist during a discussion or in another forum may be of some interest and cause some debate, said by the representative of the Executive who is specifically responsible for territorial issues is serious. It is serious because part of Mr Montilla's party that led a mass demonstration against the Constitutional Court's ruling. It is serious because part of someone from the same party who was sanctioned by the PSOE in this House for voting in favour of the right to decide, that is, in favour of the right of self-determination, which is what euphemism refers to. I think that trying to get here with a reform of the Constitution - which you have also defended - when your group does not even have half the absolute majority and when it is impossible to reach two-thirds or three-fifths established for reform, is too ambitious for its forces. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u158	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u159	Thank you, President. Only by being ambitious can we come to something. If we do nothing, we certainly are not wrong, but we do not bring any solution to the problem we have on the table. [[Applauds]] Mr Girauta, the Government of Spain, since defending the Constitution, the legality, the status of autonomy - of all the statutes of autonomy - and of the whole legal system, puts on the table that we must seek solutions and ways of agreement and calls on the House and the concurrence of different political forces. We have to go back to politics and that means dialogue, which does not mean giving in. It means reaching consensus, which doesn't mean selling. You know it because you're a pactist too. It has reached agreements with the People's Party and also reached agreements with the Socialist Party. The question is whether you are willing to take on the challenge of joining the solutions or whether you want to stay in the trenches to feed electorally on the problem. That is the only question to know, Mr. Girauta. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u160	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, CONSUMPTION AND SOCIAL WELFARE: WHAT IS YOUR POLICY OF NAMES AS MINISTER OF HEALTH, CONSUMPTION AND SOCIAL WELFARE? [[File number 180/00666]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u161	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare. Question by Mr Rubén Moreno Palanques, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u162	Mrs Montón, you have appointed an undersecretary of the ministry who is denounced for prevarication and fraud in public procurement in a macro-ambulance competition of 226 million euros and I believe that this House deserves an explanation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u164	I will explain it to you later, but I tell you to stop dumping trash on this government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u165	Mr. Moreno Palanques.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u166	Look, I don't know if it's garbage, but of course we're concerned that you named a commissioner from the Alzira hospital who intended to throw out 300 workers to bring in family and friends, something that was said in front of an undersecretary, that of his councillor, who described as a troop, parasites, bosses, grateful stomachs, more than 5000 health care workers, which is why he was accused of a slanderous crime against the workers; the same one who fingered his sister as head of section in a public hospital; the same one who hid in the transparency portal of the Generalitat his private clinic and the rent he received, which paid a company that works for the Health Board and which increased his income by 50% since then. Do you think your lordships have ceased it? No; he has appointed him Secretary General of the Ministry of Health. She also appointed an autonomous secretary who irregularly hired her daughter for two years. Do you think they stopped her? No, they dropped her because she was from Compromís; when Compromís said that Caesar's wife had to be honest and also seem to be, and her husband too, it meant that they had dropped Mrs. Monton's husband, who was hired in a public enterprise. Quid pro quo: you stop it for me, I stop it for you. Up to 202 appointments have received a follow-up commission in the Valencian Courts. You have turned, Mrs. Montón, your universal health advice into what is known in Valencia as 'dark placement agency'. If you're going to continue like this, you don't have to go to the Ministry of Health every day. But today yes, today go and see if you will decide to keep this one more minute and in passing sign the transfer of 371 million euros that you say correspond to the attention for displaced people in the Valencian Community. If he doesn't, he will have deceived the Valencians and the one who will have to give an explanation is to all of them including their fellow bankers and government partners in Valencia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u167	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u168	Mr President, you are asking me about the appointments and, therefore, about the team. I have to tell you that I am proud of all the work that the people of the team have done at this time in the Valencian Community because thanks to this work they have allowed us to return universal health care, it has allowed us to eliminate the pharmaceutical coffers to the pensioners, it has allowed us to be the first to treat all patients with hepatitis C, and it has allowed us to return for public health the model of privatization of the PP intended for the business of a few to the detriment of the general interest, despite its attacks. [[applause]] And now you bring us here the same canteen as your teammates from the Valencian Courts. But look: surely because these are people engaged and with values you do not like; but I assure you that the Spaniards will come very well. And I finish with one question, let me say something to you with humility: On this subject, Mr. MP, be careful; I say this because from the community of which we both come only in Sanidad there are five imputed counselors - one already in prison - and where too many of your colleagues - I cannot tell all the names because the time is up - are in prison. So a little shame, honourable Member, for the destruction, for everything they have destroyed and also for the enormous damage they have caused to the credibility and decency of the institutions. [[applause]] A little shame, Mr President, and above all prudence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u169	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the questions addressed to the Government. Firstly, an inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left into the political situation in Catalonia. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for his defence. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary is not finished, the plenary continues, and I ask you that if you leave the Chamber, you do so in silence. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a place for greetings or farewells, it is a place for the speaker to speak. Go ahead, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few minutes ago I was talking to Congressman Simancas, who was coming to debate, to inform me of a question - what we normally do all Members - and my answer was: try to listen to me now and, above all, listen to what Minister Batet says. I mean, is there any chance that you and we can get along? Yeah, it depends on what they do. What we're not going to do is let ourselves get caught, what we're not going to do is let them try to get us back into a shoe cage. [[The Lord]] So since we are older and in the last eight years in Catalonia many things have happened and, moreover, because we know and have affirmed that a Socialist Party government supported by Podemos will always be much more dialogueal than a People's Party government supported by Citizens, when we are asked what we expect from this government, the answer is dialogue. The word dialogue is the word trunk. In fact, why is it truncated? Because any pact of the people who have been, of those who are and of those who will always be are the result of a process of dialogue. Negotiation is the product of the pact, but without dialogue there is never a pact. Therefore, we must bear in mind, above all, what is the price of non-dialogue, what is the price of burying the pact. The great mobilizations that took place in Catalonia from 2010 onwards in favour of self-determination would have had to involve in any democracy the initiation of talks. The Spanish Government at the time dismissed it, rejected it. I remember that the demonstration of 1.5 million people in 2012 was the fourth news. Look what the Spanish imaginary is. The demonstration in 2012 of 1.5 million people was the fourth news in the Spanish Television news. Why do I now remind you of all this and other things that we already remind you of on the day of the debate on the motion of censure? Why do I remind you of that? Because, look, at that time, in the demonstration of 1.5 million people of the year 2012, there were people like Rubio Llorente - who you have on the political and academic altars, and we too -, former vice president of the Constitutional Court and former president of the Council of State, who already defended at the time - of course nobody heard it - the constitutionality of the holding of the referendum, although not in the way that Catalonia had presented it. Then this man called for dialogue and also warned, and I quote textually - because I think it is worth quoting textually Rubio Llorente, person whom you always, always quote, sometimes forgetting quotes like the one I will now read to you -: The refusal to convene the referendum not only generates frustration, but can lead to the search for alternative ways of unpredictable effects such as plebiscite elections. Look at what vision of the play Rubio Llorente had. Did someone listen to you? No one, no one listened to him. His approaches were ignored and the majority of the Catalan people had no choice but to opt for the plebiscite elections, whose majority result led, not to the insurgency, not to the insurgency, not to the coup d'état, which is the theory of some political parties, led us to civil disobedience: millions of people going to demonstrations or voting on 1 October, or institutional disobedience: convening a referendum or, if necessary, approving the declaration of independence in the Catalan Parliament. Then the question is: are we facing a great opportunity? Why not! It's possible. We may be faced with a great opportunity; an opportunity to resolve the constitutional conflict between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia, a conflict that arose because the Constitutional Court violated the procedures set out in article 152.2 of the Constitution. Since the 2010 judgement, the Spanish Constitution no longer has the consent that the Catalan people granted it in 1978. Therefore, we welcome that the other day Mr. Pedro Sánchez for the first time - perhaps some of you did not realize, perhaps - after years of fighting us from this rostrum, for the first time he acknowledged and said, in reply to this spokesman, that the current Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia is not the one that approved in referendum the people of Catalonia, for the first time! For the first time you recognized him. So we've made some progress. Then are we faced with an opportunity? We'll try. We'll try. We have repeated on many occasions that, even if the motion of censure had not triumphed, our position would be the same: to call for dialogue. You, Mrs Meritxell Batet, as a Catalan, know that in the transition there was a political recognition of Catalonia, as a political subject, thanks to the fact that the statute of autonomy as the first exercise of the realization of the right to self-determination was part of the demanding core of the Assembly of Catalonia, and certainly in 1978 it was recognized Catalonia as a political subject. Otherwise, how is the concept of nationality understood? But what was claimed in 1978 has re-emerged, we are talking about the right to self-determination. In short, we understand that Spain has no right to detain Catalonia against most of its citizens, because if not, what would we be talking about?, would we be talking about the right of conquest? Can anyone defend today in the 21st century at the heart of the developed world, which is Europe, where everything begins and ends in democracy, that democracy exists without the consent of the citizens? We understand that the difference between a despotic government and a civil government lies precisely in the consent of the citizens. Then you also know that Catalonia is a peaceful people and you know it as a Catalan and as an academic. Moreover, he knows as a Catalanist that the DNA of Catalanism has always been the will to resolve conflicts in an agreed manner. In fact, in a State of the European Union it is only intellectually and politically possible to imagine a conflict resolved in an agreed manner. If we reject the pact, and dialogue beforehand, we are ninging history, we are criminalizing citizens and we are executing repression, which is the scenario in which we are now with political prisoners in the Kingdom of Spain and exiles. As Catalan you also know that the Catalan people have demonstrated a great capacity for resistance. We have resisted and have not denationalized sufficiently to disappear like other nations without a State. We have safeguarded the language and, moreover, I have the impression that we have been able to propose even a project - in history it has not been the first time - regenerationist for Spain, since it is evident that the democratic quality of the Spanish State depends on how you resolve the constitutional conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. How do you understand the transaction you voted with the People's Party yesterday? It does not talk about fostering dialogue and does not talk about promoting coordination. Do you know what the verb is used at all points in this transaction? Defend. You say: Defend the unity of Spain as a nation. Defend national sovereignty and respect its integrity in the face of any attempt to referendum secession of a part of the national territory. Where are you? What stage are they on? What do you come to ask me, Mr. Simancas? What comes to me that you are not able to use only propository verbs? Defend what and against whom? Defend yourself from the Democrats? Are we not as democrats as you? Who do you defend? As I want the interpellation to clarify where we are, and in view of the fact that the time is up, allow me to make this interruption as brief as my commitment to listen to you now and then you will continue to listen to me, since next Tuesday we will have to vote on what I am going to tell you at the end of this second intervention and that it will be fundamental for Mr Simancas - forgive me, Mr Simancas, because we have always had a wonderful relationship with you and me -, so that it is clear to whom I am referring, know what to stick to regarding the Republican Left, just as we do, depending on what is approved on Tuesday, which I am going to comment on, we will know who we are facing or who we can understand. So, in a few minutes, I'll continue with the second part. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Tardà, ladies and gentlemen, in times of difficulty hope is growing and we have had a long time of difficulties in Catalonia, so there is a great deal of hope to which we must respond and not just the Spanish Government, but all of us. The only way to respond to hope and bring it to fruition is through dialogue and agreement. That is why I propose that we agree at least one rule in the way we try and dialogue - I propose it to Mr Tardà and extend it to the rest of his group - reciprocity. For example, you and I are deputies for Barcelona, for the same province. We have been voted citizens of the same peoples, of the same cities, of the same streets and even of the same families; citizens who in some cases think like you and in others like me, and in the vast majority of cases do not think like you or like me, but in a different way, so we both know that none of us can speak on behalf of all the voters in Barcelona or Catalonia, that neither you nor I can praise the representation of the whole of Catalonia because Catalan is precisely a plural society in all its aspects and especially in politics. It is important that we remember this because, if we forget that plurality expressed in this and in all parliaments, our conversation becomes sterile and exclusive. If I spoke on behalf of all Catalonia, you wouldn't believe me, it wouldn't be credible; for the same reason, when you speak on behalf of all Catalonia, I can't assume that you do it really on behalf of all Catalans and Catalans. Giving up the vision and the complete and clear understanding of what is happening in Catalonia is a sign of naivety or pride and you are neither naive nor proud, Mr Tardà. That is why it is necessary precisely to dialogue, in order to build with our visions, necessarily partial, a broader and more inclusive perspective of the political situation in Catalonia. You present us with a memorial of grievances and a set of urgent demands that cannot be expected and this Government has the sensitivity and respect to listen to you and your representatives, especially your representatives, who are part of Catalan society; not all, but an important part. And as a result of this respect, I assume the need to develop an institutional and political dialogue with the aim of finding elements of agreement that reduce concern and strengthen the elements of consensus. On the other hand, I also hope that the Government in which you participate, in the Generalitat, will have equal sensitivity and respect. Every conflict we deactivate, every challenge we resolve through the pact, every decision that recognizes aspects relevant to the other are steps consistent with that respect and mutual consideration. You are the second largest Catalan minority in this Chamber, just as we have been the largest minority for almost forty years of democracy. Being the largest minority and even the majority, which we have also been, is important, but temporary and changing, and that does not give the right to change unilaterally the fundamental foundations of the political pact, the rules of the game of a democratic system. That is precisely what you did, Mr Tardà, and that is more than a mistake and, of course, it is more than a beacon. Your Honor, closing doors only serves those who want to grow in conflict and conflict. Converting each step into a challenge only applies to those who do not want to go anywhere and already has as only horizon to be present through confrontation. Whoever has a political objective, who assumes an option as a political party with his own ideology, knows that he must first open doors, build bridges, take risks and sometimes accept responsibilities. I trust that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will maintain that character as a party in its noblest sense and that is why I believe that Esquerra can and will be a central part in defining a new area of agreement, progress and commitment and not irresponsible flight. The proposal that the Government wants to put forward is a proposal with contents, with guarantees as well, legal and political, and above all with a commitment of loyalty. Your Honor, you said this in your speech: Catalonia is a strong, dynamic and capable community. Our territorial model conceives it as a community that can lead autonomous development and build, from its integration into Spain, a stronger and more cohesive society. Let us not overlook that space of leadership, let us not overlook that space of leadership for the benefit of a splendid isolation that in the 21st century looks more like a small and assimilated Catalonia in the past than the real Catalonia open to competition and leadership. Mr Tardà, you referred in your speech to Catalanism, the Catalanism which I actually represent and which represents the Socialist Party of Catalonia. But Catalanism has always wanted to build and contribute to the construction of Spain, and it is within that framework that Catalanism has made and makes sense. Catalanism was abandoned by the Republican Left of Catalonia, it has been abandoned by the vast majority of political forces in Catalonia, and is currently represented almost exclusively by the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Catalanism only makes sense, Mr Tardà, as I said, in the construction of a common project, in the contribution decided to change Spain, to improve Spain, to contribute to the reforms that we think can collectively make us stronger to assume and to address the challenges of the future that we have ahead, which far exceed our borders, Mr Tardà. Let us not make Catalonia smaller, let us not make Catalonia's project a small and exclusive one, but let us reintegrate Catalonia into the whole of the State and the project of a better Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u175	Thank you, Minister. We never speak on behalf of the whole of Catalonia, even if we want good for all the citizens of Catalonia and, certainly, we represent the Catalan republicans and republicans. Anyway, let's get to the point. There can only be dialogue if we can talk about everything. I tell you: we are not going to participate in any dialogue framework where the parties cannot talk about everything. There will be things that you will not like to hear and there will be things that we will not like to hear, but there can be no dialogue if the parties do not recognize themselves as transmitters and receivers of ideas, of proposals, even if they are very, very, but very far away. I mean, we're in 'Pawn 4 King'. Chess teachers say that according to what opening is given, the game is won or lost. Let us be cautious and intelligent in creating the framework, and the framework can only be one in which all parties can talk about everything. And we will not accept that we are told that we can only talk about the reforms this old building needs. We say: welcome the debate on those proposals that make up the repairs of the old building, but we have the right to talk about the property of the building, even the co-ownership of the building. I mean, this decision - which you make - to assume or not to assume that you can talk about everything is very, but it is very important because it will determine the evolution of the process. If you have the reform of the Constitution as your proposal, we believe it is not the solution, but you have every right to try. Try the People's Party, try Citizens. That you say that maybe the road is a new status of autonomy? Try it! If the people of Catalonia say yes, we will, of course, abide by what the people of Catalonia say, even if we do not like it. We didn't ask no to the statue and the people of Catalonia said yes? And what did we do, unlike the People's Party? We do. Now, no one escapes that, being where we are, you too will have to assume that the people of Catalonia will have to decide on another option. Or is it that the people of Catalonia, which is sovereign, a people of the twenty-first century, civic, peaceful and mature in terms of their democratic values, and of course plural, can decide on one and cannot decide on the other? So, what's the strip? The list is that the Government of Catalonia and the Spanish Government can talk about everything, agree on the agenda and speak, even if it is to find that in some matters we are very but very far away. In fact, do contemporary generations want to resolve the dispute or do we want it to be over and the political and emotional chasm between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia to grow? We understand that now you have to have size. Everyone has to demonstrate, at least, the will to have a political dimension and to be aware of the historical moment that we are living and not to fall into either the short race or the short look. I say this to you, that I am an independentist, and I assume that at least we have made as many mistakes as you have, or, in other words, we have had as many successes, perhaps, as you have. But remember something - and I finish, Mr President - if you look at the percentage of independent citizens in the 20 to 40 age group, you will see that there are 12 points above the 50 to 70 age group. I mean, I think you too should be interested in putting on the monkey job. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u177	Thank you, President. Mr Tardà, you are asking me about the political situation in Catalonia, and I believe that when we talk about the political situation in Catalonia we have to talk about the citizens of Catalonia in particular. That's the perspective I'm interested in. I will give you an example of subjective vision, that is, it depends on who you ask, every citizen and every citizen. According to the barometer of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinió, which depends on the Generalitat, in October last year 66% of the respondents stated that the political situation in Catalonia was at that time bad or very bad; 66%. That is true, those who, like me, feel as Catalan as Spanish were very concerned at 81%, and those who, like you, feel exclusively Catalan were much less concerned: only 46% thought the situation was bad or very bad, almost half worried that we or all those who feel as Spanish as Catalans; that in October. Now, in April, the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinió has again conducted a survey and it is no longer 66% of Catalans and Catalans who declare that the political situation in Catalonia is bad or very bad, but 83%. Do you know why the concern has risen almost 20 points? Because those who don't feel Spanish, like you, have gone from that 46% of worried people to 81%. So now, both those who have an inclusive identity and those who have an exclusive identity, both those who defend the union of all Spaniards and those who defend independence or secession, we are all already very worried, very worried. That's the reality of today. What happens is that if we take the data from the last four years, people who think like you have been almost half worried about those who think like me. That inequality means that we have had years of concern, many years of concern and that that concern has not been resolved, but has spread to virtually all citizens at the moment. What I propose is that we work to reduce everyone's concern and that we all worry about the concern of the whole, of those who think like you and those who think like me, of those who think differently from you and me. Faced with the negative reciprocity that we have reached after at least four years of independence process, I propose that we try a positive reciprocity that benefits everyone rather than harms us all, and for this it is important that every measure that we propose and every measure that we adopt takes into account precisely the criterion of reciprocity; that criterion that I proposed as a rule in my first intervention to speak, to dialogue, to further progress. It is important in this respect, Mr Tardà, that we assume the loyalty between institutions and towards all citizens, something I have repeatedly referred to these days in all the public interventions I have had occasion to do. We have to assume that we must also work for citizens who do not think like us and strive to generate socially and politically positive consensus, that we do not find ways of dialogue or disregard partial agreements, that we do not magnify disagreements or make each agreement an irrevocable transfer. In order to arrive at the sad situation in which we are, in which there are 83% of the population in Catalonia who are concerned, who live in anguish, with a sore and broken society even in the privacy of families - and you know it - it has been necessary for many to make many mistakes for a long time. To get out of this situation it will be necessary for many to act correctly for a long time and, above all, not only that we do not make political mistakes, to which you have referred, but fundamentally that we do not again make mistakes that transcend politics and that go much further, as I said in my first intervention, from a simple political error. The conflict, Mr Tardà, will not be resolved exclusively by the Government of Spain. I wish that the Spanish Government could do it exclusively, alone! But we will all solve it if we all get involved, recovering concepts that have been lost in politics: loyalty, trust and respect. These three concepts need to re-chair contacts, dialogues, negotiations and possible agreements. The government that President Pedro Sánchez is concerned about reducing the anguish of citizens, but not of half of citizens, but of all citizens, as a whole. In that we are going to work and what I hope is that you too will work to help reduce the anguish of each and every citizen of Catalonia, regardless of what you think. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the Government's proposals in connection with the announcement by the Minister of Territorial Policy and the Public Function to recover articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[File number 172/000130]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u179	We turn to the next item: Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the purposes of the Government in relation to the announcement by the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service to recover articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. For your defence, Mrs Montserrat Montserrat has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u180	Thank you, President. Appreciated minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to question you and to explain to us what your government programme is for the political situation in Catalonia. On June 10 you said that the reform of the Constitution was urgent, feasible and desirable. And on the same day, June 10, he said that his Government was going to legalize part of the Statute of Catalonia that annulled the Constitution. On 11 June - 24 hours later - you said that the reform of the Constitution was impossible because the Socialist Group had only 84 Members. On June 19, yesterday, in the Senate, you said that the Constitution had to be reformed because it responded to the vast majority of society. And today, we will see, because Mr Tardà has not been told anything, you have not made any proposals from the Spanish Government for the political situation in Catalonia. Therefore, today will come with another statement in response to this inquiry. But the worst is not what it says but what you promised not here, with lights and tachographs, but what you have committed to with the Catalan independenceists to be a year and a half, a year or two sitting on the blue bench. Because when you said yesterday in the Senate that you have to reform the Constitution to respond to the vast majority, perhaps you are not saying that you want to reform the Constitution to respond to the vast minority of Catalan independence? We do not forget that in 2013, in this House, together with the members of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, you voted in favour of the right to decide, which is not provided for in our Constitution. I will make it clear to you what the People's Party stands for. We believe in constitutional, plural, diverse and united Spain. We believe that our shared desire to feed and enhance this project suggestive of common life, said Ortega and Gasset, remains fully in force. We want and defend a well-built Spain, where all Spaniards feel proud, protected and integrated, where we can absolutely all. We and the People's Party defend our Constitution, the unity of Spain, national sovereignty, and we do it without complexes, we do it in every corner of Spain and we always do it. We defend the model of the autonomous state because it has enabled us to achieve the best successes, the greatest economic, social, cultural and coexistence progress we have ever had in the last forty years. Do you know how we got it, Mrs. Batet? Together. And you know how we got it? With consensus, with dialogue, but always with lights and stenographers and always within the legal framework that we have all given ourselves. Only the law - and you know it well - makes us equal and democracy is always respect for the law. Outside the law there is only totalitarianism, sectarianism and loss of all our rights and freedoms. Do you know what it means to break the law and violate the Constitution and the statute of autonomy? Breaking the consensus that cost our parents, our mothers, our grandparents and our grandmothers so much. Skipping the law means breaking the cohabitation and concord. It means annihilating the freedom of each Spaniard, equality and social justice of all Spaniards. It means scorning, silencing, coercing and kneeling before blackmailers to a whole society. Therefore, breaking the law means dynamizing democracy. The People's Party will always continue - and we want to make it clear now that there is a new government in the nation - from the firmness of the law, from the defense of the Constitution, from the defense of the unity of Spain, from the defense of national sovereignty, together, from consensus and dialogue and within the legal framework, building this great nation that is Spain. This great nation consists of seventeen autonomous communities and a magnificent land that is Catalonia. A land of welcome, plural, where we all fit and where the rights and freedoms of the 7.5 million Catalans are really protected. We, of course, have always believed in dialogue and have always practiced it. The last example is in the General Budgets of the State, which you voted against and with which you, however, will now govern, with these magnificent General Budgets of the State, one of the most social in the history of democracy. We have been able to listen, to dialogue and to agree with many political forces in this House, but always for the common good, for the good of all Catalans and the rest of the Spanish. The independence challenge in Catalonia - and you know it very well, just like me - has broken us as a society, has broken families, friends, at work... The independence process has been a deepening of division and confrontation, opening the way for the sozobra, for the disunity, for the social fracture and for the loss of opportunities. It has meant a loss of rights and freedoms, but above all a loss of opportunity. Many companies have fled and have not returned and we have had to deal with it, and we have done so together. The People's Party in Government, led by President Rajoy, has had to face unilateral declarations of independence, we have seen how unscrupulously the Constitution and the Statute of Catalonia were violated, we have seen how unallowed referendums have been convened in the Constitution, and we have seen how some have taken advantage of their territorial political power to sow the seeds of social confrontation and hatred. And together, People's Party, Socialist Party and Citizens, we have defended the territorial integrity of Spain, together we have defended the return of legality, coexistence, legal certainty, stability in Catalonia, without abandoning any Catalan, applying Article 155. Together we have supported the words of his majesty the King of Spain and together we have defended the image of Spain on the outside, stained without scruples systematically with public resources by the Catalan embassies, by the Diplocat. It has been Pedro Sánchez, Felipe González, Susana Díaz, José Bono and even Miquel Iceta who have supported all the measures outlined above in the framework of the implementation of article 155 of the Constitution. And all this policy with capitals, that state policy, agreed and agreed among those we believe and defend that the law that we have all given ourselves is to be fulfilled, seems to have suddenly changed. What's changed, Mrs. Batet? Get up here and explain it to us. What's changed? What have they agreed out of lights and tachographs? What have they agreed with independence? Because you don't get to the blue bench for free, you only get when you win the election. Through a motion of censure you can only get there because you will have agreed something with the independenceists. I am going to ask you a few questions because I am the one who is asking you and therefore I hope you will really answer all of them, which is not as ambiguous as when you answered Mr Tardà, with whom we are precisely in opposing ideological positions. Just a month ago Mr. Sánchez said that Mr. Torra was a racist at the head of the Generalitat, and now, every five minutes, he asks to meet with him. I just ask you to come up here and tell us what the agenda of this meeting is going to be, what they are going to work on with Mr. Torra, if Mr. Pedro Sánchez is really going to ask you to comply with the law and the firmness and commitment with the unity of Spain, with the Constitution and with the statute of autonomy. What are you going to do after seeing how the following morning Mr Torra was elected president, in the Generalitat de Catalunya, which is an institution of all Catalans - his and mine -, hung a banner in favor of the imprisoned politicians, even when he puts political prisoners. What are you guys gonna do? Because this is vilifying Catalan public institutions. Mr. Torra, on the balcony of his house, hang whatever you want, but please tell him to take off that banner from the balcony of the Generalitat, which is of all Catalans. Yesterday, on the public television we paid all the Spaniards we saw how a journalist no longer spoke of political prisoners but spoke of political prisoners. Are you guys changing something? I see that you are influencing, pressing and manipulating the judiciary to promote the rapprochement of prisoners to prisons controlled by the Government of Catalonia. There are even prominent leaders of the Government who call for the end of the imprisonments handed down by the judges. You come many times and give us lessons of independence from justice and speak without blush of condoning the part of the Catalan public debt, without taking into account all the autonomous communities that have fulfilled the deficit and that are not in the FLA. Perhaps Catalonia has devoted its money precisely to deepening the division and confrontation and opening embassies that we together with you closed last October. Explain to us this from the forgiveness of Catalonia's debt and explain to the autonomous communities that have fulfilled their deficit and that they are not in the FLA what they are going to offer. This cannot be done behind the back of the rest of the autonomous communities. And what are you going to do with the embassies you've opened? Because I do not believe that the Government of Catalonia has opened the embassies to promote and boost Catalonia economically and to promote Catalan companies, which is the function of the commercial offices of all the autonomous communities in all the countries of Europe. Are they watching, watching so that with public money these embassies can't be used to speak bad again of Spain, of all Catalans and of all Spaniards and to reexplain lies and distortions in Europe? What have you done in the face of the ANC demonstration announcing that you will launch a campaign to signal to companies that they do not embrace independence? But what is this, that ANC, a publicly registered entity, says it will do a campaign to signal to companies that they are not independent? And what is the government of Pedro Sánchez doing? What is the government of Pedro Sánchez doing when Quim Torra says it is going to propose that October 1st be the national holiday? Don't tell me it's only the Generalitat's competition, because you've agreed to sit in those chairs with the Independenceists. Something they have to do, not just go to TV sets. Tell me what you think of TV3, that the first thing Quim Torra does is to give 22 million euros to this public television that I also pay with my taxes and on which I am not represented, and probably not you either, because it is not really a plural television, which is what we want from public television in Spain. What are you guys gonna do? Are you going to continue to control Catalonia's public finances? Because the autonomous community is still in the FLA. Are you going to control the Generalitat's bills so that they don't spend it on what doesn't matter, but on what really matters, which are the hospitals, on eliminating school barracks, on dependency and waiting lists in Catalonia? Or are they going to keep using the money to get back on track again? Make no mistake, Mrs Batet, the independenceists come to break Catalonia and Spain, and every weakness of the Government of Spain will be one more step on their part to end our freedoms. Let me tell you something. After listening to her with Mr Tardà, I see that we are going back to the Tinell Pact, that we are going back to the sanitary cord. Is this the hope you propose to us? Are these the solutions you propose to us? Mr Girauta said before: do not go back to the trenches. If you return to the Tinell Pact and to the health cord, pushing the People's Party away from any kind of agreement within the legal framework, all you will be doing is going back into the divide and getting the whole society back into the trenches. Is this the only strategy that you are going to propose in this rostrum, to return to the Tinell Pact and to the health cord? You offer and promise things that you know you can't fulfill. Do you know why not? Because in front of them are the Constitution, the Rule of Law and the People's Party, which we are the only ones who defend without caps, with normality, without complexes and with firmness the Constitution, the Rule of Law, the law, coexistence, harmony and dialogue, always within the legal framework. Therefore, I ask and demand that you not mortgage the territorial integrity of Spain, unity, national sovereignty, that you do not sell it. You have to react, because the passivity to the provocations that we have seen in recent weeks cannot be the answer that you are going to give, that you are doing absolutely nothing. We want to know what they are going to do in the face of this new hostility, in the face of the provocations that we see continuously, and how they are going to restore coexistence, stability, economic, social and cultural recovery. Not just talk to me about dialogue, but here I want measures, and we want your government programme for the political project in Catalonia. You must know that the People's Party will always be with each and every one of the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, defending the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy, the Catalan institutions, legality, coexistence and harmony so that Catalonia will again be that land of all, in which no one can ever be excluded think what he thinks and that it will again be that land of opportunity, proud of itself and admired in the rest of Spain, a land of enterprise...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u181	Mrs. Montserrat, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u182	...within Spain and within Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u183	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u184	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Montserrat. You guys walk away by yourself. We have no interest in them moving away and, of course, from the Spanish Government we hope that the loyalty they demanded when they were the Government will maintain them from the opposition. We have been loyal since the opposition to a delicate and complex issue like the one we are debating today. Mrs Montserrat, I hope that this sense of responsibility and loyalty demanded of the other will also be offered now from the opposition, because the People's Party changes a lot when it is in the government and when it is in the opposition. When he's in the opposition, he forgets that loyalty, and that's important. Mrs Montserrat, Spanish society has so many problems and so many challenges ahead; too many for you to add fictitious fears, non-existent dangers or hidden pacts that you know perfectly well that they do not exist. Mrs Montserrat, you know perfectly well that they do not exist. It was the corruption and partisan use of democratic institutions that you played the role of the Government of Spain. Mrs. Montserrat, don't divert your attention. It was corruption and the partisan use of democratic institutions. [[Applauds]] That led to a concurrence of the rest of the parliamentary arch to propitiate this change of government and to an unprecedented, unusual and for the first time in our country a motion of censure. First aim. The Government defends the territorial model contained in the Constitution and developed in the statutes of autonomy and the whole legal system. Firstly, because it is our institutional obligation and because it is also part of the defence of the rule of law and the democratic state that the Socialist Party, the Government of Spain now and this parliamentary group have never called into question. We have always been at the side of the State to defend the rule of law and the democratic State. We defend the existing territorial model because it was the result of a broad agreement in 1978, renewed in each legislature and revised through the reforms of several autonomous statutes. We believe in him from the first moment until today. We believe in it from the very beginning because the Socialist Party voted in full on the Constitution, voted on the territorial model embodied in the Constitution and voted on Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution. Mrs Montserrat, we believe in union in freedom through common values and rights and we believe in the recognition and expression of the plurality that the Constitution and our territorial model also empower and defend. Second, on the reform of the Constitution. The Socialist Party has for many years defended the desirability of reforming the Constitution. First, to boost the ability to achieve the goals that the constitutional text itself claims, and all political forces must have an interest in meeting those goals. Second of all, to defend her. Yes, to defend the Constitution at the moment we think it is best to reform it, to change it and to update that pact of coexistence that we all gave ourselves in 1978 and that has been a model of success. However, the reality of Spain today demands, from our point of view, a change and a reform, and to defend that change and that reform is to defend the democratic State, it is to defend the rule of law and it is to defend the constitutional text itself because it is the way to strengthen the Constitution. [[Applauds]] To strengthen it. Mrs Montserrat, you know it perfectly well but today Mr Tardà has also said it in this rostrum: the independenceists have no interest in reforming the Constitution because that is the beginning of strengthening and strengthening the State, it is the beginning of strengthening Spain, it is the beginning of strengthening the unity of all Spaniards, the equality of all Spaniards and the recognition of the diversity and plurality of Spain. That is why they have no interest in reforming the Constitution. How will the reform of the Constitution be a counterpart to the independenceists, Mrs Montserrat? But it is also not only the Socialist Party or the Government of Spain that raises the desirability of this reform of the Constitution, but also that there are very many collectives - academics, professors - who have made many reports on this issue and it is Spanish society itself. The CIS had a very interesting series about which in 2012 it stopped asking - casually, when you came to the government - and it was whether you agreed or thought that the reform of the Constitution could be an interesting way to explore. 58% of Spanish society answered that question, 58% of Spanish society! It is not a question of a parliamentary group, of a government, of a political party; no, it is a demand of the whole of Spanish society. But you, Mrs Montserrat, in your question, although you have made virtually no reference to it, asked me about an announcement I made about the recovery of articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and I would also like to refer to that, Your Honor. The Constitutional Court, in its judgement 31/2010, annulled parts of fourteen articles of the Statute of Autonomy approved in 2006 by these Courts and subsequently in referendum by all citizens of Catalonia. Fourteen statements of partial unconstitutionality against the more than one hundred requests for unconstitutionality submitted precisely by the People's Parliamentary Group, its parliamentary group. Of these fourteen decisions, five relate to the scope of the organization of the judiciary and two to financial matters. In most of these cases, the Constitutional Court's statement results not from the opposition to the Constitution of the content of the regulated articles, but from their inclusion in a statute, in the Statute of Catalonia, when they should have been included in organic laws affecting all communities and not only Catalonia. I was also telling Mr. Girauta this very morning. [[The lady]] Your Honor, it is a matter of considering the possibility of including in the relevant organic laws some of the contents of these precepts following precisely the options opened by the Constitutional Court itself and obviously respecting the requirements of qualified majorities in this House that are necessary to amend such laws: an absolute majority, for the vast majority. It is a proposal within others that can be proposed to offer alternatives that reintegrate the constitutional model to many citizens who today feel removed from it in Catalonia. And you know that; because it's not about the independence leaders, it's about the Catalan society, it's about the more than two million people who have decided to vote for those independence forces because they're also part of our reality and they're not going to disappear, Mrs Montserrat; they're not going to disappear. But also, and above all, because we believe that the resulting changes would be positive for the general functioning of the autonomous state, for all the autonomous communities, for all Spanish society. You may not agree with the proposals; in fact, it is more than likely that in six years of government you have not even considered it appropriate to discuss the proposals for change that came from the different autonomous communities, even more so, because you have not moved, nor have you just started the debate on updating the funding system that should have been conducted in 2013, we have been many years behind. The proposals with which the People's Party does not agree do not automatically become unconstitutional, subversive or criminal, which is what you are trying to transfer to Spanish society; they are alternative proposals that we make who we believe we should do policy in this House and from the Government of Spain, that is, propose and discuss alternatives to existing rules to improve the functioning of the constitutional system or to update and guarantee every day as broad a support as possible of our constitutional model. Politics has returned to Spain, also in territorial matters, the real policy, which risks building and opposes dividing our society; the one which does not subvert the system, even if you are repeating it, but thinks of its updating and its improvement, because it thinks that its updating and its improvement will better respond to the challenges ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already shown what it means for the People's Party to respond to the crisis generated in Catalonia: silence for six years and constant referral to the courts. And the reality is that the territorial crisis today is much worse than it was six years ago. True, it does not seem that with the electoral success they expected neither in Catalonia nor in the rest of Spain, but, yes, they have even managed to have students who threaten to overcome them in the course of crises and conflicts as a basis for immediate electoral growth, although it is not a good way to solve problems, it is not a good way. They have been exploring it for six years, and what has caused it has been to increase the territorial crisis, to deepen the territorial crisis. In any case, the result is that, as you like to say, your inheritance, the inheritance in territorial terms, is an conquered conflict and that it lacks the slightest bridges of dialogue to try to restore the situation. It is up to us now to seek ways forward and stop aggravating the conflict. One of those avenues to explore is the one that has raised precisely its question, although there are many more: improving the instruments of participation and cooperation, bringing the funding model back to compliance with constitutional principles and a long one. In all cases, strive to respond to citizen demands. Not to demands from leaders or from concrete and independent political parties, but to citizens' demands from respect for the constitutional framework and the search for agreements between opposing demands. The President of the Government does not refuse responsibility or risk if he believes that the objective deserves it, and the aim of restoring coexistence in Catalonia and gradually overcoming the independence conflict seems to us to deserve it and what we hope, Mrs Montserrat, is that you too do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u185	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Montserrat Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u186	Thank you, President. Minister, loyalty. You ask us for loyalty. During its forty years we have always been loyal to the Constitution, to the unity of Spain, to national sovereignty, to the law and, therefore, to the fundamental pillars of democracy and we will always be in the same place. [[Applauds]] You're the ones who might change. I am the one who demands loyalty to the Constitution, loyalty to the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, loyalty to the law and loyalty to the constitutional agreement reached in October 2017, when the People's Party was able to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party and citizens. We are able to dialogue within the legal framework and reach agreements for the good of all, for the general interest and for all Catalans. When we talk about loyalty, we have to talk about two things. First, in order for you to ask us for loyalty, you will have to come up here and explain what reform of the Constitution you want to do. How can you ask us loyalty to your government when you have not said anything about what kind of constitutional reform you want to do! [[Applauds]] Loyalty is transparency, loyalty is to explain your program, loyalty is to explain to all Spaniards what reform of the Constitution they want to do. The second thing you have to do before you ask us for loyalty is to tell us whether the PSC continues to defend, as you did here with the PSC voting in favour, the right to decide. [[Applauds]] Are you going to put the right to decide in the reform of the Constitution? We have to know, all Spaniards have to know what you want to do with constitutional reform. Don't come up here with empty words, don't come up without a political program, don't come up saying: yes, let's reform the Constitution. What are they going to reform the Constitution? Are you going to put the right to decide how the PSC voted here in this House, against the other comrades of the Socialist Party? Do you know what the Socialist Party has to deal with? That the Socialist Party does not think the same in every corner of Spain. And do you know what the People's Party thinks in every corner of Spain? That we defend the Constitution, the unity of Spain and we defend legality, because the law makes us equal. This is what you have to explain to me now in the reply to my reply, because if not, you have no legitimacy to ask us for loyalty; even though we will always be loyal to the Constitution and to all Spaniards, do not forget. Therefore, the People's Party will always be found in the Constitution, in the unity of Spain and in respect for the law. I will take advantage of a few words by Herrero and Rodríguez de Minón on 10 January, precisely in the Committee on the Evaluation and Updating of the Autonomic State, because in this House we are already talking about the evaluation and updating of the Autonomic State. The problem is that we don't know what the PSOE thinks or what the PSC thinks or what they're going to reform the Constitution. I will mention his words: I believe in constitutional Spain as one and diverse Spain, and I believe that all developments of unity and diversity have to be made within the constitutional spirit, which is the maintenance of that fundamental historical magnitude that is Spain, historical and present. And that effectively requires that future covenants that can be made must be made within the framework of legality, in the spirit of legality and without transactions with those who have broken the law. That is, what is impossible is to jump into the toaster all the higher and lower standards and then say: let's fix this as if nothing had happened. My advice would be that that would never be done. We cannot reward crime, and in this case we clearly do not talk about different opinions, but rather about criminals and not criminals. Herrero and Rodríguez de Minón, father of the Constitution, 10 January 2017 in this House. The People's Party is in this, in defending the Constitution, the unity of Spain within the legal framework; we are not negotiating dark, without lights and stenographers, with independence, because we do not believe that you are sitting on the blue bank in exchange for anything, and I knew that you would not answer anything I asked you. I asked you about the agenda for the meeting of Pedro Sánchez with Mr. Torra. I asked what the Catalan embassies are doing in the rest of Europe and whether you are watching them; what Mr Borrell is saying, because I do not listen to him or see him. You have not answered me what you will do with the banner of the Generalitat of Catalonia, because the Generalitat is of all. You have not told me what they will do with the proclamation and campaign of the ANC to point out to Catalan companies that they are not with independence. You have not explained to us what they will do, whether or not to forgive Catalonia's debt when it is in the FLA, and what they will do with the other autonomous communities. You haven't said anything about Mr. Torra's opinion that October 1 has to be Catalonia's national day, you haven't told me about TV3. Therefore, go up, answer and propose to us the political program of the government of Pedro Sánchez on Catalonia. I will tell you one thing: you use many euphemisms - you distend, distend, decompress, dialogue - but it gives me the feeling that you are again claudicating, claudicating before this independence. Many Catalans, the Catalans who feel deeply Catalan and Spanish, we are tired of being the currency of change to temporarily relax the cravings for nationalism, we are tired of our rights being systematically trampled on and we are afraid that you will return to the Tinell Pact and to the health cord because you, too, have set aside a whole part of Catalan society as we were the Catalans of the People's Party. And from there we come, from those muds we come; don't forget: from the Tinell Pact and the sanitary cord made by the Socialist Party of Catalonia. I will tell you more: autonomous financing, you are the only thing you have proposed is autonomous financing. But if it was Pedro Sánchez himself who said yesterday to park the autonomous funding in two years' time. His Government itself had just said that there would be no autonomous funding and that it would park it. Do you know that the People's Party government had planned the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council in June to continue talking about autonomous financing? Do you know? Why don't you continue it? Why don't you continue that work? And remember that it was you - you talk so much about that you don't like Catalonia's autonomous financing - who agreed to the autonomous financing model of all Spain for all the autonomous communities with the Republican Squerra. You've already made a deal with Republican Left! So, you're sitting here by Republican Left. Go up here, explain the reform of the Constitution and really explain what it is going to do to make Catalonia Spain and to make the 7.5 million Catalans live again in that land of coexistence and plurality and that land that didn't differ from what you thought, that didn't point you with your finger and that didn't treat you as a second-rate Catalan just because you felt Catalan and Spanish. Defend, truly, Catalonia within Spain and within Europe and show us that you are loyal to the Constitution because the People's Party will always be loyal to the Constitution, to all Catalans and to the rest of the Spanish. They have a great job and I tell you, really, that we are going to be vigilant and that we are going to continue to be the guarantors of the Constitution, of coexistence, of Catalans and of the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u187	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u188	Thank you, President. Mrs Montserrat, the Socialists are accustomed to anything that the Socialist Party or a socialist government or a parliamentary group propose automatically imply to the People's Party a breakdown of the system, a subversion, a threat and an insurmountable concession to the enemies of the rule of law, even if it is then you who make your own some of the things that we have proposed over these years of democracy. Then yes, when they assume it and when they arrive at the Government they become common sense and respect for the Constitution. How little security they must have in their convictions, their ideals and their values that they do not even dare to dialogue with the one who thinks differently! What little conviction, Mrs. Montserrat! I'm not afraid to talk to someone who thinks differently because it's going to be hard for me to lose my values, my convictions, my territorial model and my conception of Spain. [[Applauds]] It doesn't scare me because dialogue isn't giving in. [[Rumors]] Because consensus isn't about selling to the enemy, it's not about selling to the enemy, really. Mrs. Montserrat, watch, of course, everything you have to watch. The Government of Spain is subject not only to the control of this House but also to the control of the Senate and all the controls that you consider appropriate. But you did not want to respond to the political demands raised by Catalonia in the six years of President Rajoy's government. As a political decision it was, you were perfectly legitimate to do so, it was an option to do nothing, but you must assume the political consequences of your position, which not only failed to deactivate the independence demands in Catalonia, but also aggravated the situation, increased independence, increased demands, increased social conflict and increased the disagreement between Catalans and Catalans, but also between Catalonia and the whole state. We do want to respond to those demands which do not mean to give in, which also respond to demands not from leaders of political parties but to social demands, of society, I said earlier. Firstly, because we believe that politics is the way to respond precisely to citizens' demands and to bring them back within the constitutional framework. Secondly, because we believe that the response to some of these demands improves the functioning, and I have said this before, of the entire autonomous state and, thirdly, because it proposes political alternatives to unshared or even contrary to the Constitution. It is not - I am opening quotes - to negotiate the demands of the independence parties as they propose, but to attend to the perception of the society in which they manifest themselves. The problem is not what the secessionist leaders want; the question is to discern what has allowed their choice to be supported by an important part of Catalan society. I take these words, which are not mine, as my own. They are contained in a document presented by a group of prestigious professors of our country, where at the head were precisely Dr. Muñoz Machado and Dr. Eliseo Aja. Of course, the Group of the European People's Party can continue with this catastrophic discourse, but the reality is that the territorial cohesion, social cohesion and institutional cohesion of our country today are much worse than six years ago, Mrs Montserrat, and some responsibility will lie with the Spanish Government in that, because its attitude and decisions have not helped to improve that territorial cohesion, to improve social cohesion and to improve institutional cohesion. There is a territory of Spain in which, under the mandate of Mr Rajoy, there has grown a strong conflict and is not directly responsible, but it has contributed to fueling that conflict; a conflict that is going through - I said earlier - real cities and peoples, real streets, that is going through many souls and many citizens who suffer in their own skin that conflict. That conflict deserves to be explored, Mrs Montserrat, always within the Constitution, but it is that the Socialist Party cannot give lessons about being within the Constitution or defending it, because it has been a project we have believed in and contributed to from the beginning to today. [[Applauds]] What we are not going to do, Mrs Montserrat, is to fuel this conflict. We will try to explore consensus, we will dialogue, but never with the will to offend, never with the will to transgress covenants, never with the will to humiliate anyone. That's the way and that's the question, Mrs. Montserrat. It was done to Mr Girauta of the Citizens' Group, and it is done to you and to your parliamentary group as well. The question is whether they want to be in the solution, whether they want to contribute actively to the solution to one of the biggest territorial crises that we have experienced as a country, or whether they want to remain anchored in the problem to see if they draw political and electoral revenue from it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u190	Before the end of the agenda, an institutional statement was to be read by the Congress of Deputies to endorse the statement of UN Women on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict. I give the floor to the first Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u191	Thank you, Madam President. The Congress of Deputies of Spain endorses as an institutional declaration the Declaration of UN Women on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict. This year, on the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict, we celebrate ten years of the adoption of the emblematic United Nations Security Council Resolution 1820 of 2008, which calls the use of sexual violence in situations of armed conflict an obstacle to the restoration of international peace and security. Over the course of this decade, we have seen radical progress in combating conflict-related sexual violence, such as the effective prosecution by national and international courts of aggressors who seemed untouchable, numerous legal and legislative reforms to improve protection and ensure access to justice for survivors and witnesses, the creation of comprehensive specialized services for victims, with socio-economic rehabilitation initiatives and reparations, codes of conduct for the security forces in order to ensure greater awareness and training in conflict-related sexual violence and a change of mindset through which the rejection of these crimes has become widespread today and the efforts of women and organizations representing them to eradicate them are supported. Ladies and gentlemen, yet worldwide sexual violence continues to be a tactical, effective and free strategy to terrorise communities and gain territorial, political and economic benefits on the battlefield. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, sexual violence has spread to provinces not affected by the conflict, and entire communities in Myanmar have been forced to flee due to serious human rights violations, with profusion of sexual violence. The response of the international community must be clear, comprehensive, rapid and sustainable. Avoiding these crimes must be our number one priority. At UN Women, we continue to develop and implement strategies to prevent sexual violence in conflict situations. Our work includes supporting national plans of action on women's peace and security, which we design as a tool to promote women's participation, leadership and protection from conflict-related gender-based violence and sexual violence. We maintain the work of the secretariat of the Network of Focal Points for Women, Peace and Security, an informal interregional forum that allows the exchange of good practices to more than eighty member States and regional organizations. We work closely with numerous women's associations, for example, through the Women's Fund for Peace and Humanitarian Action, a global joint funding mechanism that in 2017 supported more than 30 civil society organizations in four priority countries and areas: Burundi, Colombia, Jordan and the Pacific Islands. Together with prevention, it is imperative to strengthen accountability for acts of sexual violence in conflict countries. We must go even further to transform this culture of impunity into a culture of deterrence, ensuring that efforts to document and investigate international crimes give priority to those of sexual violence. In 2012, UN Women partnered with Justice Rapid Response, Justice Rapid Response, to create a roster of justice experts on sexual and gender-based violence, The JRRUN Women, a mechanism that enables rapid mobilization of experts to investigate whether sexual violations and abuse have occurred in conflict situations. In 2017, listed individuals helped document evidence of such crimes in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iraq, Kosovo, South Sudan, Syria and Yemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also essential to provide facilities for women to be present in peace and security processes. It is recognized, both in the normative frameworks of the United Nations and by the field commanders themselves, that the participation of women in the military components of peace operations is a critical factor contributing to the success of such missions. However, the current peacekeeping missions are mobilizing a small number of female military personnel. With the Official Women's Army Course, the FMOC, UN Women aims to encourage officers to participate in UN peace missions. In 2017 it allowed the training of 123 women officers. Ladies and gentlemen, no country can put an end to the scourge of sexual violence alone, but if we prioritize prevention, forge strategic alliances and develop good practices, we can all together provide sustainable and effective solutions to our societies and to the women and girls who suffer them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-20-CD180620.u192	Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was twelve and five minutes from noon.
