ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u1	The meeting was resumed. I announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that pursuant to 177.4 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote will not take place before 11 a.m. Thank you so much. We continue with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u2	Thank you, President. They will allow me to start my speech by thanking all the parliamentary groups that showed yesterday to the Socialist Parliamentary Group the support for this motion of censure, which was essential to intervene for a demand for regeneration of democratic political ethics and for not to happen again what happened yesterday and what happens this morning: the lack of institutional respect of the one who is still President of the Government, who does not come here to fulfill his obligation to be on the motion of censure. [[applause]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] We know that a difficult moment is beginning; we are going to assume it with responsibility, with a sense of state, as the Socialist Party always does. And we're going to do it humbly, humbly. [[Rumors]] We know it's not easy. We know that these are difficult and complicated times, but we want to work with illusion, with hope, for dialogue. We want the illusion and hope of 1982 and 2004 to return to Spain. [[Applauds]] In 1982, with the government of Felipe González, which brought modernity to Spain, which made health, education and public services improve, which introduced Spain into Europe and gave it the leading role that only socialists can give. We also want to follow the 2004 model, the model of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero; a legislature based on the equality of all. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And they're going to allow me to make a special mention of two people, María Teresa Fernández de la Vega, a reference for all the women in this country, and Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. [[Applauds]] Look, this is a difficult project that we're going to do with a sense of state. We know that we have the support of many parliamentary groups, but we have - which is more important to us - the support of all the socialist militants, of the socialist public offices, of the socialist voters, of those who are not socialist voters, but who trust in a project of change and progress. And that project of change and progress we're going to start working now. They will allow me to make a special mention of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I believe that in politics there are few honors such as being a spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, made up of men and women who have worked in this Parliament without ceasing; more than 25 thousand parliamentary initiatives; more than half of those that have been made in this House: initiatives, amendments, proposals for legislation. [[applause]] [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u3	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u4	It is a pity that this bench - which is now so noisy - and your Government have vetoed those proposals which seek to improve the lives of citizens, and especially those who need them most, pensioners, women and the unemployed. In that line we will continue to work. The parliamentary group has done so and will continue to do so with conviction, with strength, with responsibility, as we always do in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as the Socialist Party always does. [[Applauds]] There was - the candidate for President of the Government said yesterday - in our road map a motion of censure, but when on 24 May a sentence - yes, a sentence - was handed down in which very relevant things are said, we could not look elsewhere. That day we were waiting for something to be said from the Government, for responsibilities to be assumed. Nothing was said. We read the sentence, yes, we read the sentence - not many people have read it - and we realized that, in addition to the legal issues - in which we do not enter, because it is up to the courts - there were clear positions of proven facts - Mrs. De Cospedal, which are not reviewed in cassation - in which it was clearly stated that the President of the Government in his statement to the courts had failed the truth, that he had no credibility. That was also said by the prosecutor's office, so I was not surprised. I know perfectly well that Judge Pablo Ruz, when investigating the Gürtel summary, was subjected to a real calvary. Spain does not deserve a President of the Government who is not here today, thereby failing Parliament, and does not deserve a President of the Government who lacks the truth before the courts of justice, in addition to covering up corruption because, what credibility will a President of the Government absent from Parliament offer and who lacks the truth before the courts? Spain, before Europe and before the world, needs stability, needs credibility, and that cannot be given by a gentleman who is not able to be here today by appearing and fulfilling his obligation. [[Applauds]] That is why, from ethical demand, from democratic responsibility, because we believe that institutional regeneration is essential, because it is enough to cover corruption, we are going to start a new, difficult, complicated stage. We want to put citizens back at the core of political life, we don't want citizens to be ashamed of their politicians, we want them to see us as public servants committed to those who need it most, to pensioners, to dependents, to the unemployed, to those who have such a precarious job. Yesterday Mr. Rajoy said that 1500 jobs were created a day. But what jobs, Mr. Rajoy? You're in a restaurant and you don't know the reality of the street. [[Applauds]] Therefore, from the sense of state that has always characterized the Socialist Party, in government and in opposition, from ethical, institutional and democratic responsibility, we are going to work humbly, but putting the citizens at the first point of our concerns. We will do so with the help of all, and with generosity and great humility. Spain has to start a new stage in which no one can defend corruption, a new stage in which democratic regeneration and the problems that really matter to citizens are the point of view. It is enough for a president of the government to say when he is told about the wage gap: we do not get involved in this. [[Applauds]] We have to go very deeply because that is what the citizens are asking of us, and this is a call to the socialist voters and those who are not, to all the good people of this country, who want a better country, a country that will end those inequalities that you, gentlemen of the Government, have allowed. That is why, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, with the same strength, with the same vigour that we have worked on parliamentary initiatives, we are going to support the new government to build a better Spain, in favour of those who need it most. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government, Mr Sánchez. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that today we are signing a new page in the history of democracy in our country. Let's start writing his first paragraphs. We are doing so with the vote that will take place this morning, and to me, first of all, I would like to thank wholeheartedly all the parliamentary groups that have said yes to this motion of censure, which have said yes to demand a firm, strong democracy with exemplary institutions. [[Applauds]] In this thanks also I would like to acknowledge the pride of belonging to a party, the Socialist Party, and of being the candidate for the presidency of the government of a group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in which, over the past forty years, we have gone through difficult, complex moments; moments in which we have always been asked for the best, and I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you, together with the new government coming out of this motion of censure, will always put the general interests of the Spanish and Spanish people before even the interests of our party. [[Applauds]] So, thanks for your support, and thanks also to the proposing Member, the secretary of organisation, José Luis Ábalos, thanks to the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Margarita Robles, thanks to all of you, and I pick up the glove of the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, my colleague Margarita Robles. I believe that we have a very important task ahead of us, a task that has to do with social cohesion, to which we referred yesterday in the debate on the motion of censure. It is necessary to stabilize our country socially, to address the social emergencies that have been postponed in recent years by an ideology that has made precarious and unequal the common denominator of its economic policy, as well as the emergencies that have to do with gender sensitivity and that have to do with an environmental sensitivity that will greatly permeate the action of the new Government; democratic regeneration, budgetary stability, our commitment to Europe and of course also our commitment to territorial coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you - and with the parliamentary experience you have - that you will find your main support in the government, and that we will find our main support in the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, and to work. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the stand.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u7	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I rise to the rostrum after realizing the enthusiasm with which the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has defended Mr Sánchez's arguments, which as you have seen is hardly any. Ladies and gentlemen, during the 40 years of our democracy, Congress has attended the debate on four motions of censure, a parliamentary figure created to deal with exceptional situations of democratic instability. The first two were raised in situations of economic and social exceptionality for Spain, but neither the political, economic or social context of today are comparable to those of thirty-eight and thirty years ago. This is the second of this legislature: the two with just one year of difference, the two with the same background: none; the two with the same justification: none, and starred by them: the irresponsible and reckless left that still does not accept their defeat in the ballot box. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] It is, ladies and gentlemen, the new policy or the policy of the new. Today he is voting against the General Budgets of the State, but tomorrow he announces that he will comply with them. You have already humiliated your Members before, Mr Sánchez; first, you called them traitors for a abstention in President Rajoy's investiture, and now you call them incompetent for voting against budgets that we have agreed here by the various political forces. [[Applauds]] How far are you able to reach to cover your ambition? Ladies and gentlemen, this motion of censure is taking place at a crucial time for Europe and Spain, putting their political, economic and social stability at risk. It takes place when in Italy we are verifying the damage caused by political instability, forty-eight hours after this Government obtained the support of the absolute majority for the budgets, thereby ensuring the path of growth and employment, and just after the unity of the constitutionalists, through the application of article 155 of the Constitution, has allowed the preservation of the unity of Spain, preventing Puigdemont from re-establishing himself as president of Catalonia or that no fugitive or incarcerated is part of the Government in Catalonia; a unity that you, Mr Sánchez, today put in check to beg for the support of those who recently gave a coup d'état against the State, with whom we do not know what you have been able to compromise with. [[a Member of Parliament: Very well!-Applause]] Are you going to tell us today in exchange for what you're going to get the support of those gentlemen, Mr. Sánchez? Because that's the point. But in case I want to make it very clear to you what my group's position is, and it is that for the criminals there will be neither immunity nor impunity nor pardons, you agree what you agree, I tell you already in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to allow you to change the Penal Code, I tell you, I announce it. And now you have to ask yourself what really is, Mr Sánchez, the real objective of all this. You did not answer any of the government's questions yesterday, you did not present an alternative government, because you simply do not have a project for Spain. The reality is that we are here because Mr Sánchez wants to be President of the Government at any cost and whatever it costs. Mr Sánchez, still does not accept what the polls said in the years 2015 and 2016. And it's that you lost the elections, it's that you got the worst result in the history of your political party, it's that you, a year after you were here blocking the legislature, were able to make the results worse: 85 seats, Mr. Sánchez. Are you ever going to listen to the Spaniards and accept the democratic results of the elections, Mr Sánchez? [[Applauds]] No, he's not. He's gonna try again today, and I'm sure he'll get it, go to Moncloa by the back door. What a shame! Mr Sánchez, this motion of censure is a fraud. [[Rumors]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, they assume that the legitimacy to govern is granted by the Spaniards in the ballot box and not in the pacts of strangers in the offices. For the first time we can have a president of the government who did not win the elections, and who is not even in this House sitting, because you ran away. You're going to commit a fraud today. Our Constitution enshrined the motion of constructive censorship. We need a candidate and a viable programme, and you know that that is not possible with a Frankenstein Government and a Parliament with fifty-two seats less than the People's Party and with a Senate absolutely against, Mr Sánchez. Cessing a Government through a motion of censure only makes sense to the extent that the person who expresses it is prepared to assume the responsibility to govern on his own, and you are not prepared to assume that responsibility on your own. Do you think you could explain your exit from the constitutional bloc? Do you think that you will be able to explain the prices that you will have to pay for your new friends to your voters, your party partners or your European partners, with whom you certainly premiered in office by breaking the investiture agreement of the European institutions? If you want to govern it you will have to do it with the populists of Podemos, with those who talk a lot about corruption, but who are then saying already in the City of Madrid, in pre-election campaign, that to see if cooperatives are created to plunder the funds of the city, it will not be that in the next elections they throw them out. [[Applauds]] Mr. Churches, I ask you to speak with a little more dignity of my party. I already know that you were a young revolutionary and that now you are just a little bourgeois with a cottage and swimming pool. [[Applauds]] Things have changed, but that is a clear example of the prosperity of this country, that Spain is doing better, even for you, Mr. Iglesias. When you speak of the veracity of what the judges say, Mr. Iglesias, I have to ask you: is it true what a judge says when he declares that it is probable that you collected 450 000 euros from a dictatorship, is it more, from the dictatorship of Mr. Maduro? That's true, and what they say about other people, isn't it? [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you will also have to rule with those whom you have called coupsmen, with the lords of the PDeCat and the Republican Left of Catalonia. When you see Mr. Torra, are you going to tell him that he's racist and supremacist or are you going to forget all that? Are you going to change your speech already? Yesterday he was telling us about Catalonia trying to blame the People's Party for what's going on there. You never take any responsibility, but you read the history of Spain and you will see that for many years now political parties in Catalonia also gave two coups d'état, both against the Republic: in 1931 and in 1934. This is nothing new today, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Finally, what is undoubtedly a serious affront is that you are willing to receive Bildu's votes. We must have a very large quail and a very big shame too, Your Honor. [[A lady MP: There! There!-Applause.-Protests.]] With the old friends of the ETA, with those votes you are going to be president of the government today too! I don't know if he's gonna be able to look at ETA's victims. [[Several Members: Of course!-Protests]] I, in your case, wouldn't be able to. No one, not even Mr Zapatero, was able to accept those votes to be President of the Government. [[Applauds]] Is it really worth it, Mr. Sánchez, all this to culminate in your personal ambition? Are you really willing to assume a government with extremists, radicals and independenceists who want to end the project of Spain that we have built among all? What is he really willing to do? Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, I have always regarded you as people of my word. I was wrong, I have to admit it. [[Rumors]] I know that times have changed and that unfortunately you return to the times of Ibarretxe. Mr. Esteban, I think you're going down the wrong road. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has neither shown nor is going to show any complacency with corruption. We have already taken action and assumed political responsibilities. We already did. We already apologize at the time and humbly ask for it, and today we do so again for all those who have been involved with our party and have been convicted of corruption crimes. We're all outraged, and we're more outraged, because it hurts us more than anyone. Today all these are outside the People's Party. But, Mr Sánchez, gentlemen of the PSOE, I am still waiting for you to do something similar to the corruption cases of your party that flood all of Spain. [[Applauds]] More than 700 cases, more than 1500 accused, more than 6 billion defrauded. What do you have to say to this today, Mr. Sanchez? But if you have even agreed with those of three percent; you have agreed with those of three percent, who have seized their seats. You are together with the PDECAT the only two parties in Spain sentenced to a final sentence for corruption, the only ones! [[Applauds]] They're still going to allow me to clarify some things about the sentence, the alleged cause that brings us here today. I want to tell you a few things. The sentence is not final and we're going to appeal it. If we win the appeal, will you resign, Mr. Sanchez? He said yes, I take the word from you; I take the word from you, he said yes. Good. The ruling exempts the People's Party from any criminal offence. The party that exclusively affects him is his civil liability, which explains with absolute clarity that the party had not known or participated in the crime. The penalty or fine imposed on my party is 60 000 euros. It delimits all the responsibility of the People's Party to what happened only in the Madrid municipalities of Pozuelo and Majadahonda. The events took place between 1999 and 2005. In short, Mr Sánchez, facts other than the administration of the People's Party government that has been in office since 2011. No member of the People's Party government has been convicted or involved in a corruption process! And you can't say the same thing, Mr. Sanchez! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are justifying this motion of censure not in a sentence but in a manipulation of a sentence, Mrs Robles has again done so here today. You're manipulating a sentence to try to say what you're not saying. I will not be the one to refer here today to the political background of one of the magistrates, Mr. De Prada, candidate of the United Left to preside at the time of Mr. Zapatero the Criminal Chamber of the National Audience, nor to his tune with the protera world, nor to his statements when he claimed that terrorists were tortured at the National Audience. I will confine myself to the legal aspects. First of all, to tell Mrs. Robles not to lie. What you have mentioned is not in the proven facts, Your Honor, it is only in the foundations of law, it is not in the pages to which you have referred, do not lie that you are a judge. Don't lie, please. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ruling does not condemn the People's Party or the Government, it is not accused of any crime because it has not been committed, and that is why you are trying to justify it with considerations that have not been subjected to knowledge or prosecution, and that therefore do not allow defence capacity, Mrs Robles. [[Mr Floriano Corrales: Indefension, of course]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the particular vote is very hard, so there was pressure to try to publish the judgment before there was a particular vote and the budget debate here was dynamite, right, Mrs Robles, right? [[Mr. Floriano Corrales: There, there.]] Of course I do, of course I do. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, judges are not infallible. Mrs. Robles, judges are not infallible, not even you. Do you remember that you handed down a sentence against Ahmed Tommouhi and sentenced him to fifteen years for rape? A rape I hadn't committed. [[Rumors]] People are wrong, so are judges. [[Mr. Floriano Corrales: The judges are wrong. The judges are wrong]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PP government can never be accused of disdain, complacency or failure to bear responsibility for corruption because it has been this government... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u9	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u10	...who has approved the largest package of democratic regeneration measures. Here who makes the pay, and does not cover anyone, does not happen as before. Moreover, we have laid the foundations for the corrupt to return to the last cent stolen, and we did so with their vote against and without Mr Rivera or Mr Iglesias being in this House. Mr Ábalos, I agree with you: corruption generates inequality and poverty, so when you ruled in this country 3.5 million jobs were destroyed, among other things. That is why where you have been ruling for forty years, the Andalusian Autonomous Community, is the autonomous community with more cases of corruption in the history not of Spain but of Europe, Mr Ábalos. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr. Rivera, does this deserve any thought? Because you support all that, Mr. Rivera. The motion of censure, therefore - I insist - has no cause or justification. We already know what the situation of this Parliament is; we already knew from the outset that there was a minority majority with the lowest number of support in the history of democracy. So, we tried to govern through dialogue and made some agreements with you until you arrived and returned to 'no is no' and you couldn't turn away, it's true - and I thank you for that - of at least arbitrating a majority to curb the coup. Unfortunately, today you are no longer on that front; today you have already left with them. But let me tell you something, Mr. Rivera, today too. You have been a necessary collaborator of this motion of censure. You have held false accusations against the Government and contributed to its destabilization. [[applause.-Several Members: Yes!]] [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs]] Yes, yes, you have contributed to destabilizing him. Yes, asking for early elections with the usual media collaboration. His disloyalty to end this legislature is the one that has paved the way for Mr Sánchez. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs]] Yes, Mr. Rivera, don't be afraid; don't hyperventilate, Mr. Rivera. You wanted elections at all costs, but your maneuvers have only served to generate more instability in Spain and open a crisis of serious consequences and uncertain solution. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz points to the seat of the President of the Government]] It seems a lie that you haven't learned from what happened in Catalonia. You also called for elections urgently and quickly, and those elections were held. And you won the election. Well, not you, Mrs. Arrimadas. And what was it for? [[One Member: You're welcome.-Applause]] You're welcome, Mr. Rivera. You, with thirty-five seats... yeah, yeah, don't make scarecrows, if I'm going to follow, don't worry. [[Mr. Rivera Díez makes signs of 'follow, follow']] [[Applauds]] You, with thirty-five seats, Mr Rivera, could have opened a period of dialogue with other constitutionalist political formations to look for a President of Parliament who was not Mr Torrent and did not want to do so. [[Sir.]] [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: We did it]] You could have proposed an alternative majority; you could have proposed Mrs Arrimadas to be a candidate for an investiture, but you did not leave her; you could have asked her thirty-five Members that instead of preventing the PP from having a group in that Parliament from doing their job to control from there TV3 or to stimulate the change of educational laws. But he didn't want to either. For you it was easier to blame President Rajoy for everything and not to assume any responsibility there, deceiving about the actual scope of an article 155 that allows for intervention and administration, but that meant assuming a government in office that lacked executive or legislative capacity. You there have been handled with a remarkable incompetence. Mr Rivera, how is it possible that you have held the government of the nation, of Spain, responsible for events that happened in 2003 in the municipalities of Madrid, Pozuelo or Majadahonda, where you live? How is it possible that you did it? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: A Judge, Justice]] You, however, act as an accomplice in Andalusia. There you have no pain in garments that Mrs. Susana Díez withdraws or withdraws from the private prosecution. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Exactly]] You don't care, you've allowed it and you haven't said anything. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: He'll be here soon.-A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] You have not put the cry in heaven for what has happened or happened in Andalusia every day, with what is discovered in Andalusia, now with the Faffe using high offices of the socialist administration in Andalusia cards to leave prostitutes. What a level! [[applause in the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress]] Mr. Sanchez, I'm coming back to you. If the two former presidents of your party are convicted in court, will you resign? [[Rumors]] If any court finally decides to sit the current president of your party, Mrs. Narbona, on the bench, will you resign? Will you ask Mr. Ábalos... [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón makes negative signs]] I see you're saying no, okay. Will you ask Mr Ábalos to explain to us once and for all the illegal financing of the Socialist Party of the Valencian Community with funds obtained from three ministries of the government of Mr Zapatero, from which his party in Valencia was profited and also that of Mr Baldoví, who I do not know where he is? [[Mr. Baldoví Roda makes hand gestures from the seat.-Applause in the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Mr Sánchez, you came here yesterday, making excuses, asking Mr Rajoy to resign, a resignation trap to return to that situation in which you feel comfortable, in the situation where there is a government in office in Spain, a government that can do nothing. Mr Sánchez, about this some doubts have been raised in the public opinion that I would like you to reveal to me today. If Mr Rajoy had resigned, would you undertake today to have his deputies repeat the same political position they had in 2016 abstaining from a candidacy by the People's Party? Would you? [[Rumors.-Several Members: Answer]] Mr. Rivera, would you allow this government or that candidate to last and not have to call early elections? Ladies and gentlemen, I've seen your faces. I know you don't, so you guys stop lying about your stuff and stop fooling the Spanish people. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Do not pretend to tell him now with a resignation trap that this was going to fix things or that there was going to be a government that won the elections. No, that's not in your head, Mr. Sanchez. In his head he is only violating the democratic mandate of citizens to be president anyway. This is what is clear. Don't blame anyone else, let alone Mr. Rajoy. So, Mr. Sanchez, explain the truth. Mr Rivera, you're the gentleman of medals, stop being the lord of occurrences because occurrences of this type, which we've been reading all of and we listened to yesterday, we already know they don't lead anywhere. Stop gesticulating and be relaxed. I don't know what's going on with you, he spends all day gesticulating. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to adopt budgets that respect the Spanish, that respect the young, the elderly, the self-employed, the families and the most vulnerable, the social partners, the civil servants, the autonomous communities and the local authorities, the state pacts signed by the rest of the parliamentary groups, with you, Mr Rivera, especially and I thank you on this matter, indeed, for your loyalty. Not in others, but in this yes. In addition, it meets one of the People's Party's DNA, which is lowering taxes when it can. These are the budgets that we would have liked to make in 2012, when we had to face the legacy that the Socialist Party and Mr Zapatero left us, also remembered today by Mrs Robles. Ladies and gentlemen, the stability, growth and employment that this government has promoted have enabled 2.5 million Spaniards to find employment in the last five years. And we know that another 500 000 can be created this year, but the consequences of political instability also have economic consequences, and also have consequences for the government. I believe that a Frankenstein Government such as you, Mr Sánchez, is really a threat to the future of the Spanish and we are already beginning to pay for its consequences. These days the Spanish stock exchange has lost EUR 35 billion due to instability and uncertainty. Yesterday Mr. Baldoví came here and said, "But how do you complain if the bag is coming up?" Yeah, until they found out the PNV was going to support you. Again 10 billion more losses! Mr. Baldoví, let's see if you find out. [[Applauds]] If you really cared about Spain and the Spaniards, if this was the real object of the motion of censure, you would never have intended to accept Bildu's votes. I'm telling you. Doesn't it embarrass you? What Spain needs is stability and stability neither the motions nor the governments in office nor a situation of election after election. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreements are what they do, which is what we have been doing here for some time. That is why I ask you to withdraw the motion, Mr Sánchez; if you have any dignity left, withdraw the motion today. [[Rumors]] It cannot be said, as you have said, that this is a constitutional response. No, ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution was not intended to cause those who had lost the elections to aspire to preside over the Government. For forty years all this is something that we have all respected in this House, until you have arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not forgotten what Mr Zapatero's PSOE left us, the one Mrs Robles praised. In 2011, the President of the Government encountered the greatest economic, social and institutional crisis in our democracy. Spain as a whole was sinking; the future of almost 9 million pensioners was at stake; the benefits of more than 6 million unemployed people; universal health and public education; and, ultimately, the viability of the welfare state itself that had cost us so much to build among all. At that time 220 000 small and medium-sized enterprises were closed; 250 000 self-employed had to close; the State accumulated a commercial debt in the drawers of 82 billion euros; 3.5 million Spaniards lost their jobs, of which 1.5 were women; the number of unemployed between sixteen and twenty-four years was increased by more than 54 %; Social Security entered red numbers; salaries were lowered for civil servants and pensions were frozen. But thanks to the effort and solidarity of all the Spaniards, I insist, with the solidarity of all the Spaniards, the government of Mariano Rajoy managed to avoid the rescue, reverse the economic situation, secure and strengthen our welfare state and face firmly the challenge of those who want to break Spain. Spain not only did not sink, but it again floated, strengthened and leading growth and job creation in Europe. Spain that leaves the PP is very different from Spain that leaves the PSOE. 2.5 million Spaniards have found employment; the number of households with all their unemployed members has been reduced by 664 000; 212,000 young people under the age of 25 have found employment; we have recovered all the female employment destroyed in the crisis and there are more women with jobs than ever - more women with jobs than ever before, I say this because that is where the sensitivity towards women is demonstrated - and the wage gap between men and women has also narrowed and, in particular, between retirees and retirees, thanks to a reform that has made women pensioners who had children in very difficult times premium themselves. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, 240 000 self-employed people have opened up new businesses; we have reduced taxes above all to the middle classes and the most vulnerable, which has meant €93 billion more in Spanish pockets. That was done between 2014 and 2015, some were not yet here. Therefore, from my parliamentary group we are deeply proud and satisfied with the serious, responsible, sound and balanced work of the Government of Mariano Rajoy at the head of Spain. You're not going to humiliate us, Mr. Sanchez, you're not going to get it. [[Applauds]] This is today's Spain, quite different from yesterday's Spain, in which you left the Spaniards plunged into bankruptcy, ruin and despair. Today, from this rostrum I want to say again that I am proud to be of the People's Party, very proud. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Mr Rallo Lombarte utters words that are not perceived]] Don't be mean, Mr. Rallo. [[A Member of Parliament: Let him go, let him go!]] I don't understand that this could bother you. [[Rumors]] I'm on it. I am very proud to have a president like Mariano Rajoy, I really tell you, who has worked courageously and tirelessly to rebuild the country that the Socialist Party left desolate. [[applause]] The People's Party is made up of honest, hardworking and committed people who work in the service of Spain every day and have their best example in the work of our president. [[rumors]] A president who is not hostage to anyone; no one or anything. Because Mariano Rajoy is a responsible man, he is an honest person, committed, moderate, open to dialogue. A great parliamentarian. A man convinced of his values and given to the public service for the love, respect and patriotism he feels towards his country, which is Spain. A country, Mr Sánchez, of men and women, a nation of laws. To make corruption a general cause against the whole People's Party is not just to question it, ladies and gentlemen, it is to question a serious and undefeated government to which I have to thank, and I believe that on behalf of my group and all the Spaniards, for having done what they have done. [[Applauds]] The 137 Members - you will allow me, Mr Alli, to include you as well ; Isidro, also you; 147 Senators; 7 Presidents of Autonomous Communities; 392 Members of the Autonomy; 15 Presidents of the Parliament; 2400 mayors; 8800 councillors; and 860,000 members who are what the People's Party is. [[The Lord]] [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen, putting mud on all these people is unworthy, false and unjust. And here I also include those who have criminalized the People's Party and its government by promoting the spread of magical solutions that some propose. They are also responsible for us being faced with this situation today and for the consequences that it will have for the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has been, is and will always be a decisive party for the history of Spain. We have contributed to their democratic construction, to their economic and social progress, to their Europeanism and to improving the lives of millions of Spaniards. When the People's Party governs Spain and the Spaniards are doing well, that is the reality despite who weighs it and we have demonstrated it in these seven years of our party's government with Mariano Rajoy at the front. We will continue to defend Spain from all and for all from anywhere, from where the Spaniards put us. Spain of the Constitution, modern and democratic Spain, which continues to give us the best years of our history. Spain where the important thing is the well-being of families to improve their lives, the future of young people to find quality jobs in their country and the tranquility of the elderly so that they always have their pensions insured. Spain has strong, committed and supportive values. Spain in which the People's Party believed and President Mariano Rajoy believed seven years ago when no one else here in this country did. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, after listening to your speech, the question I would like to ask you is whether you do not wonder why no one wants to accompany you, not even your partner in government. [[Rumors]] I can understand, ladies and gentlemen, the irritation arising from the situation that is being experienced at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, with the materialization of the vote that will take place in a few minutes. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u13	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u14	I can understand even the irritation resulting from the helplessness and the orphanhood that your leader, at the time when the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group is speaking, is not here supporting your parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] I can understand it; I can understand it. However, Mr. Spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, the motion of censure, the constitution of the Government which will be derived as a result of this motion of censure, is constitutional and perfectly legitimate, as a result of article 113 of the Spanish Constitution. This is the parliamentary democracy that we have acquired as a result of that Constitution. And I will also tell you, Mr. Spokesman, that the motion of censure will be backed by parliamentary groups representing 12 million citizens. [[Applauds]] I understand the irritation, which was also very predictable, Mr Hernando. It is true that you - I told the President of the Government yesterday in the debate that we held -, when there is a second risk that you may lose power, as it will happen, you will pull out all the evils, the whole course of the ten plagues on the left, and in particular the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Of course, the first and most important, and to which I would like to refer in the first place, is the economic situation. Mr Hernando, I am not going to use arguments that were already used yesterday with the President of the Government, with the President of the Government today, but it is clear that the evolution of the risk premium has nothing to do with what is happening in this country. [[Protests.-Several Members: Nooo!]] Associate yourself to the international media, see exactly what is the problem that is being experienced in Italy. Therefore, as a party of government which are, not as an opposition party - which even from the government also make opposition - even if they are in opposition, please know, ladies and gentlemen, that any kind of statement that makes ministerial officials or also its spokesman what it is doing is precisely damaging the general interests and economic interests of this country. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] I pick up your glove, Your Honor, and I say to you that the government that emerges from this motion of censure will have as its main priority to comply with European commitments, to ensure budgetary stability, macroeconomic stability and to comply with the agreement of this House, that is, to implement the General Budgets of the State for 2018 and to try to have General Budgets of the State for 2019 in time and form, which is precisely what you have not guaranteed when you have had the opportunity to do so. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, we are once again talking about territorial discourse and using territorial confrontation again. I say to you, Mr Hernando, that what I hope from the People's Parliamentary Group is that it is as loyal to the new socialist government as the Socialist Party has been, from the opposition, to the People's Party government. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u16	Now, what I am not going to allow you, Mr Hernando, but also not to enter into a debate, but simply to make it appear in the Journal of Sessions, is that you use the argument of terrorism with an organization that has suffered the outbreak of terrorism. [[Applause. - Several Members say words that are not perceived.]] Today, the President of the Government accused former President Zapatero of betraying the victims and kneeling before the terrorists. [[Mrs. Blanco Garrido: Yes, yes!-Rumors]] Shortly afterwards ETA murdered a socialist companion, Isaiah Carrasco. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] What is clear that there will be difficulties in the action of the Executive? Of course. Is it clear that this Executive is born in exceptional circumstances caused by its lack of political responsibility? [[Rumors]] Of course I do. You ask me a question, Mr Hernando, and I understand that it is a rhetorical question, because, with that tone, persuasive, persuasive the truth is that you have not aspired to be. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] I must admit to you, Mr Spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, that I agree with you on two things, one I will tell you now and the other at the end of my speech. The first is the criticism of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group as to its inaction and how it has been hidden in Catalan politics. They won the election, but it's been like futility made reality. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: With Esquerra we don't agree]] He has done absolutely nothing, because he lives from confrontation, that is, emulates on many occasions what you do, which is living from territorial confrontation, living from reproach, living from territorial aggravation. [[rumors]] I hope that you, as a governing party that you are, who have been victims of that strategy that you led in the opposition a few years ago, when the Socialist Party ruled, have learned, precisely because you have been victims of that parliamentary strategy when you were in the opposition. I will also tell you one thing, Mr Hernando, to put things on your right terms and to do justice to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and not to reproach me for actually telling you that they have been hidden in Catalan politics. It is true that they have hidden themselves in Catalan politics, but it is also true that they have covered up the corruption of the People's Party in the Community of Madrid, Murcia and La Rioja by supporting different governments of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I say it more than anything so that we put everything on its fair terms. [[Protests.-A lady deputy: Andalucia!]] As I said, there is indeed going to be a difficulty for the Executive because of the extraordinary situation in which it is born, in which it is going to be constituted, but something I said to the House yesterday, and that is that this is the usual point right now in many European democracies: very fragmented parliaments and governments which, in fact, have to work for consensus through dialogue. What is not in Europe, Mr Hernando, are governments led by parties sentenced by the courts. What is happening in Europe are governments - as in Germany - in which, for example, people who have exercised ministerial responsibilities and who have been found to have plagiarized a thesis what they have done have been resigning. [[Protests]] In short, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, what I want to say to you... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u17	Silence, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u18	What I want to tell you is that you should have assumed your political responsibility and not caused this situation and this institutional crisis, which in the end has been answered by the legitimate and democratic channels marked by the Spanish Constitution. The Spanish Constitution is not only article 155, but also article 113. Therefore, as a party defending the Constitution and the social and democratic rule of law, what we have had to do has been to present this motion of censure. I just want to make a recommendation to you, Mr Hernando and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. I don't know what kind of opposition you're going to make. [[Rumors]] If the opposition you are making is the one you have expressed in the rostrum, all I can assure you, Mr Hernando, is that you are doomed to irrelevance. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Protests.]] I'll tell you, in any case, Mr. Hernando, there's been one thing I do agree with you. I told the President of the Government of Spain yesterday and I also told his ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and I have to tell you - and this is true - that it is not a homogeneous and common opinion in my party, the Socialist Party. I think the People's Party is not a corrupt party, I really do. I don't think it is. [[Protests]] No, I don't think it is. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I believe that there are militants, that there are Members, that there are councillors, that there are people who perform and defend their task and the model of society that defends their ideology in an honest and clean way, but it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the leadership of the People's Party has consented to or lived with corruption. [[Applauds]] And I agree with you, Mr Hernando, that the People's Party is an extremely important party for this country's political system - I repeat -, which is extremely important for this country's political system. And believe me, the task you have ahead is going to be difficult, it's going to be hard, but the first thing you have to do is renew your leadership, regenerate and represent that conservative Spain that wants to see clean and exemplary leaders at the head of the People's Party. [[rumors]] Thank you. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u19	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u20	Thank you, President. Mr. Sanchez, you haven't answered anything I asked you. Would you abstain from another candidate? Obviously not. Then, please, I ask you to clarify to the Spaniards that when you were asking for Mr Rajoy's resignation, the only thing you were pretending to do was humiliate him once again, as you also intended during the morning. [[Applauds]] I would ask you to have a little more respect for Mr Rajoy, because he is not the one examined here; he is examined by you. What's your government program? Ladies and gentlemen, have you heard any measure of your own government programme, beyond the implementation of the People's Party budget, that budget on which your spokesmen have spoken intensely? Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote no to the budget because it consolidates a minimum social state; you, Pedro Sánchez, say so. Are you going to allow that or not now? I see you don't look very good. These are continuous budgets, consistent with the economic policy of cuts proposed by the People's Party Government; you said that too, Mr Sánchez, but you will apply them to see if you vote for the PNV, right? Good. I'm not going to say what the secretary of organization was already saying about them or what Mrs. Robles was saying, because I'd be here all morning reading disqualifications, but, look, do you know what the problem you have? Indeed, it has a problem of democratic origin. It's just that the Spaniards told you they don't want him! They don't want him! You've lost votes and seats every time you show up! He's done his game! They don't want him! [[Applauds]] You come now and you say to me: No; I come here with twelve million votes. Sure! I know! If that's what I told you this morning! Come with Bildu's votes too! Why is it embarrassing for you to recognize him? Who are Bildu's? [[Applauds]] The old friends of the terrorist band ETA. Of course, ladies and gentlemen! I understand that this feels bad to you, and that you don't want to talk about this, and you don't want to really explain to us what your program is and what it's going to do. Who is more irrelevant in this House - will you recognize it - a group that has 85 seats or one that has 137 seats? What is the relevance of your group in the Senate, Mr. Sanchez? Well, insignificant; insignificant, like you. Mr. Sánchez, you have spoken of corruption and have come here to forgive me my life - it seems to be - this morning saying: No, if you are not corrupt. But well, if you've been saying the opposite all your life, if you've joined all this corruption; corruption depends on who, because you did your campaign, your primarys with crowdfunding and your party's treasurer said it was illegal financing. Are you going to answer for this? Are you going to explain this to us? Are you going to tell the Spaniards about this? Or doesn't this count, Mr. Sanchez? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this does not count the macro-fraud of the EREs: EUR 1 billion spent to finance a customer network, money from the unemployed who were so worried about Mr Ábalos yesterday, money from the unemployed to do what we have all known. Two former national presidents of his party. What happens when there's a sentence? What about the fraud of the fake invoices of the union UGT of Andalusia, the fraud of Invercaria, the fraud of Jeremie, the case Avales, the fraud Plan Bay Competitive, the case Marismas... Look, I'd be here all morning counting your cases, and I wouldn't be enough. But if you have stolen money from the entrances of The Alhambra of Granada! If that's what they've come to! Man, for God's sake! Man, for God's sake! [[Applauds]] Mrs Lastra, in Asturias you also have some cases that affect the Asturian government of the Socialist Party. So, a little more seriousness, a little more attenuation and a little more clarity. I'm asking for clarity. What are you going to grant to those who support you today to support you today and continue to support you tomorrow? This is what you have to explain to the Spanish. What is he willing to give them? We already know this about the good stuff, the dialogue, the what; we have been in this House for a long time so that you can come and surprise us, but what are you going to do? Why do people like those of the PDECAT and Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia, who have questioned the 155, who say in this House that what they like is the justice of Brussels, insulting all the Spanish justice and our entire judicial system, seem to them, as allies, to carry on what you are going to do this morning? Why do you like this? What have you done? What don't you want to tell this morning? [[Applauds]] This is what you should be willing to answer. I'm not going to go into the depths of their governments in the past, but many of them had to be fixed by us. Yes, yes; from the invoices in the drawers to the institutions that had no money to pay to the suppliers, the millions of people in unemployment, the despair of many Spanish families, the increase in inequality between Spanish, basically because they lost their job or the favors that the Zapatero government did to the bank. Those were good favors!, those that allowed them to issue preference, ground clauses, bank derivatives... The puffs you left us at the light rate, do you remember, that you were the spokesperson for the thing? 60% more expensive the light and a tariff deficit of 12 billion euros per year thanks to the premiums and some issues that were introduced in the light tariff to pay certain favors. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. You are going to try to govern with the budgets that we have approved here seven political formations. You want to take advantage of the effort we have made by other parliamentary groups. That is called parasitism; taking advantage of the effort and work of others is called parasitism. [[Applauds]] This is what you told us yesterday, how you're going to do parasitism. I don't think that's a good way to start. We started a complex legislature and tried to overcome it with dialogue, but you and others have set up a genuine coven, after a judgment that is not firm, to try to overshadow the government's action and get to where you wanted to get in 2016, but your party did not leave you. You'll remember: he was taken out of the window. Now he's got it. Now, the Members who were then traitors, are no longer. Now they're going to vote for him. Now those who had not even dared to give a coup d'état in 2016 are good at supporting you. Now also Bildu's are good to support you. I don't know, Your Honor, what's going to happen or how you're going to govern, what I do know is that you're not going to be able to do it right. Look, in 1981, a president - like Mr Rajoy - stopped being president after a brutal media and political harassment. Years later, some reminded him of being the best president of Spain. It was Mr. Suárez. Today Mr Rajoy will leave the Presidency of the Government because of the imposture of another similar harassment operation, but he must do so and he will do so with his head very high. He is a great president, an honest and honest person, a politician who has always been at the service of others. To you, Mr. President - who is listening to me, and I know it - the Spaniards are not going to throw out, they are going to throw out those who lost the elections in 2011, 2015 and 2016. Those are the ones who are going to kick him out. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Gladstone said that politics is the best way to serve humanity. Me, after seeing what I saw here yesterday and this morning, I doubt it. Forgive me, Mr. Sanchez. Today you are going to write a story, in my opinion, of shame, because not everything is worth in politics. You are a President who has fled this Parliament, who has left his parliamentary group and who is not even a Member today. It is the first time in the history of this country that there is going to be a president who is not a Member, and this, ladies and gentlemen, seems significant to me, because it opens a new stage in the democracy of this country, it opens a new stage in which everything goes to reach power. Neither democracy nor the opinion of the citizens are respected. [[Mr Ábalos Meco: Man!-Rumors.-Various Members: No!-Various Members: Yes!]] No; it is not respected, ladies and gentlemen, nor the result of the ballot box. We have fallen into the worst part of a policy that we have already seen what has resulted in some municipalities and autonomous communities: pacts in the offices to try to usurp or alter the sense of democracy; dark pacts that you do not dare to reveal today. This, Your Honor, makes you a doubting president and a president with many incognites, who has also come to power through an enormously cheating procedure. I'm so sorry, Mr. Sanchez. Do not count on my parliamentary group to help you on this journey. I tell you that we will continue to see you here, you from where you are and us with 137 seats here, in the House, and absolute majority in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I will first address the People's Parliamentary Group and then the House as a whole. I would like to make the same point to the Group of the European People's Party as I did yesterday and which I made to Mr Hernando earlier in my first speech. I think it would be important for you to reflect on what has happened. I think it would be important for you to reflect on how you have been victims of your own strategy, first in the opposition and then from the government. I think they should reflect, as a party of government, and assume their responsibility, because they cannot question the certainties that exist in our economy or the certainties of the strength of democracy, which today has again given an example... [[Rumors.-A lady deputy: Democratic!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u23	Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u24	... assuming the political responsibility that the Government in Spain has not assumed in the form of resignation. I also believe that you should reflect again on the territorial issue. The problem is that you from the opposition used Catalonia. They also used the Basque Country; otherwise, but they used it. They have used the Basque Country and Catalonia, saying that they wanted to govern Spain with Catalonia inside, but not listening to Catalonia, and I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, that this Government wants Catalonia to be in Spain and that it will listen to Catalonia. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Secondly, Mr Hernando, although the People's Parliamentary Group is currently living in a complicated, difficult situation, I - and believe me, I tell you with total sincerity - on all those issues that have to do with the State, with constitutional coexistence, with respect for our Constitution and also with the position that the Government of Spain must express in its defence of the general interests of the Community institutions and the European Union, I will always reach out to the main opposition group, in this case to the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will carry out the same opposition that the Socialist Group did while in the opposition. To him who will cease to be President of the Government, to Mr Rajoy - I said it yesterday and I say it again today - I wish him the best personally; politically, logically, he becomes former President of the Government. [[Rumors]] I know it is not, but I would like to say just a few words to you to tell you that you have my respect as the former President of the Government of Spain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u25	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u26	Finally, I address the House. I believe that a new time is opening up in Spanish politics. [[Rumors]] I think we have a chance worth exploring... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u27	Wait a minute, Mr. Sanchez. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u28	I extend my hand to all the parliamentary groups, expressing my thanks once again to the parliamentary groups that have supported this motion of censure to open up this new time. I hope that we all live up to our responsibilities ahead for the good of our country. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Members. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up.-Applause from the candidate for the Presidency of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, turned to the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.- Mr Hernando Fraile asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u29	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u30	I'm not going to go on this shift anymore because I think it's all said. Today you win and you lose Spain. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government, standing]] Thank you very much. [[Mr President of the Government, Rajoy Brey, enters the Chamber.- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government, stood up.- Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: President! President! President!-A Member: There are many of us, President!- Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, candidate for the presidency of the Government, asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u31	Thank you. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u32	I am simply speaking, Madam President, to respond to the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group who is winning democracy today. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.- Mr President of the Government, Rajoy Brey, asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u35	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. In view of what we all know, we can assume that the motion of censure will come forward. Consequently, Mr Sánchez will be the new President of the Government and I want to be the first to congratulate him. It is this House that takes the decision and it is up to us all to abide by the mandate of popular sovereignty represented here. I will accept the result of the vote as a Democrat, but, as you know, I cannot share what has been done. It has been an honour - there is no greater - to have been President of the Government of Spain. It was an honor to leave a Spain better than the one I found. [[Applauds]] I wish my substitute could say the same in his day; I wish him well for the good of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I have fulfilled the fundamental mandate of politics, which is to improve people's lives. If anyone has felt offended or harmed in this House or outside it, I apologize. Thanks to everyone and, in a very special way, to my party, without which nothing would have been possible. [[Applauds]] Thank you to all the Spaniards for giving me their understanding and support, and luck to all of you for the good of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u37	Thank you very much. As previously announced, the meeting was suspended and there would be a vote at 11 a.m., 11 a.m. and 1 minute. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at 10.30 a.m. The meeting was resumed at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u38	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández and another eighty-three Members. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. I ask your ladies and gentlemen to remain silent throughout the vote. The appeal is made in alphabetical order but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot, who was Rivera Andrés, Irene. [[Rumors]] Quiet. The Government and the Bureau shall vote at the end. I ask the first Madam Secretary to begin the vote. The first, second, third and fourth secretaries of the Bureau are calling on the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'yes': Robles Fernández, Margarita. Rodriguez García, Isabel. Rodriguez Hernández, Juana Amalia. Rodriguez Martínez, Angela. Rodriguez Ramos, Maria Soraya. Rodriguez Rodriguez, Alberto. Romingora Salazar, Maria del Mar. Rufian Romero, Gabriel. Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia. Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos. Salvador and Duch, Jordi. Sánchez Amor, José Ignacio. Sanchez Melero, Tania. Sánchez Serna, Javier. Santos Itoiz, Eduardo. Saura García, Pedro. Close Parent, David. Serrano Jiménez, Maria Jesus. Serrano Martínez, José Enrique. Sibine Camps, Marta. Sicilia Enferez, Felipe Jesús. Simancas Simancas, Rafael. Six Churches, Ricardo. I sorli Fresquet, Marta. Sumelzo Jordan, Susana. Surra Spadea, Ana Maria. Late i Coma, Joan. Terron Berbel, Ana Belén. Torres Mora, José Andrés. Tundador Moreno, Victoria Begoña. Urquizu Sancho, Ignacio. Valido Pérez, Carmen. Vendrell Gardeños, Josep. Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Noelia. Vidal Sáez, Aina. Old vineyard, Raimundo. Vila Gómez, Miguel. Xucla and Costa, Jordi. Yllanes Suárez, Juan Pedro. Zaragoza Alonso, José. Meco Shades, José Luis. Come on, Joseba Andoni. Alba Goveli, Nayua Miriam. Alconchel Gonzaga, Miriam. Alonso Cantorné, Felix. Alonso Clusa, Rosa Ana. Alvarez Alvarez, Angeles. Antón Cacho, Javier. Arévalo Caraballo, María Teresa. Spit it out, Pedro. Baldoví Roda, Joan. Ballester Muñoz, Angela. Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo. Barreda Fontes, José María. Fight and Ruiz, Enric. Batt Lamaña, Meritxell. Beitialarrangement Lizarralde, Marian. Nice Accensi, Ferran. Belarra Urteaga, Ione. Beautiful Acevedo, Pablo. Bescansa Hernandez, Carolina. Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia. Bosaho Gori, Rita Gertrudis. Botejara Sanz, Amparo. Botella Gómez, Ana Maria. Bustamante Martín, Miguel Ángel. Bustinduy Amador, Pablo. Camacho Sánchez, José Miguel. Villar Camera, Gregorio. Camp Moreno, Juan Carlos. Artisan Fields, Herick Manuel. Camp the Canadians, Carles. Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar. Candle Serna, Ignasi. Castro quarry, Zaida. Canamer Valle, Diego. She's in charge of Esteve, Joan. Chapel and Farre, Esther. Green Carracedo, José David. Valero carriage, Sara. Ciscar Casabán, Ciprià. Ciuro and Buldo, Lourdes. Courtesy Lastra, Ricardo. Cruz Rodríguez, Manuel. Perez neck, Carmen Rocío. From Madrazo Fruits, Maria del Rocío. De la Concha García-Mauriño, María Asunción Jacoba Pía. From the Encina Ortega, Salvador Antonio. Del Olmo Ibáñez, Juan Manuel. Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio. Diaz Pérez, Yolanda. Diaz Trillo, José Juan. Elorza González, Odón. Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier. Galvan error, ñigo. Esteban Bravo, Aitor. I'll do Fidalgo, Sonia. Fernández Bello, Miguel Anxo. Fernández Castañón, Sofia. Fernández Diaz, Jesús María. Fernández Gómez, Alexandra. Ferrer Treasure, Sonia. Florez Rodríguez, María Aurora. Franco Carmona, Isabel. Franchise Vera, Sebastian. Galeano Gracia, Oscar. Galovart Carrera, Maria Dolores. Garcia Mira, Ricardo Antonio. García Puig, Maria del Mar. Garcia Sempere, Eva. Spiny Garzón, Alberto. Gomez-Reino Varela, Antonio. Gonzalez Bayo, Josefa Immaculate. González García, Second. González Peláez, Natalia. González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel. González Veracruz, Maria. Guijarro García, Txema. Guillaumes and Ràfols, Feliu-Joan. Guinart Moreno, Lydia. Gutiérrez Limones, Antonio. Heredia Díaz, Miguel Ángel. Hernando Vera, Antonio. Hernanz Costa, Sofia. Hurtado Zurera, Antonio. Turrion Churches, Pablo. Jiménez Tortosa, Juan. Jordan and Roura, Teresa. Lamuà Estañol, Marc. Lasarte Iribarren, José Javier. Lastra Fernández, Adriana. The Uriarte Guard, Mikel. López Álvarez, Patxi. López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio. Lucio Carrasco, Maria Pilar. Luena López, Caesar. Luis Bail, Jorge. Marcello Santos, Ana. Martín González, María Guadalupe. Martín González, Lucia. Martínez Rodríguez, María Rosa. Martínez Seijo, María Luz. Matute García de Jalón, Oskar. Maura Zorita, Eduardo Javier. Mayor Perales, Rafael. Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio. Mena Arca, Joan. Merchán Mesón, Carlota. Miquel and Valenti, Sergi. Monereo Pérez, Manuel. Montero Gil, Irene Maria. Montero Soler, Alberto. Moya Matas, Jaume. Muñoz González, Pedro José. Nugueras and Camero, Miriam. Oloriz Serra, Joan. Palacín Guarné, Gonzalo. Pascual Peña, Sergio. Pastor Muñoz, Rosana. Peña Waiter, Esther. Perea and Conillas, María Mercè. Pérez Dominguez, María Soledad. Pérez Herraiz, Margarita. Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen. Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan. Postius Terrado, Antoni. Pradas Torres, Antonio. Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro. Rallo Lombarte, Artemi. Ramon Utrabo, Elvira. Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin. Ramos Jordan, Alicia. Raya Rodriguez, Maria Tamara. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'no': Rivera Andrés, Irene. Rivera de la Cruz, Marta Maria. Rivera Díaz, Albert. Roca Mas, Jordi. Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa. Rojas García, Carlos. Red Noguera, Pilar. Roldán Monés, Antonio. Romero Hernández, Carmelo. Romero Rodríguez, María Eugenia. Ruano García, Javier. Salvador Armendáriz, Carlos Casimiro. Salvador García, Luis Miguel. Santa Ana Fernández, María de la Concepción de. Suárez Lamata, Eloy. Tarno Blanco, Ricardo. Here's Oliver, Vicente. Torres Tejada, Maria. Tremino Gomez, Ignacio. Valmaña Ochaita, Silvia. Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén. Vera Pro, Juan Carlos. Villalobos Talero, Celia. Villegas Pérez, José Manuel. Viso Diéguez, Miguel Ángel. Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria. I'll take Penco, Pedro. Aguiar Rodríguez, Ernesto. Aguirre Rodríguez, Ramon. Alba Mullor, María Dolores. Albaladejo Martínez, Joaquín. Alberto Pérez, Celia. Alli Martinez, Íñigo Jesus. Alonso Díaz-Guerra, José Jaime. Alonso Hernández, Rachel. Hello López, Ana Isabel. Alvarez Palleiro, Felix. Angle Romero, Maria Teresa. Ayllón Manso, José Luis. Under Prieto, Maria Luz. Barrachina Ros, Miguel. Barreda de los Ríos, Leopoldo. Barrios Tejero, José María. Bastida Bono, Elena Maria. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio. White Garrido, Mrs. Mar. Blasco Marqués, Manuel. Bolarín Sánchez, María Dolores. Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus. Borrego Cortés, Isabel María. Bravo Baena, Juan. Kingdom heads, Isabel. Calvente Gallego, Javier. Camps Devesa, Gerardo. Candon Adam, Alfonso. Cano Fuster, José. Cano Leal, Francisco Javier. He sang García del Moral, Antonio. Carreño Fernández, Maria Ascension. Married White, Pablo. Martinez Falls, Loreto. Barber boy, José Maria. Clavell López, Oscar. Clement Giménez, Diego. Cute Bureta, Pilar. Balmaseda Cot, Mar. From Above Sanchez, Welcome. From Barrionuevo Gener, Avelino. From the Díaz Tower, Francisco. From Camp Estaún, Sergio. From the Sanz River, Emilio. Delgado Arce, Celso Luis. Diaz Gómez, Guillermo. You own Martinez, María del Carmen. Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio. Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta. Spain Queen, Carolina. Esteller Wheels, Maria Angeles. Faba de la Incarnation, Elena. Fernández Díaz, Jorge. Fernández García, Eduardo. Floriano Corrales, Carlos Javier. Fole Diaz, Tomás Javier. Gamazo Micó, Oscar. Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel. García Cañal, José Ramón. Garcia Diez, Joaquín Maria. Garcia Aegean, Teodoro. García Hernández, José Ramón. García-Margallo y Marfil, José Manuel. García-Pelayo Jurado, María José. García-Tizón López, Arturo. Vidal spin, Juan Carlos. Gomez Balsera, Martial. Gómez García, Rodrigo. González Guinda, María del Carmen. González Muñoz, Angel Luis. González Terol, Antonio. Gonzalez Vázquez, Marta. Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel. Hernandez Bento, María del Carmen. Hernando Fraile, Rafael Antonio. Herrero Bono, José Alberto. Hole Juliá, Bethlehem. Igea Arisketa, Francisco. Julià Julià, María Sandra. Juncal Rodríguez, Juan Manuel. Lara Carbo, Maria Teresa's. Llorens Torres, José Ignacio. Lopez Ares, Susana. Lorenzo Torres, Miguel. Luis Rodriguez, Theophilus of. Madrazo Díaz, Ana Maria. Marcos Dominguez, Pilar. Marcos Moyano, Maria Dolores. Marí Bosó, José Vicente. Marshal Anaya, Guillermo. Maroto Aranzábal, Javier. Martin Llaguno, Marta. Martínez González, José Luis. Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel. Martinez Saiz, Theophile. Martínez Vazquez, Francisco. Martinez-Maillo Toribio, Fernando. Martin-Toledano Suárez, José Alberto. I'll kill Sáez, Juan José. Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel. Mascareño Kills, Pablo. Maura Barandiaran, Fernando. Merino López, Rafael. Millán Salmerón, María Virginia. Hoyos miller, Francisco. Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra. Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria. Moreno Bustos, Ramon. Moreno Palanques, Ruben. I live Almaraz, Mary Jesus. Movellán Lombilla, Diego. Navarro Cruz, María del Carmen. Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez, Fernando. Navarro Lacoba, Carmen. Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de. Palmer Tous, Teresa. Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel. Pérez Aras, Juan Vicente. Pérez López, Santiago. Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín. Posada Moreno, Jesus. Postigo Quintana, Jesús. Quintanilla Barba, María del Carmen. Ramirez Freire, Saul. Reynés Calvache, Águeda. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'abstention': Oramas González-Moro, Ana María. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'yes' telematically: Cheers to the East, Maria Isabel. Honorato Chulián, Maria Auxiliadora. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'no' telematically: Heredia Martín, Silvia. Ladies and gentlemen of the government who voted 'no': Rajoy Brey, Mariano. Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, María Soraya. Catalá Polo, Rafael. From Cospedal García, María Dolores. Montoro Romero, Cristóbal Ricardo. Zoido Alvarez, Juan Ignacio. Mendez de Vigo Montojo, Íñigo. Báñez García, María Fatima. Nadal Belda, Álvaro María. García Tejerina, Isabel. Montserrat Montserrat, Dolors. Ladies and gentlemen of the Bureau who voted 'yes': Exposito Prieto, Marcelo. Gordo Pérez, Juan Luis. Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria. Navarro Garzón, Micaela. Ladies and gentlemen of the Bureau who voted 'no': Reyes Rivera, Patricia. Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, Alicia. Romero Sánchez, Rosa Maria. Take Take, José Ignacio. Pastor Julián, Ana Maria.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-01-CD180601.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 350; votes in favour, 180; votes against, 169; abstentions, 1. Having obtained the favourable vote of the absolute majority of the House, the motion of censure is approved, which, in accordance with rule 178 of the Rules of Procedure, will be brought to the attention of His Majesty the King and the President of the Government. According to the above-mentioned precept, the candidate included in that precept considers himself invested in the confidence of the Chamber for the purposes provided for in article 99 of the Constitution: don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Addressing Mr. Rajoy Brey]] Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Addressing Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United States]] The meeting rose. It was eleven and thirty-five minutes in the morning.
