ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u1	The meeting was resumed. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's opinion on the Statute of the Members on the declaration of the activities of the honourable Members. As agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, no parliamentary group will speak on this item and will therefore be put to the vote together with the other matters at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u2	We continue with the agenda item on the full debate on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary on the improvement of universal justice. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moro Almaraz. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we return to a debate that makes quantum paradoxes a joke. I'll explain immediately why I'm saying this. When some groups have allowed themselves to take the road to prevent the reforms that justice needs and that await thousands of professionals and all Spaniards, the road map based on selective derogations and convenience puts us on the road the proposal to repeal the latest reforms in the field of universal justice of Spanish legislation, formulated on this occasion by a political group that does not believe in Spain, that even the fight, that does not respect the Spanish justice, that does not miss the opportunity to express the worst qualifications or comparisons and that settles before the doors of the courts in an incomprehensible position of pressure on their actions. Some of you have been repeatedly talking about politicized justice comparable to that of South African apartheid, a justice that is not independent, that is arbitrary, defending the exclusion of Spain and the imposition of its political position on those who do not feel the same way, justifying non-compliance with the laws. [[shows a document]] Today, however, during all this time since it was taken into consideration, you choose as a priority of legislative policy a not so new and ineffective regulation of universal justice so that the Spanish courts act unlimitedly, without reparing with what effect, such as the Quixote of the 21st century, when on the other hand you defend that yours remain outside the Spanish rules and courts. [[Applauds]] Doesn't it seem paradoxical to you when it's the least? This is the reality of your initiative on which my group has tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text because, in spite of everything, we still want to build rather than destroy, improve rather than always look to the past, integrate rather than exclude. That is why this amendment is built to defend, instead of its return to a unrealistic past, the general maintenance of the current regulation in all that has a framework similar to our European partners and the first democracies of the world, complemented and improved with aspects that we propose to incorporate and that I will go on to detail at a time. The principle of universal justice, ladies and gentlemen, is an exception to the principle of territoriality, which in turn is a basic manifestation of the principle of criminal legality. The Supreme Court judgement 327/2003, inter alia, warned that the exercise of jurisdiction cannot contravene other principles of public international law or operate when there is no point of direct connection with national interests. It is not for any particular State to unilaterally seek to stabilize the order by resorting to criminal law against all and throughout the world, but rather a point of connection that legitimizes the extraterritorial extension of its jurisdiction. The 2009 reform of the Socialist Government restricted the activation of universal justice, until that time defined as absolute in the Organic Law of the Judiciary of 1985, to a number of requirements in application of the principle of subsidiarity, which strengthened links with national interests. Organic Law 1/2014 followed in the open line of this reform, linking universal justice to the points of connection, expanding the criminal types susceptible to persecution, leaving extraterritoriality more profiled, delimiting the principle of legality and strengthening legal certainty. After this law there is a threefold level by which the Spanish jurisdiction will extend beyond its borders: that the crime is among those enumerated in the extensive article 23.4 since that time; if the crime is not specifically enumerated and there is a point of connection, it will be to the treaties ratified by Spain and to the international jurisdiction; if there is no point of connection, that is, foreigners who commit crimes abroad, the activation of a double mechanism of international jurisdiction and of persecution and punishment by third countries with better rights is verified. I have already pointed out in the debate to take into account his proposal for a law that it is not true to accept the principle of universal justice in one way or another as a violation of international law or to liquidate universal justice, as is said without greater rigour. It is not true that the proposal for an organic law that we are now amending will either restore universal justice or give greater scope to the catalogue of crimes, which did make the reform of the People's Party of 2014 so repugnant by you, incorporating the corruption of foreign public agents, crimes against sexual freedom when the victims are minors, crimes linked to gender violence, child abuse or sex tourism in application of the Convention against Torture or conventions of the Council of Europe and of the OECD signed by Spain. In 2015, other terrorist cases were expanded. There are, yes, limits that determine the exclusion of Spanish courts in cases where proceedings have been initiated by an international court or by the jurisdiction of the country in which the offences were committed or by the nationality of the person to whom the case is alleged, but our courts may act in the event that the foreign State does not want or is unable to proceed with the prosecution in accordance with the criteria governing the international court. We also said that article 23 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary admits technical improvements and we are consistent. That is why today we are proposing improvements and additions that undoubtedly show that we are prepared to what we pointed out a year ago in the discussion of the consideration, to improve the norm, but what we are not prepared to do is to look back and generate false expectations. You, who, without objective reasons so little like Spanish justice, intend to extend your work unlimitedly by far exceeding the principle of territoriality, the same with which some of yours play to circumvent the compliance with the rules that the Spanish have democratically given us. It is not true that we are the great exception in the treatment of universal jurisdiction in Spain or in the world. Today they will probably tell me that this is not an amendment to the whole, when they know that our proposal is an alternative to the proposal we are discussing in this legislative procedure. It is a proposal, yours, with derogatory scope from the current rule. We intend not to keep it in motion but to improve it and extend it in very relevant aspects to those that bind us even our international commitments. If you intend, the usual temptation to invest in a legitimacy that denies the People's Group to legislate in certain matters, please spare yourself those arguments to really explain to us and explain to the Spaniards why they want to say no to what we propose to you today. I, with all due respect and consideration, which I also ask and hope to reach out to you for my group, say to you that it would be very good for justice and law in our country that you and some of the groups who by your vote support and favour you and that in some way allow us to divert attention from fundamental reforms for our justice system, please forget your favorite technique, that of short and stick, and also that of criminal and procedural law of convenience, that is, that 'only applicable to others but never to the acts themselves'. The account of his proposals is a clear example in this plenary - yesterday - of a new legal specialty, namely: This criminal type I do not like in case it is interpreted against what I intend to do with mine despite whomever I may. Delete. This criminal type has been applied and I don't like it. Change. These courts do not resolve to my liking, they are not independent, but, yes, I do ask the government to interfere and ask them to do what I want to do for mine, who tore up the criminal types although, of course, they now claim that they only lied to me. Oh, how Spanish justice is put for four little ones, really! I sometimes wonder: have you not thought: we are going to do one thing, better than these courts to which so much criticism is devoted to other things, affordable or not, feasible or not, and so we can fly over reason and law? Or perhaps - I will be better thought of - it is the recognition of the independence and impartiality of justice professionals in Spain. If so, welcome your initiative, even if we do not share your terms. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to overcome the demagogy and almost quantum paradox practiced by those who do not believe in the State or in Spanish law but want to impose on the Spaniards their peculiar vision of justice and law, which they want to submit in an exercise of cynicism about impunity for themselves and permanent and indefinite persecution for all others. In the serious, coherent and rigorous debate of adjustment and improvement in the context of the rights of the European Union to which we belong and of the international context they will always find us; the amendment that we are presenting today allows us to do so also with universal justice. At that meeting we call the other groups. To the Socialist Party, with whom we show a very different attitude of agreement in 2009 than you now give us; surely you remember it, but you can review the Journal of Sessions of 25 June 2009 and see which groups agreed to reform along the lines of the rest of the European partners on universal justice; there we were with you. And to Citizens, because on these issues you have recently abandoned the centrality that you have so much attributed, and I would start to worry about you. Let us find ourselves in a universal justice where States respect international law, the sovereignty of the other, the principle of subsidiarity and the powers of the International Criminal Court. Legitimacy must be questioned in order to impose the derogation intended by those who defend non-compliance with the laws, adherence to the rights of minorities; by those who promote the strangulation of the separation of powers when designing their territorial structure. There is room for doubt as to the consistency of their approaches when one day they want to repeal the existing rules on terrorist offences or see the application of exorbitant penalties for extremely serious offences against minors, alleged genocide or terrorism when it comes to the Criminal Code. However, they pursue the extension urbi et orbi of Spanish jurisdiction without fear of generating hopelessness, distrust and disappointment. I hope, because of its predictability and strategy of no for what it does or what the People's Party proposes, that they are going to say no today, and should not, to pursue the crime of money laundering with better legal tools, to pursue the crimes of illegal fishing that will allow to respond to crimes of great importance of economic interest and protection of the environment. They will also say no to better regulation of the prosecution of offences of trafficking in organs or trafficking in human beings for the purpose of extracting trafficking in organs and, finally, they may also say no to what we propose in the amendment of Article 23.6, which empowers the authority and its agents to secure persons, goods or effects that can be prosecuted in transit, by air or by sea when the fate of their criminal act, for example drug trafficking, is not Spain. I'm done, Madam President. I call on you not to say no to all this; I therefore call on you to make the need for virtue, and since you have chosen to bring this reform to this House, let us make it from destructive to constructive action, from a point of departure to a point of discovery, and that some of you decide not to say no to all that we are certainly in agreement with but that you are committed to hiding. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u4	He has requested the use of the turn against the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Tardà i Coma.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member of the People's Party, aware that it was a proposal for a law by the Republican Left that made it possible for this plenary to admit to the process of the republican text to give rise to its processing, knowing, therefore, that everything originated from the republican parliamentary group, has today taken out, from the outset, the trio of aces: we do not believe in Spain, we want to destroy Spain and we base everything on the violation of the law. The trio of aces came out of the way, first. It seems to us that this is an intellectual reductionism and a political infantilism that we do not deserve and that I do not believe that anyone deserves it, regardless of the political party or the ideology that follows. Couldn't the honourable Member have asked why independence has grown in Catalonia? Perhaps it should be considered that if the Spanish State had recognized its plurinationality, its pluriculturality and multilingualism independence would not have grown so much. It would have been possible to ask why they believe together that the defence in excess of legality covers all democratic principles; it would also have been possible to ask why to subscribe to an undialogued response to a problem guarantees its success; and it would finally have been possible to ask why they believe that they are going to obtain the consent of a majority of Catalans using authoritarian answers. This is my aces poker, four reasons, in front of the deputy's aces trio. Let's get to the bottom of this. We do not understand that a parliamentary group as important as the People's Parliamentary Group, which supports a monocolor government of the People's Party, does not present proposals for legislation. They would have had the opportunity to submit draft laws to the reform of universal justice, bearing in mind that draft laws are pre-eminent in the parliamentary process. On the following day of October 9, 2016, when the Republican Left Bill was admitted, you would have been able to submit a bill on universal justice if you considered that the law that you pushed and passed alone in 2014 required changes, that is, to recognize that you yourselves had omitted aspects that you now consider appropriate to incorporate. That bill would have gone beyond our proposal for a law, which is no longer ours but the whole of this Parliament. If they were not satisfied with the 2014 bill, if they considered that some issues had been forgotten, they could have submitted a bill and resolved it. With respect to the parliamentary group, which is said with all due respect because we do not want to invade or be seen as disregarding the comrades of the People's Parliamentary Group, you are the majority group of the House and you can put forward all the legislative proposals you want. However, the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, like other minority parliamentary groups, has very little chance: one bill per session. Have you really not found another mechanism to amend the errors of the law that you passed in 2014? I am no longer talking about fair play - that is perhaps too much to ask - but I believe that the importance of the People's Parliamentary Group, which is a parliamentary group that has supported governments or has historically led the opposition, is somewhat undeserved. It turns out that in just over three years, since the government had the opportunity and the time to correct its mistakes, it has not done so, and now they are distorting the bill that this Parliament has taken on. Our proposal for a law was not intended to amend his errors, but to repeal his law. In fact, we also wanted - that is the question of whether in the parliamentary process we can reach more or less consensus with the Socialist Group - to repeal the reform that you agreed with the PSOE in 2009. By the way, it is possible that the various parliamentary groups agreed to incorporate the corrections that you are now submitting, it is possible. I do not think we would object to incorporating what you are asking for in the process of amendments to the text of the paper. We could incorporate paragraph 4(d), illegal fishing, and paragraph (o) of the same paragraph on organ trafficking, but where is the trap? We believe in universal justice, and if we decide to incorporate what you claim, we should contextualize it under the prism of universal justice, that is, that it should be pursued, regardless of the link between the existence of a Spanish victim or that the procedure should be directed against an alien who habitually resides in Spain, etc. That is, a true universal justice. On the other hand, our parliamentary group and perhaps other parliamentary groups, which differ from you, would see the money laundering offences incorporated in paragraph 3, and we would vote in favour of an amendment although it is not part of the precepts amending our proposal for a law. I'm saying this so it's clear we don't suck our fingers. We are certainly a minority parliamentary group, but this is not synonymous with being silly and we understand that you here have intended, I would say that even ridicule us all. But let's get to the bottom of it now. You, in essence, are trying to consolidate the Spanish model of impunity, to develop it completely. Look, there is a thread that lines universal justice, now in checkmate - the 2009 reform was checkmate, it was just a checkmate; the reform of you is checkmate -, it aligns with the Historical Memory Law and even with collateral laws such as the Asylum Law; it is all part of the same legislative model that is reinforcing what has been internationally called the Spanish model of impunity. In fact, next week we will continue on that. Next week there is a bill signed by different parliamentary groups in this House - it will be discussed next Tuesday - for the Amnesty Act of 15 October 1977 to incorporate the capacity to prosecute those who committed crimes against humanity, crimes against humanity or similar crimes in the Spanish State. We are now placed in the almost impossible position that crimes committed outside the limits of the State can be tried, and this is because it is necessary that the person responsible must be Spanish or foreign, that he has acquired nationality after the offence, that the act is punishable at the place of execution, that the aggrieved or the prosecutor's office lodge a complaint with the courts - that is, goodbye, bye, bye, to the popular accusation - and that the person concerned has not been acquitted, pardoned or punished abroad. Why do I repeat this? To make clear what we have called the check kills universal justice. And in this we are in the current context. We have only eighteen years of the twenty-first century - perhaps, naively, we had believed that the twenty-first century would be another century of light, of peace, and that technology would allow us great progress in the well-being of societies - and we already realize that perhaps it will be even harder than the twentieth century, with two world wars, genocides at large and an imbalance in the distribution of wealth at the enormous planetary level. We have been in the twenty-first century for eighteen years and everything points out that it will be a hard, difficult century, in which we face challenges that we have not wanted to see or that - I repeat - naively and stupidly believed that they were a thing of the past, which puts in value the commitment of advanced societies not only to curb the dynamite of universal justice, but to ask ourselves how and how we are obliged to become the lighthouse, in the advancement of those societies that precisely because they have suffered fascist, totalitarian or militaristic pasts we are obliged to be the mask of the bow to face these difficult times to come. And this, honourable Member, has nothing to do with being republican or monarchic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u6	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we rise to the rostrum to respond to the amendment to the whole text of the amendment to the Universal Justice Act submitted by the People's Group. Our view is that this amendment to the whole does not amend the basic error that was part of the text that was adopted in 2014, in a single way and without parliamentary support, by the majority group at the time and now. If it expands the list of offences, we could therefore agree, as has been said, to incorporate in the amendment procedure the list of offences proposed by the People's Group, but we believe that it is necessary to extend the requirements of persecubility in order for it to be a genuine universal justice. For us, the limits of the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party remain too high. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want these amendments in the parliamentary procedure so that we can discuss them, we can agree them and possibly get the final text out of the paper to have a greater consensus than the one that had the law right now in force. It is always good to negotiate, it is always good to agree, so let us not lose the opportunity to give the legal system a genuine universal justice that allows the prosecution of crimes against humanity, humanitarian crimes, crimes of drug trafficking or the preservation of biodiversity, as they now propose, but let us do so in such a way that the points of connection are not too restrictive and it is the cases that can be prosecuted by the Spanish courts only in the Spanish State through the Universal Justice Act. We will therefore vote against this amendment as a whole. We bet on the proposal presented by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left basically because it contains virtually all the proposals that we have already made regarding the 2014 Act, so we are perfectly reflected in it. On that text we would like you to make your amendments in order to achieve a Universal Justice Act that does not limit the persecubility of unspeakable crimes that affect coexistence throughout the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. We discussed the consideration of an amendment to the entire People's Parliamentary Group to the Republican Left's bill on the reform of universal criminal jurisdiction, an amendment to the whole, which will no longer be supported by the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, as it seeks not to change the denaturalization that with respect to universal justice suffered at the hands of Organic Law 1/2014 and which the People's Party sponsored. This Basque Parliamentary Group has already set its position on the universal jurisdiction of Spanish criminal justice, and we will not change it now in this debate. Our position has already been set out in this XII Legislature on the occasion of the proposal of Ezquerra, and also in the proposal of law which the Basque Nationalist Party has presented in this House on the same matter of universal justice. We support the recovery of the genuine nature of universal justice, which is disconnected from national interests, since the protected legal good is an international interest that is based solely on the characteristics of the crimes committed, of the crimes under that jurisdiction, crimes that offend the international community as a whole, such as crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, crimes of torture and enforced disappearance, among others, and which are those provided for in international treaties, outside the place of commission and the nationality of the perpetrator and victim. These rules of jurisdiction of the Spanish criminal jurisdiction were contained in the same terms in article 23 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary in its original wording of 1985. However, this fullness of the principle of universal criminal jurisdiction of the courts has been distorted by successive reforms: that of Law 1/2009 and that of Organic Law 1/2014. The first, Organic Law 1/2009, introduced a series of links with criteria of State interest that operated as limiting criteria of the principle of universal persecution and the avoidance of crimes under international law, in addition to incorporating a so-called subsidiarity rule that gave priority, vis-à-vis the Spanish courts and tribunals, to the jurisdiction of an international court or other competent country, although without defining the criteria for determining the latter. Four years later the Organic Law 1/2014 gave another twist, the definitive, to completely pervert universal jurisdiction. This exacerbates the connection with criteria of State interest, crime to crime, so that in practice the application of universal jurisdiction to each of them is unfeasible. In addition, there is a need to file a complaint by the offender or the prosecutor's office, and complaints by the popular prosecution are no longer covered, as was currently possible. Priority is also given to the jurisdiction of the State of the place where the acts were committed, in the face of Spanish criminal jurisdiction, which may be subject to the general principle of territorial jurisdiction as a general criterion of criminal law, and also to the jurisdiction of the State of nationality, in the face of Spanish criminal jurisdiction, of the victim to whom the acts were committed or of whose nationality the victims were, which does not seem to be so relevant to the principle of the criminal locus. [[The Lord]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, the current regulation of universal justice of Organic Law 1/2014, which the amendment to the whole that we are debating today seeks not to be derogated from, cannot have the support of the Basque Parliamentary Group, because we believe that it contravenes the conception of universal jurisdiction in criminal matters, and I recall in this regard the canonical definition of the Institute of International Law of Krakow, which defines universal justice as the competent one of a State to prosecute and, in its case, to find guilty and punish the perpetrators, regardless of the place of commission of the crime and without condition to any binding of active or passive nationality or other criteria of jurisdiction recognized by international law, these criteria accepted by the Constitutional Court in its judgements 21/1997, 87/2000 and the very important 237/2005, among others. I'm finishing up, President. Law 1/2014, which is an amendment to the totality that we are discussing, is intended to protect, will not count on our support, and I will not miss the opportunity to remind you of the double standards highlighted by the 2009 and 2014 reforms. While the universal jurisdiction of the Spanish courts was aimed at prosecuting third world countries, Spain boasted of its leadership; however, when it came to prosecuting countries or citizens of the first world, it began, first by the Socialist Party, to distort the principle of universal jurisdiction, and then by the People's Party, to restrict it. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment to the whole presented by the People's Group seeks to maintain the current regulation of universal justice as set out in article 23 of our Organic Law on the Judiciary. Its current wording, operated by the 2014 reform, during that absolute majority of the People's Party, resulted in a substantial and extreme reduction in the rights of Spanish victims of crimes against humanity, genocide or war crimes abroad. Its current wording practically ended the principle of universal justice. This Law 1/2014 established a series of limits to the extension of Spanish jurisdiction, establishing a markedly exceptional character to the prosecution of crimes committed outside Spain. The requirement that the author resides or is present in our country is in practice a major impediment to the prosecution of these crimes, and that many Spanish citizens are effectively unprotected by the lack of competence of our judicial bodies, an almost insurmountable lack of competence. It is true, on the other hand, and it is fair to admit, that Mrs Moro has honoured her words in the debate, when she said that the current rules were perceptible, and that the amendment tabled introduces interesting amendments that would allow the prosecution of money-laundering offences affecting the Spanish socio-economic order; illegal fishing, in the cases covered by international treaties and offences relating to trafficking in human organs. But it is also true that these types can be introduced as amendments to the article, without having to condition their incorporation to maintain its restrictive model of universal justice to the extreme. The legislative technique of the People's Group does not cease to surprise us, and this amendment does not compare with the fifty amendments which have been submitted to its licensing and permit law. Fifty amendments to five articles, a whole exercise of creativity that has occurred or, if they prefer, a whole exercise of legislative inconsistency that should lead to their non-admission of plan. On the other hand, in this speech, I would like to make a matter very clear to me, for the sake of the centrality of my group, which is so concerned about the people's spokesman: that we do not support this amendment in its entirety does not mean that we support Esquerra's proposal in its own terms. We said that in the discussion and we reiterate it today. In the course of the amendments we will try to bring this reform into line with the model of universal justice which had already obtained a very majority agreement in the Committee on Justice when this issue was discussed. The majority agreement was to reverse what we considered unacceptable 2014 reform and return to the previous situation, to the wording of Article 23 existing after the 2009 reform. In addition, this reform fulfilled the mandate of this House by a resolution adopted on 19 May 2009, on the occasion of the debate of the State of the Nation, which was approved with the support of PSOE, PP, Convergence, Coalition Canaria, Nafarroa Bai, UPyD and UPN. This great majority however did not happen with the subsequent reform of 2014, which was only approved by the People's Party, with the block rejection of the entire opposition. That is what we in the Committee on Justice advocate in the debate on taking account of this proposal for an organic law, and that is our position in the debate on amendments to the whole of today. That model of universal justice of Organic Law 1/2009, as stated in its explanatory statement, in addition to incorporating criminal types that were not previously included, adapted the wording of article 23 to the principle of subsidiarity, to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. This principle conditioned the jurisdiction of our courts to the effect that no further investigation of the same facts had been initiated in another competent country or within an international tribunal. In other words, it was conditional on the absence of criminal prejudice, which seems to us to be quite reasonable. In addition, a number of budgets and links were established with our country, which were sufficiently broad to allow the prosecution of these crimes by the Spanish courts in circumstances that guaranteed minimal connection with our country. The jurisdiction of our courts was restricted only in those cases where they had nothing to do with the crimes committed, neither our citizens nor our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not question the importance or legitimacy of such causes, but we do question the means of our misguided administration of justice to pursue them. Legitimate causes? Yeah. Unspeakable crimes? Yeah. But they would require a huge amount of dedication and resources in the face of a remote possibility of obtaining true material justice and reparation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra - and in particular I am also addressing the ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Parliamentary Group - do you want to expand and explore the capacities of our administration of justice? [[EAJ-PNV]] Let us move forward with the Citizens' Budget Agreement and the People's Parliamentary Group so that up to 300 new places of judges and prosecutors can be convened, thanks to this plan of clash that has negotiated Citizens with the Government; by the way, maintaining the investment that we have already achieved last year for the Plan of Modernization of the Administration of Justice. [[applause]] Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, the places of judges and prosecutors who retire this year will not be covered. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u13	Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with an amendment that at first sight should be treated as a partial amendment, but under that look we are presented with an instrument that supposedly intends to change everything so as not to change anything at all, against the agreement that was already in place and that was a majority in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the shared goal should be that Spain should not only protect and guarantee the rights of everyone within its borders, but that the Spanish State should once again be a leader and a benchmark in the rest of the world in the protection of these rights and freedoms. The goal should be to regain that prestige lost in 2009 with the reforms of the Socialist Party for fear of enmity with the State of Israel, when it was denounced by the bombing of the civilian population in Gaza. That prestige was lost in 2009 and then completely disintegrated with the Gallardon reform of 2014, for fear this time of China's reaction when Spanish justice took letters in the Tibet genocide. Between them, they left in no way the competence of the Spanish courts to defend the victims of the most heinous crimes in the international sphere. Of those muds, ladies and gentlemen, these muds. To the shame of all and all the Spanish State continues to fail to fulfil its international commitments in the defence of human rights. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you are bringing us an amendment to the whole which seeks to extend the catalogue of persecutable crimes, including a number of assumptions that I say at the outset that we accept. You intend to include money laundering in this catalogue. Come in. Let us include money laundering. That's right, they don't resist ending the sicav, the great instrument of tax avoidance of big fortunes. [[Applauds]] They also intend to include illegal fishing in this catalogue. Come in. We also pursue illegal fishing through international justice and Spanish universal jurisdiction. But, on the other hand, do not defend the international trade treaties that open our borders precisely to products from third countries often coming from this very illegal fishing that you now intend to pursue. They also intend to include organ trafficking in international persecution. Evidently, we've included it. But what are you doing to stop the helplessness of all the minors who are arriving in the refugee camps, the great victims of this scourge, the most desperate, the most vulnerable, converted today into pure spare parts for the wealthy of the privileged world? It is not enough to include it in universal jurisdiction. Take measures, fight, protect the most helpless. Don't play the trick. Sumen, recover for the Spanish order that universal jurisdiction, that international defence of human rights. Introduce these assumptions in partial amendments, and we, as I say from this stand, will support them, in the same way that we ask them to support our partial amendments, which we have already recorded, in which we also expanded the catalogue of Article 23, including the persecution of apartheid, slavery, crimes against natural resources, crimes against the environment, crimes relating to the protection of flora and fauna; we also arranged for the cod included in the 2014 Gallardon reform in respect of crimes committed in international waters, avoiding, for example, that Bochorno of 2014, when a vessel loaded with 16 000 kilos of hashish in the Alboran Sea was arrested and whose crews were released since the National Court understood, in implementation of its reform, that it was not clear that those 16 tonnes of hashishishes were destined for Spain. It is therefore an unpunished crime, its fugitives and the National High Court with an instrument that gives it absolute insecurity to pursue these crimes. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do not go this way. No more cuts, no more repression of human rights and democratic freedoms. I'm sure it's in their minds in today's debate the murder of the José Couso chamber. His family members accompany us today, a clear example of the struggle for dignity. Fourteen years later they still claim a justice that the Spanish courts have not been able to give them. [[Applauds]] With regard to the case of José Couso, I am sure that they have read the decision of the judge of the National Court, Santiago Pedraz; I am sure they know her, but I will allow myself the luxury of reminding her. Santiago Pedraz, when he filed the case for the crime against the Couso chamber, literally said: War crimes go unpunished in Spain despite the many efforts and recommendations worldwide to prosecute and punish such crimes. And there is not only the case of the murder of the Couso chamber, we can also talk about impunity, for example, in the assault of the embassy of Guatemala that caused the death of Secretary Jaime Ruiz del Árbol; we can also talk about other people, such as the father of Rigoberta Menchú, who was burned alive and whose crime goes unpunished in Spain, or the case of Rwanda, six religious and three Spanish cooperators, who go unpunished as well. Do you know that Spanish justice cannot do anything against those responsible for the genital mutilation of girls, who are forced to leave the Spanish State and are then victims of the ablation, and when they return no one does justice for those serious damage, for those sequelae that will haunt them for the rest of their lives? Do you know the impunity in which those responsible for these crimes and so many others remain, in Tibet, in Gaza, in Guatemala, so many crimes often caused by paramilitary people who today hold political and military positions and who are unpunished before Spanish justice? No nuances, ladies and gentlemen; either the victims are sheltered or the executioners are given impunity. Even with the legislation that you seek not to correct the victims, their families, or even the prosecutor's office, you may not be interested in opening proceedings in the Spanish State to at least identify the victim, request autopsy or other urgent proceedings, or investigate how the events occurred. Not to mention the genuine defencelessness of Spanish co-workers, international rights defenders and journalists who are constantly assaulted when they report attacks on human rights in the Middle East, Africa and so on. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by reading the arguments that are also made in your amendment. They say that the recovery of universal justice would cause in Spanish courts little effectiveness or excessive wear. Tell this to the judges, the judges and the prosecutors who are going to organize a judicial strike next May, and tell them that their reasons for complaint are the wear and tear on the Spanish justice system of universal jurisdiction. Tell them and see if they avoid the strike that, against their measures of cutting and squandering resources, they will find themselves next May in Spanish justice. It is in fact their instrumentalization of justice to combat political dissent, to combat free expression, the free exercise of social rights that wears out justice, which wears out the workers of justice and which wears out the quality of the rule of law. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Moya. Mr Villar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Supreme Court has argued in its Judgment 296/2015, the unlimited nature of universal jurisdiction, originally embodied in the Organic Law of the Judiciary of 1985, was questioned by legal practice, since problems were created linked to the idea that it does not belong to any particular State unilaterally to deal with stabilizing order through criminal law in a potentially global context. It was considered necessary to establish a point of connection that reasonably legitimized the territorial extension of its jurisdiction, while avoiding excessive wear and tear of national courts in circumstances where the practical effectiveness of the proceedings could certainly prove null and void. What is stipulated in international treaties is an inescapable commitment to the establishment of an effective response to impunity, eliminating the possibility of States being used by criminals as shelters. The Constitutional Court, in its Judgment 237/2005, underlines the idea that while the Organic Law of the Judiciary established a principle of universal jurisdiction of an absolute nature, this character is not imposed in an unavoidable manner by constitutional principles. Rather, the court understands that the possibility of establishing regulatory criteria, both through interpretation and legislation, is legitimate. The problems arising from the wide interpretation of universal jurisdiction led to the reform of Organic Law 1/2009. The main retouching, ladies and gentlemen, carried out by this law, on a socialist initiative, in a thoughtful manner and with the help of the majority of the groups, was so that the Spanish judges could prosecute crimes of such special gravity, incorporating a requirement that the alleged perpetrator of the acts should be in Spanish territory, that there were victims of Spanish nationality or that there was some other relevant connection with Spain. The practice consolidated in comparative law shows that in most countries, explicitly or implicitly, connecting criteria in the exercise of universal justice, and in particular the presence of the accused in the national territory, are normally contemplated without the understanding that treaties oblige a model of universal justice, so to speak, pure or absolute. This is the case in Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Finland, for citing some cases. In this sense, with the 2009 reform, Spain was in a reasonable and entirely congenial position with the law of the countries of our environment. However, a negative change was introduced through Organic Law 1/2014, perpetrated in solitary by the People's Group, along the chosen route the mandatory reports of the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] It was also done in a hurry and in turn needed immediate reform because of its poor wording, in order to be able to clarify and extend precisely the competition in crimes such as terrorism. Rejected by a multitude of human rights organizations, this evil reform has had a very negative impact on the principle of universal justice in our country, strangling it and in multiple violation of the Constitution, which has led our group to raise an unsolved remedy of unconstitutionality. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u16	Wait a minute, Mr. Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. The People's Parliamentary Group is now bringing to debate an amendment to the whole with an alternative text to the proposal for an organic law to reform Law 6/1985, presented by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, which in turn is guided by a return to the originalist approach. They do not deceive us, gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, their initiative is by no means an alternative text but the use of this procedure to fully support and not amend in any of its elements the unjust 2014 law. Mrs. Moro, with the lure of introducing new criminal assumptions in article 23 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, retain in their entirety the very restrictive and harmful paradigm on the universal condition, instituted with its reform. In other words, what could have been a set of proposals for additional amendments or for another initiative, you make it an opportunistic amendment to the whole without it clearly being an alternative text. That said, regardless of whether we could agree on the introduction of these new assumptions. But what they do in this way is to distort the procedure and get involved in maintaining it and not amending it, holding a text that rejects the majority of the House and on which there is pending - I remind you - another proposal for a reform law of our group, in line with the reasonable model of 2009 that connects with that majority. For these reasons, we are not going to support your initiative. Their intended alternative remains to maintain the unjust and unconstitutional reform they imposed in 2014, as was their pattern of action when they had absolute majority. To it they simply intend to add now three new criminal cases and a provision for powers of the authority of their agents to take steps to prevent them. I would insist that we should agree on this and discuss it in order to improve that proposal, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, choosing to expand the catalogue of crimes of universal persecution to impose on them a legal framework with so many obstacles, with so many restrictions that it makes it virtually impossible for such crimes to be prosecuted, it is not much less the right way, it is simply a deception. It is a deception for all - also for you - because it becomes a means of repealing in practice the principle of universal jurisdiction. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] And we're not gonna lend ourselves to playing the game. You made, alone and in front of the other groups, a law of appearance and complex technique, certainly, but without soul and without substance of universal justice. They should take into account Chief Justice Earl Warren's sentence: 'It is the spirit of reform and not the form of the law that keeps justice alive'. Thank you, Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u18	Thank you very much. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u19	We then proceed to the debate on the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. Two amendments to the entire alternative text have been tabled to this proposal. For the defence of their respective amendments, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to welcome to this house Juan Carlos Quer, father of Diana; Antonio del Castillo, father of Marta; Juan José Cortés, father of Mari Luz; Francisco Palo and María del Mar Bermúdez, parents of Sandra; Jessica Sánchez, representing the family of Jeremy Vargas; Blanca Estrella, of the Clara Campoamor Association, and a very special memory for the parents of Gabriel, Angel and Patricia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not deny the evidence, our criminal system needs reflection, reforms and gaps in cases such as those where recidivism is too common. Here the system fails. We have to admit the problem as a first step in reforming it; we are legislators and we have an obligation to do so. Contrary to what the actions of some political groups show, we do want the Constitutional Court to rule on the constitutionality of the permanent prison that can be reviewed. It seems to us that it is most logical when there are legitimate and understandable differences in doctrine and among professionals. It seems to us that in such a sensitive matter a ruling by the Constitutional Court will make things easier, draw a clear playing field and uncertain limits within which we can move when it comes to legislation. But some want to abrogate in hot, yes, abrogate in hot. One of the reasons I use that expression is because of the hastyness that already produces the tipical warning of the use of hot regulation. What do you mean, hot legislation? This was already legislated. Others brought the initiative to repeal without waiting for the resolution of an appeal that the PSOE had filed. It is the PNV that takes the initiative to decide what the Penal Code will look like, without waiting... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u21	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u22	... the decision of the Constitutional Court. We present this amendment to the whole with an alternative text to the proposed law of the PNV for a couple of reasons. First, because it keeps the permanent prison reviewable until the Constitutional Court pronounces itself, avoiding the hot repeal. Secondly, because we believe that the time has come, once the debate has arisen, to strengthen the principle of full and effective enforcement of sentences, so that we prevent allegations of insufficient real punishment in the face of particularly horrific crimes and with the objective danger of recidivism. I would like to ask the Socialist Party, please, to reconsider and abstain, to allow the Constitutional Court to decide. There is a part of the jurists who only know the guiding principle of reintegration. It is a constitutional principle, it is a laudable principle, it is a principle of civilization, yes, but the penalties have - and have always had - other purposes, such as the protection of society, the protection of people. The special prevention of those who have been victims and the general protection of society is at the heart of all this, in Cesare Beccaria, author Of the crimes and the penalties, it works without which we would not be talking about any of this. The goal of reintegration is there by Cesare Beccaria, for an 18th century work. Gentlemen, prevention was already and was part of a work with a single coherent vision that is the contemporary vision of criminal systems. Few things are more absurd these days than hearing how it is argued that the reviewable permanent prison has not saved Gabriel. For God's sake, the lives that are saved are not in sight. They can deny if they want another end of the sentences, the preventive, but I do tell them that the laxity in granting the third degree in some cases is indeed visible, unfortunately, in the form of reoccurrences in particularly execrable conduct. [[Applauds]] The reviewable permanent prison debate is only the tip of the iceberg of a problem that appeals to us as legislators about the need to protect people when the constitutional guiding principle of reintegration does not work and, particularly, in crimes where it usually does not work. You can't legislate hot, but you can't let things rot either. We are reformists and believe that dysfunctions must be corrected. Do you want examples of dysfunctions? I'm going to put three on them and I'm just going to give them their own names in one of the cases, and I know why. Last year a young Ceutí kidnapped and raped a twenty-two-year-old woman on the Hacho Road while enjoying third grade. One convicted of raping two women in 2010 was arrested in June 2015 in Majorca for forcibly driving a homeless person and raping a 14-year-old girl while enjoying a prison permit and in third grade. On 15 October 2004, Pedro Jiménez, a prisoner of the Can Brians prison, eight times convicted of sexual and theft offences, murdered in Hospitalet, while he had a prison permit, the two agents in the practices of the National Police Aurora Rodríguez and Silvia Nogaledo, twenty-eight and twenty-two years respectively; he not only murdered them, sexually assaulted them and desecrated the bodies. Before the double crime he had written a text in prison where he recreated his sense of power - I quote textually - while raping a woman. In Citizens we advocate the need to ensure full compliance and to at least approach the effective enforcement of sentences for crimes of particular gravity. These are the main points of our proposal that the person sentenced to permanent imprisonment subject to review for the commission of an offence should not have access to the third degree until the completion of twenty years of effective imprisonment and not fifteen years as at present; to further restrict access to the third degree where there is a conviction for several offences, with at least one of them being punished with permanent imprisonment subject to review; and even more so when the person sentenced to permanent imprisonment subject to review is for terrorist offences or committed within criminal organizations. To amend the regime for granting ordinary release permits so that in the case of a permanent, reviewable prison you only operate after fifteen years of effective imprisonment, and some other measures that save you because you all have them in writing. The formula of the permanent prison reviewable admits, it is true, a debate on its constitutionality, we all know it, of course, but in Citizens we think, and that is what I have come to defend, that the sensible thing is not to repeal it, we think that the Constitutional Court is the one that establishes the limitations, draws the field of play and marks the area within which we can regulate those situations particularly dangerous to society in cases of crimes that are especially execrable and before criminals who show a kind of conduct that contemporary criminology knows are based many times on impulses that have very difficult rehabilitation, if they have it. But as the Constitutional Court resolves, we can - and still must - address the great gap in the system: a system of permits and a third-degree classification which, even in the regulation of the permanent prison that can be reviewed, are incoherent with the purposes of the sentence, as I said to you, of particularly heinous crimes, crimes that cause a particular rejection of society. It is incoherent that such regulations should be established for special prevention maintained over time when those types of crimes we are talking about unfortunately know that they can occur and occur on too many occasions when a permit is given or when a third-grade classification is given and when permits are established at the age of eight or third-grades are established at the age of fifteen in the most severe penalty under the Criminal Code. This is not the case with other penalties, which are also included in the Criminal Code, and which are not considered to be the most serious penalty nor are they intended for such crimes. I would just like to add, with all due respect, that I ask the Socialist Party's gentlemen, please, to abstain from allowing... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u23	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u24	I don't know why they're so nervous, frankly. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u25	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u26	Well, maybe then I'll know why you're so nervous and have the opportunity to give you the reply I wasn't addressing you, I was addressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u27	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u28	And I wanted to ask them, with all due respect, to react, to abstain and to allow the Constitutional Court to rule before we take any other decision. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u29	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago I was listening to some parents, whose daughter had been savagely murdered, answer: Vengeance? We don't want revenge, that wouldn't give us back our daughter. We just want justice so that other families, other parents, other girls don't suffer what our daughter suffered. [[Applauds]] No revenge, no anger, just justice. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we come to defend today. Today we come to defend your cause, a just cause, a cause that should be that of all, ladies and gentlemen. Today we come to defend the protection of the most vulnerable against the most detestable and deplorable crimes, one of which has shaken our consciences again these days. Today we come to defend, to ask them not to repeal the permanent prison that can be reviewed, and in this case we are not alone because we know that this position is shared by the vast majority of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] An exceptional penalty for crimes of exceptional gravity, for the most heinous crimes, those which generate the greatest social rejection and which deserve the greatest criminal punishment with a just, proportionate, constitutional, reviewable sentence from twenty-five years of sentence and therefore compatible with reintegration. A sentence supported by comparative law, by the Statute of the International Criminal Court and by the European Court of Human Rights itself. A punishment similar to that which exists in the vast majority of European countries, also with left-wing governments, and which has periods of execution of a review of the execution of the sentence that go from the fifteen years in Germany, the twenty-two in France or the twenty-six in Italy. One figure, one criminal type, ladies and gentlemen, whose maintenance is a social cry, and all published indicators reflect this, with at least 80% of Spanish support. [[Applauds]] I know you don't like it, you question it in depth and in form, but that doesn't mean you're right. They question his denomination and tell us that what he actually hides is a chain to perpetuity. Please, ladies and gentlemen, don't confuse. Neither the Full Enforcement of Sentences Act, which we endorsed with you in 2003, nor the reviewable permanent prison, is because it is a penalty that is subject to review within a specific time frame and is also compatible with the prison benefits set out in the law. They question their constitutionality because they say that it is not aimed at resocialization or reintegration. Where do you say that, ladies and gentlemen? The reviewable permanent prison does not renounce, because it could not do so, the reinsertion of the sentenced person, but such rehabilitation is not automatically achieved by the mere course of time. Sometimes this reintegration is achieved, but sometimes unfortunately not, and it is to these latter cases and to the most serious crimes to which this figure intends to respond. [[Applauds]] And it is that reintegration is a right of the defendant, but it is the defendant who is responsible for accrediting and proving before a court that he is able to reintegrate into society without the risk of re-offending. That is why the European Court of Human Rights distinguishes between inescapable life imprisonment and the other prison sentence, as is the case with the permanent, reviewable prison, which allows under conditions the release of the sentenced person, the latter being in conformity with the rights enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. How will this inhumane punishment be if it is endorsed by the European Court of Human Rights? Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little measure! [[Applauds]] And don't confuse the sentence with serving the sentence either. It is the execution of the sentence that aims to rehabilitate the offender, but the penalty has other purposes. The penalty is also the response to the crime, the preventive component and the deterrent effect it produces. It means being fair with the damage done to the victims and, of course, it is the guarantee of protection and security to our entire society. I would therefore ask you for a little rigour and prudence before speaking so conclusively of the unconstitutionality of this sentence, because it has been well informed by the Council of State, by the Fiscal Council and by the General Council of the Judiciary itself. [[Applauds]] I know that part of the legal doctrine does not think the same, that you question it, the same as you do. You will see, seek if you want the applause of a part of the doctrine. We will continue to work and legislate to gain the confidence of all Spaniards, as we always do. [[Applauds]] I say this because if there is a presumption in this case, it is precisely in favour of the constitutionality of this sentence. The Constitutional Court itself has had the opportunity to give its opinion on this subject and has been accepting requests for extradition of foreign offenders by countries that provide for sentences similar to the permanent prison that can be reviewed. But, look, if they still have doubts, let the Constitutional Court resolve them. And since you filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court, do you not think that the most prudent and also the most consistent thing would be not to abrogate this sentence until you know the ruling of the High Court? [[Applauds]] We think so, we ask it on behalf of Spanish society, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We ask you if you do not accept our amendment as a whole, as you have announced. An amendment, our amendment, which seeks not only to maintain, but to strengthen and extend this criminal figure, by extending in five cases the application of the prison sentence remains reviewable: to murders after kidnapping or with concealment of the body, which prolong the pain of the victims or their families; to those which cause several deaths by ravages, fires or intentional radioactive leaks; or to serial rapists or rapists of minors. This is why we intend to respond to new social situations and initiatives which have been taking place, up to the definition of thirteen cases of the application of this penalty, even below the legislation compared, since, for example, in Germany, this penalty applies to twenty cases, in Italy to nineteen or in France to twenty-six. Do the Spaniards not have the right to be protected like the rest of the Europeans? We think that yes and that with this penalty and with these new assumptions we will better defend the rights and freedoms or the security of all freedom; by the way, we are not accused of hot legislation. It's just the opposite. The permanent reviewable prison has been in force in Spain for almost three years. You can argue if you want some of the new assumptions that we propose to you; but what we really play with today, what we intend to avoid today is that you remove it hotly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That's what we're trying to avoid. There's your responsibility. The same responsibility I demand of you, gentlemen of Citizens. Two years ago they signed in their pact with the PSOE the immediate repeal of the reviewable permanent prison. Just a few months ago, in this rostrum, they qualified this punishment as a 'punishing demagogy' - I quote literally - and in the vote they abstained by facilitating the procedure for its repeal. Just a few weeks ago, his leader stated in a national newspaper that he would once again subscribe to the 200 points of the agreement with the PSOE without exception, once again ratifying his position in favour of the repeal of the reviewable permanent prison. And today, with different spokesmen, we defend it and we are happy about it; but it is that on top of it they accuse the system of laxity so they propose to raise the temporary requirements for access to the review of the execution of the sentence and to the prison benefits, in a sort of auction rising times - of all times - without more justification than that supposed laxity and without presenting any technical report or proposal of any institution that approves such measures or any kind of adequacy of the prison legislation. It is certainly not the best way to legislate, Mr Girauta; but in any case I would like to remind you that all these mechanisms of resocialisation, of prison benefits, are in the hands of prison judges and prison officials. [[Applauds]] You'll know who you want to criticize. But the important thing is not that; the important thing is not that debate, Mr Girauta. The important thing is to know what your true position is on the reviewable permanent prison. [[Protests]] I say this because in recent times they have defended one thing and its opposite. It seems today that they are against their repeal, and that is why, despite these technical inaccuracies, we will support their amendment without crack. [[Applauds]] I'm glad you changed your mind. I hope that this is the last time they do so. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is crime and punishment because there are criminals; because there is no law that allows us to vaccinate against the negative side of the human condition. But we can do better to protect ourselves from the most serious and heinous crimes. We can better protect ourselves from those terrorists who are able to run indiscriminately, leaving behind a flood of blood, terror and innocent victims. We can better protect ourselves from the genocides, from the murderers of minors, from serial rapists, from the most dangerous criminals, to ensure that they can never again cause any harm to anyone, I repeat, so that they can never again cause any harm to anyone. [[Applauds]] We believe that the figure of the reviewable permanent prison is a good mechanism of prevention against this type of crime and its maintenance is based on arguments of more than sufficient weight. Do you believe that the Spaniards want to reduce the time of conviction or apply lighter penalties to the most serious crimes? Do you think 80% of Spaniards are wrong? Some thought should be given to this before calling this punishment a punitive populism. Don't look at the People's Party, look at Spain because this is the Parliament of Spain, we are representatives of the whole of Spanish society and Spanish society is asking us for greater protection from these crimes because they have been able to see the pain, damage and suffering, there in perpetuity, that they have caused in many Spanish families. [[applause]] I'm done. Can any of you imagine that this misfortune would have happened to any of us? Would they really be thinking the same thing? It is very difficult to get into that situation and it is impossible to imagine how far this suffering reaches without consolation because it has not happened to either of us. But today, here in the guest gallery, we are accompanied by people, families, who have experienced these tragedies and throughout this time they have given us all a lesson and an example of strength, dignity and integrity. So, now, when you go up to this stand and try to justify your position, don't answer me alone, don't answer only the People's Group, look up, the rostrum, and convince them. [[Rumours and protests.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up, addressed to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u31	Thank you very much. Quiet. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to start by setting out the position of the Canary Coalition, and the Canary Coalition and the Canary nationalists, we believe that at this time the permanent prison that can be reviewed should not be repealed, for two reasons. [[Applauds]] The first, because it has very little recourse and very little application, and the second, because the ruling of the Constitutional Court is pending. That said, we cannot share these amendments to the whole, that war, that struggle, that party of Citizens and the PP to see who is harder to take advantage of a feeling of society; we cannot share that. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Society wants people who have not repented, who have not been rehabilitated, to be unable to accept prison benefits. This law was made by the PP without consulting anyone. If an agreement had been wanted, if a political agreement had been attempted today, if I had been called... But no, you are not interested in whether or not the amendment will go forward in its entirety. That's not being decided today. Now the process of the law begins. Consensus has not been sought to find a solution of dignity. There's also a blindness on the left, if you don't realize what society thinks, and I want to tell you. You can't accuse a person like Blanca Estrella of populism or demagoguery, progressive, of the left, who has been at the foot of the ground with the Clara Campoamor Association and knows the flaws that our justice has and what holes there are in it. You can't accuse parents who want revenge, either. Unfortunately, neither Sonia nor Sandra nor Diana nor any of these children will be recovered by these parents. I think this show is a shame. Let us conclude this debate with dignity, with respect for those parents who want, in positive terms, a hope that there will be a justice not of revenge, but a justice of truth, which is what society wants. We are not going to lend ourselves to this, we are going to abstain in the whole amendment, because moreover our vote is not decisive, and with a compromise, that in the process we can improve and reach some political consensus that responds to why we are here, not for accusations or wars on a social issue, but to agree on what the citizens who put us here want. Many thanks and thanks also to Blanca Estrella, the Association Clara Campoamor and parents with that heart and with their time dedicated to the memory of their daughters, who will not recover, can serve for the daughters of others, like us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u33	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I defended the position of the Navarro People's Union in the debate to take account of this proposal and I have already expressed our disagreement with the Basque Nationalist Party's claim to reduce penalties to the most repugnant, most hateful and most serious crimes in our country. I insist, as I did then, that we are not surprised by the decriminalizing direction of the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party, because it has never, at least since I am, supported or supported any regulations that would aggravate the penalties to those who have been the main organized crime challenge against the law, life, freedom and political stability of our country in the past sixty years. From other independenceist or far-left parties we could expect a certain follow-up to that same proposal. What I certainly didn't count on was that citizens' priorities allowed this reviewable permanent prison sentence to go away. The reviewable permanent prison sentence, ladies and gentlemen - as has already been said here - is not an exception in Europe, it is not perpetual, although it is falsely said, it is perfectly legal and therefore constitutional, it is just and justified by the extreme gravity of the crimes and it is proportional to the damage, to the social alarm and to the goods and values that we want to protect among all. We have not tabled an amendment in its entirety, but we have already prepared partial amendments to try to put an end to the rules that the Basque Nationalist Party is pushing for, and we will give a yes to the amendments that have been tabled, although much would have to be changed in order to prevent the abolition of this penalty already thanks to the release that Citizens are, unfortunately, going to facilitate today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor, also by the Joint Group, to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u36	Egun on. In fact, today I would use a single sentence to mark the position of Euskal Herria Bildu: we are in favour of the repeal of the permanent reviewable prison. [[Rumors]] We will therefore not support an amendment that seeks to expand it and another one that comes from a party that just four months ago used all kinds of qualifications against covert life imprisonment and now wants to reform it to make it difficult for people to access prison benefits to whom this measure could be applied, which is nothing more than a life imprisonment, as we have been doing. Mr. Girauta, that's really hot legislation. Despite the continuing decline in crime rates, it is only the proponents who are able to continue to pass exceptional laws that they are seeking to harden all criminal and repressive measures, making their regrettable letter of presentation to the world worse, which is nothing more than a state in which Twittersters, puppeteers and rappers are condemned, as are those who want sovereign citizenship of their decisions, as long as they are fired with honors to Francoists, even in the presence of high offices, or are pardoned, decorated and ascended to torturers. They cut rights and freedoms, insist on maintaining the most repressive prison and penal systems in Europe against their own constitutional criteria, which are not mine, but those of you, who were betting on reintegration-oriented sentences and who were strictly rejecting life imprisonment. Focus on human dignity, on the prohibition of cruel and degrading treatment, on basic European human rights principles. Ultimately, and I am going to say this even though they have said that we do not say so, they impose a punitive populism, they seek an exacerbation of the punishment at the hands of the press headline, they use the suffering of the victims, a suffering that is real, but not to offer them justice, rather to act in a way of revenge. Faced with this widely denounced action that seeks only to define sectors to be pursued in order to make a suit tailored to the criminalization that is sought, we will at least continue to work for ordinary legislation and not an exceptional one. I will give you a data so that you realize the seriousness of what you are proposing and what you are defending. The rapporteur on torture usually makes that very clear. A 20 - year prison term has irreversible consequences, more if someone thinks or does not hope that their situation will change. [[Rumors]] I listen to you with respect, it is the least I ask, but it is the same, I repeat, we will vote against both amendments. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u37	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. I also give the floor to Mrs Ciuró i Buldó, for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u38	Thank you, Madam President. As if it were a perfectly prepared coincidence, today we are discussing two amendments to the whole of the People's and Citizens' Party, just when today has shown us its most cruel face, its most reprehensible face. Perhaps today is not the best day to be able to discuss whether or not to maintain an extreme measure in the Criminal Code, such as the vocation of life imprisonment that is subject to review. The murder of the child Gabriel, allegedly at the hands of a being who was part of his intimate family nucleus, adds if there is greater indignation, rejection and irritation on our most brutal human side. But, certainly, as legislators that we are, we must be abstract from our most primary impulse when we legislate and, in particular, when we do it in the matter of the Criminal Code, because it is in matters of criminal policy when the model of society plays it. For us there are two models of society: the one who believes that criminal policy is linked to the punishment against the person causing the harm, to agile justice, to reparation and accompaniment for the victims, to the measures of reintegration and rehabilitation of the prisoner or to the model of society that believes that criminal policy is linked to revenge and the eye for an eye. Mr Bermúdez de Castro, it is not the penalty that protects society; what protects society is the means for justice, crime prevention and accompanying victims until they need it. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Finally, what we would need is for the amendments to be withdrawn altogether because, in our view, that of Citizens, on the one hand, is bathed in opportunism, with unconstitutionality, while diametrically opposed to article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights, as it sets aside any reasonable expectation of the prisoner to one day attain freedom. The same doses that, in our opinion, the amendment of the People's Party has of populism, since we could recognize a specific case for each worsening of the penalty it proposes. I'm done, President. Hardly a justice with few means, saturated, can do and support good rehabilitation policies because the deficiency in the system also condemns the individual, because he cannot be rehabilitated. In these contexts, therefore, no measure as repressive as the reviewable permanent prison would be taken. Modernize justice, agile it, accompany the victims and bet on reintegration. It is a state of the 21st century, not the 19th century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u40	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, as other speakers have already done, I want to show our solidarity with the families and friends of the victims who are accompanying us today and also with all those who would have liked to be here today, but who cannot accompany us under various circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, society is endowed with criminal law to respond to those most serious behaviours for coexistence, establishing restrictions on the rights and freedoms of its perpetrators. Therefore, there is consensus that it is an evaluative norm that combines in our civil and cultural environment elements of minimal intervention, retribution or punishment, resocialization of the sentence and legality. However, from this point on, the desire to protect us from dangers and fear, always rooted in every society, are growing exponentially and demand their incorporation into criminal law. It is what is called the criminal law of risk, danger or criminal law of fear, and with it is claimed not only the punishment of conduct, but also of risks or dangers, anticipating the penalty or extending it over time when it is linked to the fulfilment of often uncertain requirements by the prisoner and to the fallible prediction of his future conduct. This conception of criminal law of danger or fear supports the politicization of criminal law as a satisfaction for the impatience of the public, calling for increasingly severe punishment, fuelled by the sensationalism of some media. This has been described as punitive populism, excessive criminal law or even punitive demagogy. Now it sounds like sarcasm, because that's what Citizens called the permanent prison reviewable five months ago right here in plenary. This described situation reaches its maximum tension when the suffering of the victims is associated with the fear of society. The reviewable permanent prison, in the opinion of the Basque Parliamentary Group, is an example of this exaggerated criminal law and, therefore, we have opposed it since its adoption and today we reiterate it and for the same reasons. In short, it breaks the constitutional consensus that it opted for a guaranteed criminal response governed by the principle of humanization of the penalty embodied in article 25 of the Constitution. Moreover, there are no criminal policy reasons that claim this sanction. It has already been said to the satisfaction that, in our criminal reality, the number of more serious crimes continues to decrease year by year, according to the prosecution's reports. In addition, we have the harshest custodial sentences in our environment and in quite a few cases of full compliance. At the low crime rate, there is a high prison population rate with ages that may exceed 70 years. Nor can I fail to recall that in the rest of the countries where there are those without caps that call life imprisonment, it can be suspended long before - from fifteen years on - and in none of those countries have the constitutional orientation that penalties are reoriented to social reintegration. By the way, this last one I just said is a literal quote from what Citizens told us here also five months ago. As I was telling you, the permanent reviewable prison is one of the most important criminal policy decisions since democracy was established and we would have to reflect on the fact that it was not claimed by the experts when it was adopted. When I refer to experts, I am referring to the legal profession, the criminalistic doctrine and the criminalists, the university through the chairs of criminal law and penitentiary, the prosecutor's office in their memoirs, and also the General Council of the Judiciary, the Judicial Police and Prison Institutions. Nor to this day is it claimed by any of these collectives. The same day a statement was issued signed by a hundred professors of criminal law and penitentiary rejecting it. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that this should make us reflect. For our part, we also said that the reviewable permanent prison was neither necessary nor suitable for the purpose that it claimed to pursue nor proportionally in the strict sense. We also said - and we now ratify it - that we could not share the permanent prison that can be reviewed from the humanist ideology of the Basque Nationalist Party, which postulates ethical values of justice, freedom, equality and dignity of people and in criminal law the guaranteed values of minimal intervention, resocialization and also - because we are not naive - of remuneration or punishment. For these reasons, the Basque Nationalist Party presented the proposal for the repeal of the reviewable permanent prison that this Congress took into consideration five months ago and whose process of amendments and debate was blocked mainly by the People's and Citizens' Party. Citizens now decide to unblock the debate for this procedure of amendments to the whole, and it does so because, as they have certainly reflected different media, it has found, after the elections in Catalonia, in the Criminal Code and in the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, an instrument of electoral competition that it uses without indecent, and we are told that this debate is about the repeal of the permanent prison reviewable and that it cannot be discussed in hot and that we should wait for the resolution of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been the People's Party and Citizens who have presented this hot debate, yes, ladies and gentlemen, who have decided that we are now debating the hardening of the permanent prison that can be reviewed instead of presenting these issues in the debate in the Commission along with the comments of the other groups and, in the end, dealing with them in a calm and profound way after hearing, where appropriate, the views of professionals and experts concerned with the matter. [[rumors]] None of this has ever been intended to be done, first by Citizens and then by the People's Party, but I am convinced that if these proposals for tightening up the reviewable permanent prison are rejected, we will not talk about the matter again, because with their votes they will block its processing again by being embalmed through the ad etherum extension within the deadlines of amendment. I also predict the argument that will be used, we do not discuss it hotly and never before the Constitutional Court pronounces itself, as if the debate that this House has to have was about the constitutionality of the permanent prison that can be reviewed rather than about its opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that the Basque Nationalist Party has brought to this House is a criminal policy debate on whether a reviewable permanent prison sentence is necessary, appropriate and proportionate, a debate on whether it is a measure that we need given the crime and typology we face. Of course, if the Constitutional Court declared its unconstitutionality, there would be nothing more to talk about, but it could be said, and a lot, if it declared it constitutional, because the Constitutional Court, although a negative legislator, is not a legislative chamber. I'm finishing up, President. Criminal law is not built by forgetting the pain of the victims; it takes it into account, but it also relates to the situation of crime and other civilizing values that have allowed evolution in democratic and advanced societies. In other words, with the pain of the victims we sympathize fraternally, but by regulating on the criminal responses the legislator, without not knowing that pain, has to transcend it in the interest of a better protection of the general interest, for, as these 100 professors of criminal and penitentiary law pointed out yesterday and which I have already mentioned, the permanent prison reviewable is not a good law, does not make our society a better society, does not add effectiveness to the avoidance of serious crimes and does entail a significant risk and deterioration of our basic values. For our part, and if we have the opportunity to discuss in the Commission the reviewable permanent prison, which I doubt, we will do so in search of what we consider most appropriate to the situations to be dealt with, guided by the humanist values that inspire our performance as the Basque Nationalist Party and in the interests of the best general interest. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u41	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, take your faces off and let's call things by their name. Today we discuss how two parties, the People's Party and the People's Party's Right, Citizens, claim that the reviewable permanent prison, euphemism that they have used to avoid talking about life imprisonment, should not be repealed. Take off your faces and say if you want to be closer to Ankara or closer to Strasbourg; you choose. [[Rumors]] Left Republican opposes the amendments to the whole proposed, we advocate the repeal of the permanent reviewable prison and we raise a number of issues that should change the position of the People's Party and citizens. Firstly, in view of the effects of general prevention and the fact that the permanent, reviewable prison is currently in force. How has the commission of certain offences avoided or prevented reviewable permanent imprisonment? The answer, according to Esquerra Republicana, in little or nothing. Have you avoided the death of Diana Want? Did you avoid the death of little Gabriel? You, the People's Party, passed practically alone, thus culminating in your repressive trilogy, the law that allowed for life imprisonment. What a huge mistake; what a big mistake trying to cover up your misery with issues that are not or are not due to real social demands and have not been a priority of the citizenry. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u44	You gave a patina of truth to what certain media were making every day, settling in so-called punitive populism. For some time now, you have been settled in vindication, in revenge, in the impossibility of things changing what you do, above humanitarian values such as compassion - you remember that of 'hate crime and pity the offender'?-, above democratic values, above all those values that have made us advance as a society. The reviewable permanent prison violates the principles and values of justice of a democratic society, as we are reminded by more than one hundred professors and professors of criminal law, of course, from various public universities of the Spanish State; a democratic society proclaiming and establishing the prohibition of the infliction of inhuman and degrading punishment, article 15 of the Constitution; a democratic society proclaiming and ordering that the purpose of the sentence should be the resocialization, rehabilitation, reintegration into society of persons who have been deprived of their liberty, article 25.2 of the Constitution, and through such punishment these fundamental principles and values are violated when a life sentence is imposed and with a very long-term horizon for its revision and, consequently, for the purpose of obtaining freedom. With all this in mind, where should we look for the principles of article 25.2 of the Constitution? Where do we find these principles in the two amendments as a whole? How is the principle of legality of article 15 and legal certainty of article 9.3 of the Constitution enforced? The amendments by Citizens and the People's Party make the existing legal text worse. The sentence of permanent imprisonment continues to be twofold indefinite; it does not allow the person serving the sentence to have a minimum sense of a horizon of freedom. Stop missing the truth. The reviewable permanent prison is not homologable to what happens in other countries of Europe: Sweden, revision at ten; Germany at fifteen; France at eighteen. Therefore, the question is clear: what role should the sentence serve and where do you place the emphasis, in vindication and revenge or in reinsertion? For Esquerra republican the penalty of deprivation of liberty must be aimed at resocialization, rehabilitation and re-education; it must necessarily prepare the person for life in freedom. Yes, freedom, that supreme good; and yes, freedom also for those who cause immense harm and irreparable pain. There lies the difference between brutality and humanity, between barbarism and civilization, in the capacity to change, in the capacity to pity even the one unable to imagine the suffering and pain that causes his victims. The Government of Spain handles data, real figures, crime rates. Explain them, tell the truth. Spain is a safe country, with low crime rates. Explain what kind of crime exists, explain that crime rates fall year after year, that when you passed the reviewable permanent prison you accumulated indices down by more than six years. Compare with other countries on the planet where crime rates are very high, where very serious crimes are daily bread and, by the way, in some of them there is the death penalty and this is not an obstacle to the commission of these crimes. Explain the insertion ratios, explain the enormous work of criminologists, social workers, prison officials, prison judges and take over the maximum of Arenal Conception: shut down prisons and open schools. By the way, there are countries that do. The Spanish State is one of the States of the European Union where the longest periods of imprisonment take place, despite having the lowest crime rates and in particular the most serious crimes. And yes, the penalty of permanent reviewable imprisonment is inhumane because it is permanent, imprecise and indeterminate because it is reviewable. It therefore contravenes the criminal principles and justice values of a democratic State. [[Applauds of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u45	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u46	Egun on, good morning. I compare today as the spokesman of a group, the Confederal Group, which is horrified - because it is made up of people - with the crimes that result from evil, that pity the victims, empathizes with them and aims in all cases - within the human who lives in each of us and ourselves - to accompany their pain and their process. And that is the first thought I want to extend to all the people who accompany us today in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] However, we are very aware as political formation, by the mandate of our voters, that there are no victims as a mass, that the victims are individual, have different ideologies, are diverse in their plurality, that even in their process of mourning, of assimilation of what happens to them, they can have completely different reactions and defend completely different positions. The first point to be made is, therefore, that from the point of view of politics we owe it to them and to them and we owe respect to their views and to respect for their process and their mourning. From this point of view, we believe that the idea of justice must be built among all, with them and with them, but also with the whole society that feels attacked and that feels vulnerable when events like these last days have occurred. There are victims, to be heard, who ask that all the beautiful things that have happened to them - solidarity and emotion - not just become anger and anger. And I will allow myself to quote a victim, Javier Couso, whose relatives - who are also accompanying us - said that in the terrible days, after a horrific crime, when the miserable rain of vengeful hatred drops even to the best souls, we will not ask for forgiveness for defending that our justice system has a reinvigorating end. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, we are not going to apologize for thinking that our justice system has to have a reinvigorating end. [[Applauds]] The reviewable permanent prison is contrary to any consideration relating to human rights. We are not going to ask the People's Party to change its way of acting. For the People's Party, when things get twisted, there is always the Penal Code. [[Rumors]] We can always use the Penal Code to divert attention from the discussion of the problems that can really matter. [[Rumors]] You know perfectly well that the life imprisonment you have established is a placebo. You have been carrying out for many years, and uniquely since 2003, carrying out thorough observances, strengthening sentences, issues on which no criminological or social study has determined what its true effectiveness is, beyond a free suffering that it does only destroy trust in our penal and prison system. [[Rumors]] You argue that you do so following a majority will of Spanish society, that we have not seen anywhere except in your voluntarist approach and in the surveys of some newspapers that are related to you. You are making compliance with human rights in Spain dependent on the surveys of some newspapers. [[Applauds]] And this has to be said loud and clear. From Citizens we don't expect much. Really, you are what it takes; we have told you so many times. This time they have been reminded of the agreement reached with the Socialist Party to repeal the reviewable permanent prison in 2016, and they have been reminded of the statements, in October last year, that the reviewable permanent prison was punitive demagoguery. I will not waste time on your proposal because it is not worth it from a scientific point of view. [[Applauds]] I will simply tell you that what we have heard from the spokesman for the Citizens' Group in this rostrum cannot be described in any other way than as an extreme right-wing populist demagogy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could say a great deal about all the considerations that make permanent prison reviewable an unconstitutional, demagogic and contrary to human rights. Other spokespersons have already done so for me and the criminal doctrine, most of the lawyers and the people who dedicate themselves to this already do so daily in forums and other spaces and forums. Because of the limited time, I will only tell you one thing: our confederal group is proudly considered heir to the Spanish tradition linked simply to European principles of Illustration. Mr Girauta, read Beccaria, but read it well because when you read it you will see that Beccaria says that any excessive punishment is tyrannical and, from there, go to the best Spanish doctrine - starting with Conception Arenal - already mentioned -, following by Victoria Kent, another great feminist who made the humanist revolution of prisons -, go to the European Convention on Human Rights, read the 1978 Constitution, examine the prison legislation, the first law of this democracy that you so much praise, from 1979, and then draw the conclusions that you have to draw. [[rumors]] Don't take us to an emotivist approach. Let us have a rational debate, which is what you do not want because you know you would lose that debate. I will only tell you one thing: we will defend the repeal of this barbarity from this rostrum, we will defend it in the talks, we will defend it on the radios, we will defend it in the media. [[A Member of Parliament: On the street]] We're not gonna shut up, we're not gonna apologize. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u47	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say my first words to show our support and to have a first reflection on them: parents and family members who accompany us today in the rostrum. They may leave here without having shared any of the words that this spokesman is going to say. I ask you only one thing: that you try to make an effort to see that the action of the Socialist Party is of absolute respect for the victims, are the focus for any policy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that the death of little Gabriel has left us all, and I say to all without exception, with pain and tear, as pain and tear we have had with each of the victims brutally murdered before, children, young people and adolescents. I wish we could find a mechanism to avoid that, but we all know that the human condition prevents it. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be debating that today, and the People's and Citizens' Group knows that, and if we are debating it, it is because they wanted to bring this debate to the heat of events. [[Rumors.-Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] They know that no, they know that no, Mr. Rivera, no; they know that no. We should never have had this debate under the umbrella of the sadness and tear that results from the death of a small one. [[A honourable Member: What a shame!]] They're going to allow me a little reflection. Today I will try that my words - I cannot avoid it - are not so much in the legal reason, since they are born much of them from the depths of the self, of the same; as you well know, the intimate comes out with difficulty, and in my case also with clumsiness, so I apologize. But, look, we're talking about human behavior as humans that we are, and that's why it's not hard for us to taste anger, anger, thirst for revenge. But we also know that the construction of the state - and so we were taught by authors like Weber or Locke - subtracts the revenge of individuals from the resolution of conflicts; that we do through rational processes such as justice, and justice needs laws, and that is what we have to do here. I'm going to remind Aristotle because 2400 years ago he was telling us that the law is reason, but not any reason, reason free of passion. But after invoking Aristotle, I will be allowed 2400 years later to bring words from a woman destroyed and broken by pain, Patricia Ramírez: I have no words to thank people for the beautiful actions, even though I have not had a happy ending. I see a lot of rabies talking about this woman. In memory of the 'fisherman', I ask not to spread anger, not to speak of the detained woman and that the good people, the good actions and the image of Gabriel remain. [[Applauds]] One last: Faith and good deeds have brought out the most beautiful of people and cannot stand in that woman's face. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the father of two daughters, a judge for more than thirty years and I can assure you that the pain of the victims is not alien to me; I know the pain of the victims, I know their suffering, I know their strength, but I also know their vulnerability and, therefore, I and the group I represent have always made it very clear that the victims are the central axis of any policy, including criminal policy. I'm going to tell you two obviouss. The first, that in the times of liquid modernity, of the criminalization of the adversary, of unique thought, the victims cannot be used, neither they nor their pain. [[Applauds]] Lords of the People's Party, Lords of Citizens, cannot be used, neither they nor their pain, and that is what you are doing. [[Applauds]] A few days ago, very few, I listened to the statements of the spokesman of the main opposition party in the little one's burning chapel and felt shame, blush and blush. [[A lady MP: Hala!]] I saw how the Minister of the Interior was able to stain a wonderful gesture of the mother by giving her a scarf to sneak in with her in the cathedral where the funeral honors were being performed for the little one. [[Protests in the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Applause in the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the society I want for my daughters. [[Protests.-Applause.- Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u50	That's not the society we should want. One last obvious... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u51	Quiet. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u52	What we're discussing today, it's not... [[Protests.-Mr. Chiquillo Barber utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u53	One second, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Chiquillo, I'm calling you to order. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u54	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to say an obvious thing. Today we are not repealing the reviewable permanent prison, today we are only seeing the amendment to the whole with alternative text that two parliamentary groups have tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the chapter on blush and shame as parliamentary groups; that of the Citizens' Party. [[Rumors]] The permanent prison that can be reviewed is demagogic even in its name. [[Protests]] They called it that to make it sound nicer, but we all know very well that we are actually facing life imprisonment. The life imprisonment that you have entered is in contradiction with the values that inspire our Magna Charter. Let us not play with that pain; there are many victims who suffer it directly. In addition, we must not shift the false belief from the Legislature that a tightening of penalties will translate into greater protection and security. Ladies and gentlemen, I could have subscribed to this sentence, but no, says the spokesman for the Citizens' Group to maintain his position in the repeal of the permanent prison reviewable. [[Applauds]] Today, in an exercise of obscene transformation, Mr Girauta, obscene, because it is what they have done, they come to defend an opposite position and what they do is harden the penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a way of doing politics that one day will pass us the bill. With regard to the People's Party, we are talking about the same thing. They have said as an active and passive person that we should not be allowed to go to permanent reviewable prison until the Constitutional Court has ruled that, as you know, it is the position of the Socialist Party, which did not bring this introduction, brought it by the PNV; ladies and gentlemen, look at the sitting papers. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No, no!]] [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No, no!]] The Basque Nationalist Party, with all legitimacy, brought it in and told them in the October debate that it was inappropriate and unnecessary because we have a time of fulfillment of forty full and effective years, and I gave them examples that we had tremendously harsh penalties, even - which is where Citizens have taken hold - some samples that the previous legislation was even harsher, but not. I tell you one thing, gentlemen of the People's Party: without reviewable permanent prison we beat ETA; with reviewable permanent prison, we have had Gabriel's death. [[Applause.- Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No, no!]] That's not the point. [[Applauds.-Protests]] And if they are so concerned about the victims, I will tell you one thing: Article 3 of their statutes speaks of the protection of the victims. I conclude, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u55	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u56	I tell you one thing: worry about all the victims because there are victims who have been waiting for their support for eighty years. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, applause.- Mr Hernando Fraile asked for the floor.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Mr. Hernando. [[Rumors]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u58	Madam President, I am asking for the floor for personal remarks made by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u59	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, do not make me suspend the plenary session, which would be quite a blow. [[Rumors]] One second, Your Honor. I beg you all to remain silent! You have a minute to make reference to the allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u60	Yes, Madam President. The spokesman for the Socialist Group referred to or intended to refer to statements I made in the Provincial Council of Almería last Monday. I want to tell you that I wasn't the first one to make statements that day. I made them in the same place and in the same place as Mrs. Díaz, president of the Andalusian Board. [[Protests.-Several Members: No!]] Just ten minutes later. Therefore, if you want to speak of shame, you will be ashamed of yourself, not of the shame that many Spaniards have to feel right now after hearing your shameful statement here today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes. [[Rumors.- Mrs Robles Fernández and Mr Campo Moreno ask for the floor]] Excuse me, does anyone want to ask for the floor? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, respect. [[Rumors]] Only one person in the group can intervene. Go ahead, Madam Spokesman. You have a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u62	Madam President, the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party has asked for the floor for alleged personal remarks. There has not been a single consideration of a personal allusion made to it by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] It has used it to attack the President of the Community of Andalusia and it seems to me that it is not acceptable at this time. [[protests]] [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun voting. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen, please. We are voting in the first place on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the honourable Members. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 260 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u65	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u66	We now proceed to vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July on the Judiciary, on the improvement of universal justice, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 plus 3 telematics votes, 346; 134 plus 1 telematics vote, 135; 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u67	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u68	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment to the whole with an alternative text to the proposal for an organic law to reform the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, presented by the Parliamentary Group Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 plus 3 telematics votes, 346; 166 plus 1 telematics vote, 167; 176 plus 2 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u69	It's rejected. We now proceed to vote on the amendment to the whole with an alternative text to the proposal for an organic law to reform the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 plus 3 telematics votes, 346; 166 plus 1 telematics vote, 167; 176 plus 2 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-15-CD180315.u70	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, standing up, addressing the public gallery]] The meeting rose. It was eleven and thirty-five minutes in the morning.
