ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 27, which relates to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u2	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to ensure equal treatment and opportunities for men and women in employment and occupation. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u3	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now take this into consideration in the House the proposal for a law to guarantee equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in employment and occupation. It is a motion for a law which the People's Party Government vetoed and which, now, with a socialist Government, has been unblocked and, fortunately, we are going to proceed to its consideration or, at least, to its debate. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a legislative text of forty-nine articles, three transitional provisions, one derogating provision and eleven final provisions. It is these final provisions that affect existing legislation that are key to achieving the objective pursued by this law. The Organic Law 3/2007 is therefore amended for the effective equality of women and men; the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, approving the consolidated text of the Workers'Statute, which is the bulk of the legislative reform; the Royal Legislative Decree 2015, which approves the consolidated text of the Basic Staff Regulations; Act 20/2007, of the Self-Employment Statute; Act 43/2006, for the improvement of growth and employment; the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015, approving the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act and Act 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector. The purpose of this legislation is to give effect to the right to equal treatment and opportunities between women and men in the field of employment and occupation. Its scope is therefore constituted by the work of workers on behalf of others, the scope of public employment, the scope of self-employment, specific and very specific cooperatives and forecasts relating, for example, to victims of gender-based violence, by providing as a cause for interruption of the duration of their training contracts and the period of their probation the situation of victims so that they can exercise the right to effective judicial protection. The 2007 Organic Act on the Effective Equality of Women and Men aims to give effect to the principle of equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in general, eliminating any direct or indirect discrimination against women. It was a pioneering law, a comprehensive law and a transversal law, but we have to be critical and aware that, ten years later, those provisions of a declarative nature, declarations of intentions, of promotion, of promotion, have not had the result that was expected at the time, because gender mainstreaming in public policies, gender impact reports, the balanced appointment of public officials, which is still not strengthened, the promotion of equality in collective bargaining, the permits linked to the reconciliation of personal, family and labour life, and, above all, these shortcomings occur in the field of labour relations. We had the opportunity to discuss and share the specific analysis of the situation of women in the labour market, especially in a recent way when we talked about the law against the wage gap. Thus, negative data on women's work are devastating, not only in terms of wages and pensions, but also in terms of promotion and occupational classification, working conditions, occupational safety and health, precariousness, temporality and lack of equal conditions in the mechanisms for accessing the systems of reconciliation of personal, work and family life. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to define ourselves as a fully democratic society if there are not sufficient guarantees to give effect to the principle of equal treatment in employment and occupation. Ensuring equality in employment is not just social justice, it is a question of intelligence, because it means managing talent effectively; the talent of half of a society that is wasted and that does not have the same opportunities to prove it as men. The gender gap in the employment rate in 2017 is 11 per cent, the wage gap is 22 per cent; 64.3 of the lowest wage earners are women; 24 per cent of women have part-time employment compared to only 7.3 per cent of men. It is unacceptable to think, because we don't even think about it, that when a man comes to a job interview someone who is interviewing him can ask him if he is going to have a family or plans to have a family in a short or medium period of time. [[Applauds]] It's unthinkable for men, but it's the day-to-day women of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say bluntly that the great revolution of the twentieth century was the incorporation of women into the labour market. That forever changed the model of society that we had enjoyed so far, and the incorporation of women into paid work made nothing the same again. But that giant step of the domestic sphere, where they exercised an unremunerated hidden social benefit, did not exempt him, however, when he took on the paid work, from that role, and we can also describe him as that ballast, in terms of care, which is attributed fundamentally to the women of this country. Therefore, it is not only a matter of breaking glass ceilings and breaking down vertical segregation, but also of ending these sticky soils, which is the overload of care and household tasks that prevent women from advancing in our professional careers. Neither care nor conciliation is women's exclusive business, but it is we who always give up. 92% of those applying for child care leave in our country are women, compared to only 7.66% of men. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law we will achieve positive action measures to reverse this injustice, collective bargaining in public and private employment, interruptions and limitations in professional promotion, avoiding job market abandonment, under-representation in managerial and decision-making positions and female pre-eminence in part-time work and, of course, the persistent wage gap. What are the key aspects of this legislative text in a very short way? First of all, I would like to acknowledge and call for the strengthening of collective bargaining. For us as a parliamentary group, it is an ideological issue. We bet that it is the social partners, that it is the qualified representatives of workers and employers in this country who regulate their labour relations. Respect for the bargaining autonomy of economic and social actors is fundamental to making collective bargaining much fairer and more equitable. The labour reform of the People's Party weakened that role of our country's social and economic actors. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, have we shared the view that the preponderance of industry agreements and not of company agreements is necessary in this country? That the atomization of collective bargaining does what it does is weaken the position of the weakest part of the labour relationship, which is the worker? As regards the exercise of the right to reconcile personal, work and family life, it is now necessary to strengthen the role of collective bargaining; collective bargaining in the field of dependent work, but also the necessary interface between legitimate representation in the public sector and self-employment. They will therefore have an obligation and will have to respond to the needs to take direct decisions and positive actions that result in the termination of situations that are evident due to situations of inequality. The collective agreement binds the parties, therefore it is part of the applicable law. This is therefore directly linked to an important section of this Act, which is the section on a sanctioning regime in case of non-compliance with the agreement or agreement. In the end, the mere declarations are not enough, it is necessary to demand and be able to have tools to be able to demand legislative compliance. It therefore restricts the right of the employer to distribute in an irregular way the day, geographical mobility or substantial modification of working conditions, because when making such a decision it will have to take into account the situation of workers who at that time are in a position to exercise the right to reconcile their personal, working and family life. The question therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is that the right to conciliation becomes a right emanating from the employment relationship and is a personal and non-transferable right. It is also a right to adapt the day for working people with children after they have returned from parental leave and until they reach the age of twelve. Certain permits, contract suspensions and surpluses linked to conciliation are substantially modified, thus becoming individual and non-transferable rights, as I said earlier. For example, the birth permit is reduced to six mandatory weeks after birth for the mother to recover. The birth permit for the other parent of six mandatory weeks for the purpose of fulfilling the obligation of article 68 of the Civil Code, which will be amended on the basis of the agreements reached with the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Puerdes for the purposes of the budgetary procedure and which will reach sixteen weeks in the year 2021. The equal and non-transferable parental leave for the care of less than twelve months, which will be ten weeks. In addition, incentives are introduced when the reduction in the daytime for nursing care, the leave for childcare under 12 months or the leave for childcare under 3 years are exercised in equivalent terms by the two parents. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to highlight a fundamental concept in politics and it is political will. Political will is not only expressed through verbal phrases and commitments, political will is expressed through a commitment that must be translated into concrete measures, legislative measures, executive measures or regulatory measures and, of course, with budgetary support. Everything else serves absolutely nothing, at least reality is not changed and injustices and inequalities are not combated. Therefore, we are not accepting, ladies and gentlemen, the things we cannot change, we are changing the things we cannot accept. The women of this country on March 8 sent us a clear and strong message with their voices, their claim, their cry and their struggle and they told us that nothing can be again as before. Their struggle and their demands for justice, equality and freedom must be shared and carried out by all the parliamentary groups in this House, in accordance with the general will because it is not the private patrimony of anyone but of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, let us do so, therefore, once again, let us move forward together and together. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this consideration. Then we debate, enrich the text, but move on. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u4	Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mr Matute García de Jalón, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Pick it up on. Euskal Herria Bildu will not oppose, will not hinder the admission to procedure or the consideration of the initiative we are discussing today, but we will sow front and we will also do so on this occasion: we do not like too much. It seems to us that it remains in a package, in a series of goodist measures that have a very limited impact. They do so when they talk, for example, about positive forms of action and link them only to one part of the labour market and not to the whole; when they talk about quotas, which are measures that can have an impact and importance whenever they go to the root of the problem, but if they do not have a very limited impact; that they are generalist when they talk about reports, statistics and bonuses, but in any case they do not seek a structural reform of the oppression system in which everything that we are talking about today is unfolding. In general, we believe that this is a wide range of measures that are dispersed, without material concreteness in many cases and that do not at all guarantee equality in employment and occupation, because, from our point of view, from the point of view of the women and men of Euskal Herria Bildu, it is a structural problem that has to do with a patriarchal social order and a structuring of the public sphere, employment, and private, that of care, for women, deeply unjust at the root. As long as no steps are taken to recognize and value care work, to distribute it fairly with the State and men, to eliminate numerous structural discriminations, we will be changing everything so that nothing changes. For us and for us the origin of the wage gap is in the already mentioned sexual division of labour and in the vertical and horizontal segregation of it, on which nothing or almost nothing, from our point of view, proposes this proposal of law. We talk about inequalities in the educational path, in access to employment, in the conditions of employment, in job insecurity, which is primarily women's, and so on. Known is our position on the need to overthrow the laws that the People's Party brought into its government, such as labour reform, the Aliens Act, Lomce, the special regime for domestic workers and others, but in any case, to understand our position or to understand how we approach this debate, it is easy to do so by answering three questions: Is a democratic society that penalizes people with lower wages for being women? Is a society fair that protects women less than men? Is a society free where women cannot dispose of their own bodies and lives at risk of being cornered at the workplace? Our answer is obvious, it's no. That is why we are committed to full sovereignty for our country and to the construction of an order among all who are more just, free and equal.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u6	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are again debating equality, which we are pleased to see; this time we are discussing equal treatment of opportunities for women and men in employment and occupation. In the Spanish State, working women continue to be discriminated against, that is true. There is a wage gap, glass ceiling, sticky soil, discrimination because of being mothers, as you yourself have pointed out; there is even sexual harassment, and it is obviously important to legislate to combat this discrimination that we working women suffer, but what about the invisible ones? Because the workers are the visible ones, but there are the invisible ones. In the 19th century, women became part of the paid labour market, because we had been part of the labour market for a long time; indeed, if today we look at the figures of the submerged economy and of the care economy, which we do not compute, which we do not see, the figures of that unpaid work remain quite demolishing. We can talk about the housewives, the shoemakers in Elche, the family carers of dependents, the 'kellys', who clean the hotel rooms for a very low price; the women in surplus to take care of ascendants or descendants; the migrants, engaged in non-contracts, to the black market. They are the invisible ones and they are precisely the ones who need the most protection and this law leaves them out. They are outside of all the laws that we enact here, no one protects them if they suffer harassment, they are not entitled to permits, pensions, protection or casualties of any kind. They have no right to anything, they are invisible just as women were before the 19th century, before our work paid off. So we cannot leave them out of all that now, and I propose to you, Mrs Cancela, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party: let us take advantage that these laws are going to enter, let us take advantage of this law of equality in employment and occupation, but let us go a little further, let us take advantage to amend this law in paper and that it is also the law that recognizes all those invisible once and for all and the law that really fights against female exploitation in all its terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u8	For the same group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Cancela, my group will vote in favour of taking your initiative into consideration. We share much of the diagnosis: the existence of a problem of inequality in the labour market; the inadequacy of the policies that we have developed so far in the last twenty, twenty-five years; the reality of a segmented labour market - more women working part-time, more women working on temporary contracts - and the segregation of the labour market itself - submerged economy, feminized sectors, etc., etc. -. In addition, of course, the policies of family protection and reconciliation that we have built among all, in the end, have damaged women's opportunities in the labour market and have not served to improve the whole of Spanish society, in terms of family well-being, and the expression of this collective failure is our very low birth and fertility rates. Having said that, on the concrete content of your initiative I will tell you that we will have to work on it within the framework of the corresponding parliamentary presentation and there, Mrs Cancela, I invite you to seek the broadest consensus. Because the virtue of this legislative change is not only going to be in the concrete content of the law that will end up passing, but the law gives rise to the widest possible support, because these kinds of laws need, in order to have an impact on society, to last over time. I therefore invite you to this vocation to broaden your gaze beyond your legitimate agreements with Unidad Podemos. I should also remind you that within the framework of the Toledo Pact, on the proposal of some groups, we have focused attention on the inequalities that arise in the field of social protection and we are clearly identifying that these inequalities in the field of pensions stem from inequalities in the labour market. The best policy to guarantee decent pensions to all the citizens of the Spanish State has to do with employment policies. They will find us there, in that vocation of reaching the broadest possible consensus on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u11	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Cancela, my group will vote in favour of this proposal. It is going to vote despite this, because obviously we will not always agree with the content of all the proposals that are included, and that is why we will be taking action. But let me tell you that it was above all a matter of form that I deserved some thought that I would like to pass on to you. First of all, this proposal clearly has an objective with which we agree, which is to give effect to the right to equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in the field of employment and occupation in view of the limited results obtained from Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March for the effective equality of women and men. You make a prolific intervention, by calling it in some way. In eight titles and forty-nine articles it addresses many issues, some of which are novel, such as the specification of discrimination arising from motherhood, the assumption of family obligations and marital status as a form of direct or indirect discrimination on the basis of sex, which we find to be an interesting innovation and which we will support. As I say, it addresses a series of innovations that regulate through eight differentiated titles. These include provisions promoting the amendment of eight legislative texts and two royal decrees. We can point out nothing about its content, although I say to you that in some of us we agree, in others not so much, but we will agree or disagree with them within the relevant Commission. But let me criticise both your group and others, not so much for its content but for its form, and it is that this initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was published in the Official Gazette of Congress on September 7, 2018; date quite later than that of February 22, this year, when another proposal of the We Group was also debated in this House that, although its title referred to the breaking of the wage gap between men and women or something similar - I do not remember exactly -, it had a broad list of measures that were also aimed substantially at this same object; they were not all coincident but some did. So much so that we cannot fail to note that there is a coincidence in the texts and that there is a coincidence in the legislative texts that are intended to reform and there is even a coincidence in the sense of many of the changes that have to be made. Having found this, our question is, since this is an important issue - some other person has pointed out - that perhaps it should have deserved full attention, would it not have been more logical that, being the party that is supporting the current Government - which was already acting at the time of the publication in the Official Gazette of the Congress of this initiative - it would have acted according to the possibilities provided for in Law 50/1997 of the Government, incorporating into it all those reports referred to in the law, precisely because it was not a proposal for a law of the Socialist Group but a draft law of the Government, which would have analysed, examined its requirements and background and consulted with the agents to intervene? Because that is the question, this is an issue too broad, too serious and too plural to be able to attend to only one project, when there is also another on which we express ourselves favorably in its day as we are going to do now, but we are going to do it in a dissociated way, differentiated in two committees which, in our view, makes no sense to separate them. That was when there was a regulatory and constitutional measure, even as a result of article 87, which was the initiative of the Government Bill. It hasn't been done and we think it's a mistake. In spite of this, it seems necessary to us for all the reasons stated by those who preceded me in the speech, but also because we think it is appropriate to pay more integrated attention, more plural than that which is done in each of the projects that have been submitted. I'm not going to repeat the reasons for supporting her, I think we all agree. The gap between men and women is not only about pay, it is about many other cultural and social phenomena that we must try to resolve in some way, but I would like to see in the future, when dealing with such serious issues as this, the reality that the comprehensive treatment of these issues must be done with efficient reports, with sufficient attention and, therefore, with the Government's responsibility for the government that you support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u12	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by recalling that today we are one year away from the unjust imprisonment of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart for crimes they did not commit, with evidence that they do not exist, because the previous government did not respect the separation of powers. [[Applauds]] With regard to the subject before us, we are again in plenary to take into consideration a proposal to encourage measures to put an end to the obstacles and barriers that patriarchy has built over the centuries to keep women out of the system and in a situation of permanent subordination, whether in the labour market, in decision-making or in our own home. Women are discriminated against simply because they are women, and some of us are also discriminated against because they are mothers, and the workplace is one of the areas where it is most evident. Many initiatives have already been taken in this House to combat gender discrimination, some with more results than others, after years of demand. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya says yes to meritocracy, productivity and measures that end the wage gap and the glass ceiling. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya says yes to conciliation, to the compact and flexible schedules that allow and guarantee co-responsibility in the tasks of the home and in the care of children and other relatives. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya says yes to compulsory and equal maternity and paternity leave for both spouses. And one last point, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party: they are not stuck with the re-centralizing obsession of their fellow members of the People's Party; they must respect each of the competences transferred to the autonomous communities, they must respect them and not cut the wings to those public administrations, such as the Catalan one, which have driven real legislative changes in this area, such as the 17/2015 Act of 21 July on effective equality of women and men, which was partially appealed and laid down by the Constitutional Court. If this bill goes beyond consideration, do not hesitate that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will work hard to include new proposals that guarantee our rights and freedoms as women, just as we will continue to fight to prevent our voice from disappearing and drowning in a Spain that restricts freedom of expression and the right to decide. Free political prisoners now! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u14	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Reyes Rivera from the Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u15	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many times we have already come to this rostrum in what goes on in the legislature to talk about inequality in employment between men and women? If I am not mistaken, we have already had more than seven debates; there are seven approved initiatives, some - the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party pointed out - such as that of the United Group We can, far more complete in relation to the wage gap than the one we are dealing with here today. And now, the ruling party, that of the decrees, the one that can present bills, the one that should put into effect what has already been approved, brings us here one more initiative. Let's go into detail. Let's go with the content of the proposal, although I will start by reading them a paragraph of another law, to see if it sounds to you. Article 1 reads as follows: The purpose of this Act is to give effect to the right of equal treatment and opportunity between men and women, in particular through the elimination of discrimination against women, regardless of their circumstances or status. Do you know what law it is? I guess you'll have it clear, it's the Equality Act, a law that's been in place, you know how long? For eleven years, since 2007. And now read Article 1 of the proposed law they present; except that they change'make it effective' by 'guaranteeing effectiveness' are identical. You might say that you only copy article 1, which is the object of the law, but with the following articles it happens almost the same: articles 2 and 3 coincide with articles 2 and 3 of that law; article 4 is exactly the same as 5 of the 2007 Act and article 5 corresponds to articles 6, 7 and 8 of that Act; the 6 is 11, the 7 is 12, the 8 is what they say on 14 and 15, and so a few more. Socialist ladies and gentlemen, this law that you bring here as a novelty is a calc of the 2007 law. You are becoming fond of this plagiarism; you have plagiarismed yourselves. [[Applauds]] The most important content of this bill, more than half of it, has already been approved for eleven years. And the 2007 Act is not a bad law, but it is only a declaration of principles; the years have shown us that it is not an operational law, the figures and data of inequality that exist today, and you continue to do so. Despite the fact that women are the majority in university studies, about 58%, our employment rate is 12 points below that of men; the temporary rate is 25% compared to 8% of men, and in addition to being more precarious we also charge less than men, 20% less than average, which can be up to 37.5% when we talk about women and men with primary education. Only 11.8% of women are on IBEX boards of directors. And we women spend twice as many hours on household chores and care, we take 93% of the child care work surplus. That is the reality, that is the data that needs to be changed and that will not be achieved with more declarations of principle, which is basically what this bill includes. Effective measures must be put in place to combat inequality. On the other hand, I must say, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, that, in addition to plagiarizing the 2007 Act, they introduce certain new points, most of them are semantic changes that will have little impact on women's lives, but there are three clear developments and we must recognise it to the Socialist Party: one, they add sanctions; two, they create a new body, the state office for combating discrimination on the grounds of sex in employment, and three, they equate paternity and maternity permits. As far as sanctions are concerned, there is one problem: this law is based on indeterminate legal principles and nothing is available on how to interpret and apply it, so even if it includes sanctions, it will probably be inoperative. With regard to the creation of the new body provided for in Article 13, I must tell you that perhaps this point does fulfil the function you expect; if approved, you will surely be able to place some more member of your executive or someone who at least has a Socialist Party card, you will have one more organ in which you can continue to exercise the art of fingering, which you have already quite perfected. We don't like fingers, we know it already; we have put forward several initiatives to put an end to them and, of course, as you will understand, they won't have our support in this if we don't ensure that the staff in charge is properly qualified and independent. And finally, the third novelty, which is not so much: the equalization of paternity and maternity leave. We have also discussed this in this House for a long time, but the only change in the lives of Spanish mothers and fathers that has taken place so far has been achieved by Citizens. In 2016, parents had only two weeks; in 2018 they had five weeks. This is so thanks to Citizens; we have achieved three more weeks in just two years. [[Applauds]] And in addition to squareting the accounts, something that you and your partners don't seem to be quite good at. By the way, we approved that increase despite the vote against the Socialist Party. This is fact policy, that is reality, not smoke or propaganda, which is what you sell. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem of labour inequality between men and women and the causes of this inequality are diverse and many structural: the dysfunctional nature of our labour market, with a very high rate of unemployment and especially of female and youth unemployment; the lack of investment in reconciliation and family support policies; the lack of co-responsibility, etc. All this must be addressed jointly from the State and with incentives for private companies to also implement certain policies, but not a single incentive includes here. And, of course, going through collective bargaining, of course, Mrs. Cancela. We are talking about a very serious matter; policies of equality, together with those of reconciliation at work and promotion of birth, are today a basic pillar for our welfare state to be sustainable in the future, so that pensions, health, education can be paid. It is time to take it seriously with a comprehensive law like the one we have presented, our law on reconciliation, equality and support for families. It is not the time to plagiarize laws that have not yielded the expected results or to patch them up, because, ladies and gentlemen, all this is going to be one of the most important challenges for Spain in the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u17	Good afternoon. Mrs Cancela, of course we are going to vote in favour of this initiative; moreover, I do not know if seven, but it seems that seven hundred laws and seven hundred debates will be necessary to achieve real equality between men and women at work because it is clear that the work we do here does not serve. Mrs. Cancela, we'd like to make a few clarifications. This rule draws from the sources, as its own explanatory statement points out, of the Equality between Men and Women Act of 2007, and says the very explanatory statement that underpins the law that it has argued that it has had at least discrete results, not to mention that they are insignificant. I say you say this literally. We believe that just drinking from the sources of the Equality Act is a problem and I say why. It is a problem because really almost all the rule that you present here today is to abound in what are the matters of declaration of intentions of a law that we had. What do I mean? That perhaps what we need in our country right now are executive laws; that is, that they effectively guarantee compliance with and respect for the rights of equality between men and women in employment and occupation, and that is precisely what is lacking in this rule. Let's give examples. There is a lack of coordination in a text that is per se prolific. Thus, the text abounds in judicial protection in the area of discrimination, but forgets that the Law on Social Jurisdiction and the Law on Litigation must be reformulated in order to ensure that such judicial protection in the area of discrimination can be implemented. This deficit makes the law in principle exactly nothing, in a mere declaration of intentions that we already had in the Equality Act. Two, it draws attention to the fact that this rule obviates all that has to do with equality in the area of social security and very particularly in the area of pensions. You know - I'm not going to give data so I'm not tired - that we have a pension gap close to 39%. It is curious that, being a law that deals with a lot of subjects on a cross-cutting basis, it precisely forgets or leaves out Social Security and the public pension subsystem. We think it's a deficit. We too obviously, as you know, in our proposal we have formulated the need to make progress on equal formulae in bodies that are essential for changing women's lives at work and, above all, that are the bodies, the agents who negotiate the conventions. We would have liked Article 69 of the Workers' Statute, as in our proposal, that is, in the electoral processes of trade unions and all their units of representation, to necessarily have to have parity. If we don't, we don't get much. It is true that you incorporate it in the negotiating committee and in the bargaining unit, but not so in what has to do with the electoral processes stricto sensu today. It is therefore also a deficit. And in no way do we share, Mrs Cancela, that in the boards of directors women on an equal basis we cannot reach them until the year 2023, five more years. Eleven years have passed since the Equality Act and now five more years. It's just that my daughter Carmela is going to be of age and we're going to go on without sitting on the boards of directors the women of this country! [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, therefore, we do not share it. More questions. You speak in a declaratory way of strengthening collective bargaining - it is true that you say this, already said the Equality Act - but you do not tell us what the contents are that are obliged to negotiate the social agents. We are very clear, they have to negotiate clearly each and every one of the retributive matters and also justify to us what are the reasons that point to the existence of a complement to the detriment of another, and they also have to motivate when they do not do so. This declaration of intent was already in the Equality Act; that is, it does not serve to give effect to what we need today. They also call for the amendment of Article 34.8 of the Workers' Statute, which, as you know, refers to the day and in particular to the adaptation of the day for work conciliation. And it happens the same as at first, that you forget to modify the special procedure governing this matter, that is, that which gives effect to these rights in article 139 of the Law on Social Jurisdiction. So, we're back to the way we were. And what am I going to tell you about the contents of the equality plans? Mrs. Cancela, I studied this rule with great affection and, frankly, it says nothing more than what the Equality Act told us in its articles 45 and 46. Moreover, I thought that you were going to take advantage of it so that the equality plans in those companies, which are absolutely voluntary in nature, could improve them, and you have been short and tell us exactly what you were saying before, that is, that we are still as we were. It's a confusing law, it's said. The fact that you put in a parallel lane a part of violations and sanctions without incardinating it in the Smooth, I would like you to explain to me how it will be, because it is obvious that, at least in technical terms, in legal terms it causes more than confusion. And there's one thing I'm worried about. You incorporate the penalty for nullity in dismissal in the case of maternity. This is nothing new, Mrs. Cancela, this is it. We would have liked, as they are claiming sentences that I suppose you know, for example the Porras Guisando case, in which we are re-condemned - you know what the Kingdom of Spain tells us about this issue - a restorative area. What needs to be done is to act on the part of prevention of dismissal in the event of maternity and with that double facial, that double face of having clearly the repair field. Indeed, as it is in the norm, it is what we already have today in our Workers' Statute. You also talk about the right to breast-feeding. It is true that you change the name, but it is the same, you do not advance towards co-responsibility formulas, as we have just agreed, for example, in the budgetary agreement for non-transferable permits between men and women. More questions. Of course, of course, we thought it was a law, since it is prolific, that established a real institutional system to combat discrimination in employment and occupation. That is not the case, you are simply setting up an office to combat discrimination in employment, but - I know you know our standard - for what we chose was precisely to make it cross-cutting and create an inter-ministerial commission from which each and every ministry is involved; two, obviously a general directorate, and three - our proposal is known - we want these offices to exist in each and every provincial directorate of the Labour Inspectorate. Finally, they have not taken the opportunity to reshape the Women's Institute itself, which must have greater participation in these processes, with the capacity to legitimize them or even, as we are already asking from the feminist movement, that the women's associations themselves of a state nature can be a legitimate part, beyond the social actors. With that, however, it is a law that is good for this country; we will improve it in the procedure of presentation and, unlike what the People's Party was doing with Mariano Rajoy at the head, who told us not to get into it, we will get into it and work with absolute affection and rigour this initiative. So go ahead and all to prepare for the March 8 strike, that this year we do believe it has to be historic and in it we have to be those women that we access to the world of work, but also those millions of women that are actually invisible and they are those who give us life. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs Dueñas Martínez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a law which is now under discussion. Let me go ahead with my group's commitment to work to promote equal opportunities for women and men in all areas. Look, I'm not telling you that there are no things left for us to do, that surely and surely many, and that is why we are here today, but with the policies of the former People's Party Government we have managed, among other things, to recover all the female employment destroyed by the crisis that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, with your ineffective management, have generated. And not only that, new jobs were also created; the wage gap was placed in historical minima; we managed to be the euro area country that narrowed the gap the most since recovery, and we also for the first time regulated the right to telework, the right to a reduction in childcare hours, the part-time contract, where protection was equal to full-time protection; we modified the breastfeeding permit and extended the paternity permit to five weeks. That is to move forward with facts in conciliation, in co-responsibility, in employment and ultimately in equality. It is very well, ladies and gentlemen, that you bring this here today and it is good that you strengthen your commitment to achieving real and effective equality because the initiatives that your parliamentary group has brought to this House have been different. I remind you, back in 2005, when you were in office, of a non-legislative proposal that brought the People's Parliamentary Group, in which we urged the Government, among other things, to many of the things that you bring to this House, including in the area of wage inequality, to assess progress, to increase the work of the Labour Inspectorate in order to avoid inequalities, to penalise criminal enterprises in an exemplary way or to work for equal pay within the framework of collective bargaining. And do you know what your parliamentary group did? So reject this initiative. Interestingly, in 2010 it was you who brought a similar initiative. And what did my parliamentary group do? Support and stand by the Socialist Party defending women, as we are going to do today. Ladies and gentlemen, wage inequality in Spain is not a new issue, it is not a topic of today, which is fortunately minimal, it is a topic of yesterday and it will certainly remain a topic of tomorrow, although we are here today to move forward as quickly as possible. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, who criminalise the policies of the People's Party so much, should have had consistency and defended in the past what you are defending today in the present; that, as the saying goes, it is never too late if the saying is good. Ladies and gentlemen, as the European Commission affirms in its Strategic Commitment for Equality of Women and Men 2016-2018, employment is the main priority for equal pay and for increasing women's participation in the labour market. In that connection, the former Executive of the People's Party has been working, with the figures you already know. The commitment of the People's Party is absolutely indisputable, as indisputable as it is that we have already recorded in this House a proposal for a comprehensive law on equality and remunerative transparency between women and men, because we are convinced, as has been pointed out in this House today, that it is essential to eliminate and correct all forms of remunerative discrimination by sex. Mrs Cancela, I do not doubt the good faith of your initiative, but I am obliged to remind you of the data that precede you in the administration when you ruled, because we must not forget that between 2007 and 2011 the number of unemployed women multiplied with the management of the Socialist Party by 2.5 times, reaching the figure of 2,429,600 women, and today, thanks to the policies that the People's Party has developed responsibly and coherently, we have 8,700,000 women working in Spain. Like I say, that doesn't happen by chance. I also remind you - because here we talked about the wage gap - that with its management the wage gap increased from 16.1% in 2008 to 17.6% at the end of 2011. These are, among other things, the results of the policies that have been developed for women, Mrs Cancela. I asked them before not to spoil the good results that the People's Party Government has left behind after its administration, and I say this because they have recently signed a budget agreement their formation and the formation of Uniti Podemos, agreement that in our view is irresponsible and unruly, and that penalizes women and men in our country, because you sincerely believe that by increasing spending excessively, by raising taxes to businesses, self-employed and workers, by increasing recruitment and by increasing the deficit and debt will they create employment? I say to you, no, quite the opposite, and in our view this is of manifest irresponsibility. An agreement that will mortgage the future of all men and women in our country. I remind you once again, ladies and gentlemen, that employment is the main instrument for achieving equality, so do not spoil for purely partisan interests, for whatever it may be, the whole way up to now, because if they do, this debate that we have here today will serve little or nothing and your speech for equality will be on a wet paper. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. We will vote in favour of this consideration, it will be the time to debate the content of it, and we will do so because we believe, without the need for labels, in equality with capitals, with all that this concept which is so important for women and men entails. Our country must already count on all its talent to compete in a global economy and in it - in our country - women, all women, are 50%. Only in this way - I am absolutely convinced - will we move forward, but let us do it without haste but without pause, let us make it a reality with responsibility, coherence and the commitment of the whole of society. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u20	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the organ for the reform of the Organization Act 5/1985 of 19 June 1985 of the General Electoral Regime, for the amendment of the provisions relating to the elections. [[File number 122/00267]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u21	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, for the amendment of the provisions relating to municipal elections. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Alós López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, allow me to make a personal statement. As a Member of this House I have to say that I am a privileged and very proud to be able to work from here for all the Spaniards, but nothing is comparable to the feeling and pride I had when I was mayor of my city, and surely those who are here today and who have been will understand me. I take the opportunity to greet and welcome many mayors who are with us today; welcome here to the Congress of Deputies, this goes for you. [[Rumors]] Being mayor is a hard, demanding, sacrificed experience, but at the same time exciting, intense and rewarding...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u23	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u24	...of a great responsibility. Because it is the policy that is done with the neighbors, directly, in the street, in the neighborhoods, in their parties, but also and especially in the most complicated situations that can occur in a town or in a city, every day, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. I could certainly talk about nights that all the mayors at some point have gone without sleep for problems that affect their neighbors. Citizens, when they have any difficulty, do not come to the President-in-Office, to the President of their autonomous community or to the head of any council, or to the delegate, sub-delegate or sub-delegate of the Government, whether of a political nature, come to his mayor, his closest political representative, who is always asked for help and responsibility. That close and positive relationship must be taken care of and enhanced. The mayors of our cities and towns are fundamental pillars in our democratic system. I have made all this clear because I want us to be aware of the importance of the election of a mayor or a mayor for the citizens, which is not comparable - for them - with the election of any other political representative of other institutions, not a president of an autonomous community, not even the present of the Government. For citizens, for neighbours, their mayor, the election of their mayor, is the most important thing. Returning to my personal experience - I will be forgiven -, I was mayor in 2011 and again introduced myself to the mayor of my city in the municipal elections of 2015. My candidacy won the election again, but we couldn't rule despite having the highest number of councillors. A coalition of three parties, none of them the most voted list, was the one that formed the government and elected mayor, mayor who had not won the elections. And I can say that here, in this very House, some of my colleagues on my bench were in exactly the same situation. They signed a government pact that looked nothing like the programme with which the elected coalition had presented itself to the neighbours, an agreement that of course they could not endorse. As I said, these circumstances occurred in many municipalities in our country, in municipal governments in many cities the most voted list was not respected. Yes, I know, ladies and gentlemen, pacts to rule in the municipalities have always existed and have been good, better, worse, but, in general, it was respected that they were led by those who had won the elections. I myself ruled in minority by agreeing with other political forces on municipal issues. I was mayor as the most voted candidate and carried out the program that, mostly, my neighbors had chosen, and I can assure you that it was not a baladi matter. And like me, throughout our democracy hundreds of candidates who had won the elections were mayors of their municipalities thanks to government pacts with other political forces; they were pacts with the winner who respected the majority will of the citizens. In the same way, there have been coalitions of different parties that have presented themselves together to the elections and that have been elected by voters knowing in advance what their proposals and their candidate for mayor's office were. Transparency in the electoral process for citizens is thus guaranteed. I ask you to take into account the role that minorities would have to represent in this context; they can nuance an institutional scenario, but in no case replace or amend the will of citizens. Balances have to be resolved in the ballot boxes, not in the corridors. What has sometimes come to be called bisagra parties often hides the kidnapping of the popular will. This nineteenth-century concept of dispatch and composition makes no sense in the 21st century and in a society that has fully developed its democratic values. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, I ask you: Who has to be mayor? The one who decides the citizens or the one who decides the political parties? The one who wins or the one who loses? The one who's had the most votes or the one who's had the least votes? This is the debate, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, in that of my group and I would dare to say that in that of most Spaniards, the mayor of a city or town must be the one who has been chosen as preferred by the neighbours. If the elect is not the most voted, not even the second preferred by the neighbors, or has not been voted by one in six, as he has passed in some capital of Spanish province, that candidate is precisely to whom the citizens have not voted because they do not want him to be their mayor, and instead the leaders of the political parties or, at most, some assembly, with a minimum percentage of representation compared to the electoral body, have decided that he is. [[applause]] The last word about who your mayor is and about the electoral program that will be implemented by the voters should have it; the parties should never supplant the citizens. The choice of who is going to lead a municipality must meet the criteria of the best for its municipality, according to what the neighbors have said, and not be related to global pacts, as has happened, as when the changes of one institution are made by another, completely distorting the opinion of the citizens. Today, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I present to this plenary this proposal for a law amending the General Elections Act to amend the provisions relating to municipal elections. It is an open proposal and, although the text contains, as it cannot otherwise be, specific questions, it is a starting point for discussion in its handling. A proposal in which, for the sake of the search for the essential consensus to be reached, it takes a second round, as the Socialist Group had previously proposed when this debate had arisen. The People's Party has already carried this reform on its electoral agenda since 2003 and has made several attempts to reach agreements over these years, without success: already in 2008, in the subcommission that was formed to study the possible reforms of the Electoral Law; it was attempted in 2001, again, and in 2014, when, with an absolute majority of the PP, the Government of Mariano Rajoy offered to search, negotiate and find the best formula to get the most voted list to rule in municipal elections, and it seems that it was not the right time either. The People's Party Government has renounced its approval of a modification of these characteristics in isolation with its absolute majority, because we have always understood that this reform must be adopted with a consensus close to unanimity. This is not a question of the moment, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of will. If there is will, any time is right to carry it out, even by agreeing when it should come into force, and I say this for those who want to justify their negative vote in the seven months left for the municipal elections and who listen to the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Comparative law offers us several examples of reforms of electoral systems of these characteristics and it is shown that it does not depend on political ideology; they have also been carried out by left-wing parties, as has happened in Greece or Italy. This proposal contains a single article introducing a two-round electoral system with three possible scenarios. The first, when one of the candidatures obtains absolute majority and, therefore, is assigned the corresponding majority of councillors. The second scenario that can be given is that it is obtained by a simple majority with 35% of the valid votes cast and 5 percentage points more than the next one - this is not a minor question - or a simple majority with 30% of the valid votes cast and 10 percentage points more than the next one; nor is it simple. In either of these two cases I would automatically get the majority of councillors. In all of them, the rest of the councillors would be distributed among the remaining lists according to the results, in accordance with the procedure of section 163.1 of the Loreg, which we all know as the d'Hondt Act. The third scenario would be if none of the nominations met the above conditions. A new electoral process would then be held among candidates who had obtained at least 15% of the valid votes cast in the first round. With regard to this 15% threshold, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court had already had the opportunity to rule on the appropriateness of a 20% upper threshold in relation to an article of the Canary Islands Statute. The remaining councillors will be distributed as in previous cases and according to the results of the first round. Only eventually, if none of the candidatures were to meet these conditions would the councillors be divided according to the procedure of the current system, depending on the results of the first round. Ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to tell me whether these percentages of 30, 35 or 40% of the votes to reach the majority and be elected mayor are high, low, or not. It will have to be debated if this bill can be dealt with as requested, but I could tell you that, in any case, it would be a much higher percentage than any mayor who has had it with 7 or 8 % of the votes cast in any municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already outlined above, the objectives pursued by the proposed reform are: to facilitate the governability of the municipality, by providing the mayor with the majority support of the council, which will put him in an unbeatable position to develop the electoral programme with which he would have attended the elections; to contribute to the institutional stability of the municipality, since the vulnerability of the mayor to any motion of censure or abandonment of the municipal government by any of his partners will be significantly reduced. The proposed reform reinforces the popular legitimacy of the mayor, ensuring that the highest municipal responsibility falls on the top of the list of the most voted candidature. And the feeling of voters to participate actively in the election of the mayor is very important, which will undoubtedly help to promote the increase in participation rates in these electoral processes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote in favour of this bill, which we are presenting in order to discuss, negotiate and reach consensus. There has never been any intention to impose anything on this subject; but to open the debate and agree on what some of you have also proposed on other occasions and even carried on your electoral programmes. There is the inclusion of the second round - as I said - in the proposal for a law, a question raised by the Socialist Group. We can talk about all these issues, but let us address it once and for all. Don't tell us there's no time, that's not the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the general electoral reform in the subcommittee is being discussed. If there is will, there is time; and if there is no will, neither now nor ever will there be. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not party reform. I have heard some of you say that the PP presents it because it is afraid to lose some municipalities. For they are wrong; this reform can only frighten those who believe that they cannot obtain the majority support of voters, because this system benefits all candidates for mayors who are preferred by their neighbours, be they political formation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u25	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz, intervenes in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alonso, I would like to thank you for the initiative and the debate. We're not going to oppose it. We often talk about the need for changes in our institutional scaffolding and the need for reforms. I think this could be one of them very well. In fact, we often miss saying that the reforms that our country needs require very difficult constitutional changes to achieve, when the truth is that many of the modifications that could be useful to change and improve the problems that our rules of the game have could and can be corrected by reforms that do not require a constitutional change. As I say, this could be one of the cases. You are proposing a relevant change, which is still a new model. It is true that there is no perfect formula and therefore there is no single formula, although I believe that the one that is in force is not, sincerely, the main cause of the institutional crisis, also of representation and social participation and, in some way, of disaffection of Spanish citizens with politics, but it is true that there are other models, there are others, which also generate stability. This double-turn system and reinforced majorities have it countries of our environment. We therefore have no problem discussing it. The important thing is to maintain this equation between the fidelity of representation and stability, governability and legal certainty. Today we will hear many games say that Loreg is a pillar rule of the system, like others, but I think it is a rule that regulates the rules of the game. Therefore, beyond the fact that there is a party that drives this change, the truth and truth is that it would be very convenient - I think others will also say this - that in the end in achieving a model, in the existence of a model, there is a very broad consensus on it because, as I say, the electoral system does not cease to be a norm that sets the rules of the game. Therefore, on these parameters and to correct deviations that make the model inefficient and to ensure, as I say, a balance between representation and governability there should be, in some way, a social conviction of the utility of that model. With these limitations, we have no inconvenience in entering to debate, listening to the proposals of other groups and seeing the contributions that each one makes to improve the model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we say in my land Translated, more or less, means that you come to solve your problem, not that of Spanish society. [[continue your intervention in Valencian]] You are simply proposing that we disregard fundamental principles of our Constitution, which has designed a political system that has as its fundamental pillars participation, consensus-building, proportionality, rejection of presidentialism and, above all, the idea that elections are not a horse race, are simply a mechanism to see how best to represent the plural interests that exist in society. You have a problem because in 2011 the Spanish people gave you a huge share of municipal power and then, in 2015, you lost it. Of course, that bothers them, I understand it bothers them, but we, the whole state, should not be the pagans of this. If you want to make some demonstration of patriotism applied to the electoral system, bring us, for example, a reform proposal to eliminate the petitioned vote, that vote that leaves more than 2 million compatriots deprived of their rights to participate. [[Applauds]] Bring that but do not bring us this short cut which, as I say, is trying to liquidate basic principles of the Constitution, no longer just of the Loreg. Of course, there is a problem, the problem that you have and the problem that, perhaps, you will repeat in 2019. If you want to solve this, do not bring us these proposals which, moreover, bring them in a shameful way. In Article 180(4) of the proposal that you bring us what you tell us is that we are going to a second round but, if it goes wrong, nothing happens, we stay the same as we were. This isn't serious, either you play it or you don't play it. Of course, don't count on us for this. And one thing, if you want to win the elections, I give you some very simple advice: move on to corruption, clean up the electoral lists, abandon despotism in ways and ways, do not empty the municipal arks and perhaps in 2019 or 2038 you will vote again and have majorities. In the meantime, leave our representative system alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u29	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a new proposal, this is a proposal that Mr Bermúdez de Castro made in all detail and with this same literality in the 2011 electoral reform proposal, when we agreed that we would face the reform of the law in what was shared with other parliamentary groups, and that is not the case. Right now, we have the opportunity in this Congress of Deputies to propose a reform of the municipal electoral system in the field of the process of reforming the Loreg. Examining what arises always gives the opportunity to study comparative models from other countries, and comparative models from other countries, according to this graph recently published in a Spanish newspaper, clearly indicate that either there is a direct vote for the election of the mayor - model of Great Britain - or there is a second round directly raised - model of France and other countries - but not a second round alternative when 15%... That is, either there is a direct election of the mayor or there is a direct second round. [[shows a graph]] This simple majority formula plus bonus is only produced in Greece in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants and in Italy in municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we do not think it is a good proposal, that the municipalities must represent the proportionality and plurality of the will of the citizens and that, by the way, if this were - I say it on conditional terms - a proposal for a conjuncture, I believe that even this proposal would be for other times of bipartisanism at the municipal level. It is not time to try to do what is only an exception in Greece and Italy for small municipalities as a general model for the system of choice of our mayors. Moreover - and with this I conclude, Madam President - we should read in depth the ruling of the Constitutional Court that nullified a forecast of the 2011 reform of the Councillors of Transfugas, because what the Constitutional Court says in that ruling is that it is necessary to guarantee the vote and respect for each of the Councillors who make up the will and the election of the mayors. Therefore, either direct election of the mayor in a separate ballot or respect for the principle of proportionality. That is why we are going to vote against the adoption of this bill by the People's Group. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u32	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing a proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group which seeks to amend the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime with regard to the current electoral system for municipal elections, based on the principle of proportionality for the election of councillors in each constituency and to replace it with another which establishes a majority premium of councillors for the majority candidacy, i.e. the most voted without an absolute majority. In addition, it adds another change that the majority candidacy bonus to award councillors will not apply to coalitions, pacts or alliances that have not come under a single list to the electoral process. Thus, with this new model, when in one constituency one candidature obtains 30 or 35 % of the votes and in addition exceeds, respectively, by 5 or 10 percentage points to the next, half plus one of the councillors will be allocated and the remaining councillors will be allocated in proportion to their votes. And when there is no majority candidacy in the terms described, a second round will be held, now only among those who have exceeded 15% of the valid votes in the first round, with half plus one of the councillors being awarded to the one who exceeds 40% in the next round or is divided by at least 7 percentage points. And if there is no majority candidacy in these terms, the councillors will be attributed by the proportional system according to the result of the first round between the competitors to the same. We are therefore faced with a Copernican change in the electoral system for local elections and in which there is no exception regarding the competences of the intangible core of the zonality of the Basque historical territories, according to what the Constitutional Court stated in its judgment 76/1988 on article 37 of Gernika, which recognizes the competence of the historical territories over the municipal electoral regime. The reform is justified by the fact that the council is sought to be headed by the winner of the elections and at the same time its corporation has a representation equivalent to what the polls said, but this would only be true if the candidates for mayor were to run on a separate list to that of the candidates for councillors, as is the case in some country, and it has already been mentioned here. But our model is proportional and parliamentary to the extent that the mayor is elected by the councillors and not by the citizenry directly. And it is also not true that the corporation has a representation equivalent to what the polls said; yes, but before half of the councillors who are assigned to the most voted list and who will elect mayor without opposition by having an absolute majority. We are also told that this reform will ensure that municipal governments are supported by majority citizen support, improving their governance. We don't share it either. Today, governance is not compromised with the current system. The mayor is elected by an absolute majority; or if this does not occur, by whom he provides more support. And the budgets, after one year extended, can be approved with the sole support of the government team even if it is a minority, after the reform undertaken in the Law on Rationality and Sustainability of the Local Government. Nor do we share that we are told that this new model helps closer municipalities or that citizens' preferences are better aggregated. Can this be said when it is the coalition governments that are prevented that can bring about alternative majorities to others that involve less citizen support? Or is it that one mayor is closer than another that can attract more citizen support? Does it respect more the local plurality, which is more fragmented and rich than the state or autonomous system, an electoral system that does not allow post-election coalitions to face candidates with less support? Why are we told that the proposed model best satisfies citizens when it harms plurality and proportionality? Why does the People's Party consider the pacts to be bad? Why are they considered to be dark agreements that harm citizens, when what they do is quite the opposite, agglutinate them in governments through parties and candidatures avoiding social polarization? Why is political parties and their pacts demonized, when they express, according to article 6 of the Constitution, political pluralism, participation in the formation and manifestation of popular will and are also a fundamental instrument for political participation? Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group regards the pacts as the exercise of politics and the mono-coloured governments and with their support alone, a more likely exercise of their ideology; and in order to govern plural societies, we prefer the first to the second. That is why we do not like the proposal we are debating. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposed model of giving the list by a relative majority of councillors an absolute majority of councillors covers an electoral proposal which merely seeks to bias the system in favour of the proposer, as evidenced by the statement of reasons itself, through the cases cited and which are intended not to be repeated in the future. The solution when you don't have an absolute majority is not to change the model to get it, but to agree. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we do not share the proposal that we are debating for the time being, on the very short dates of the electoral process to which it would apply, or on the basis of the way in which it is to be presented, outside the subcommittee which examines the possible reforms of the Loreg, and without the precise previous consensus that in the almost twenty reforms which have been presented by the Loreg has always led to almost unanimity. Nor do we support it on the merits, as we have already explained, or on the electoral intention that encourages its promoter. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this most voted list has its own, and it is not that I am thinking of the primary process of its promoter, which too. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u33	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use this rostrum to acknowledge Amnesty International that today, when 365 days have passed since Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart are imprisoned, it has issued an alarm in the form of a complaint from the Spanish State that it is clear that civil rights have been violated and continue to be violated. Freedom, therefore, for political prisoners. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must thank the People's Party for its little effort not to be seen as a plumber. They seek to recover lost mayors, which is legitimate, but it is not so much so that they may pretend to do so by mortgageing the quality of the democratic system. They refer in the explanatory statement to Badalona - how Badalona hurts them! - where the left sent Mr Albiol to the opposition. By the way, now, almost overtaken the equator of the mandate, the People's Party made it possible for the new mayor to be socialist, that is, of the candidacy that he obtained only three councillors, which seems to me frankly a great contradiction, since they come here to defend what they come to defend and, instead, you in Badalona, for example, have made one person mayor - with all legitimacy, of course - who when he appeared before the citizenry he obtained three councillors. Therefore, the contradiction is so fat that maybe a little bit of modesty wouldn't go wrong. But it's still legitimate, you're in your perfect legitimacy. Gandía also hurts them, Gasteiz hurts them, Castelldefels hurts them and, as I said, Badalona hurts them; the two masks of the People's Party in Catalonia. In the two municipalities the People's Party promised them very happy and the left were told - also legitimately and democratically - to send the opposition. But now everything is very opportunistic because they intend to endorse this bill a few months from now - it has already been said - so that 35% of the votes can be obtained more than half or half plus one of the councillors, who can also obtain them the candidacy that receives a simple majority with 30% of the votes when this one exceeds in 10 points the candidacy placed in second position and, failing that, second round for the candidatures that have reached 15%. No, we reject this proposal as opportunistic, as I say, but not only because of that, but because it introduces elements and concepts of low democratic quality, which also remain - and this must be acknowledged by the People's Party because it does not hide, does not cheat - perfectly explicit in its explanatory statement. Look at them talking about loser mayors. From what petulance and from what prepotency can one speak of loser mayors? Are not citizens those who have sufficient popular support agree to be mayors? What moral and ethical category is this about talking about loser mayors? In addition, they speak of systematic, repeated and widespread displacement of the most voted option, as if this would lead to nullifying and perverting the popular will. I only repeat it and repeat that we must thank you for the sincerity and clarity with which you put your arguments, which is why you make it easy for us to vote against it because we understand that your initiative has a democratic quality. They talk about considering as anti-democratic the option of displacing the political party that is ruling in a local council or entity at a given time. Of course, it would only be necessary for the democratic movement of the political party that is ruling at a given moment! Then they even talk - and I quote textually - about falsifying the election result. So we are voting against not only because we believe it is an opportunistic initiative, but because, I repeat, it suffers from democratic quality. If you really want us to think about how and how it is possible to improve the system, because everything is better and everything must evolve towards more excellent democracy scenarios, we propose a series of measures. One, we can talk about how to modify closed and blocked lists and establish unlocked lists or other models; note that I say 'or other models' because we are aware that there is a range of possibilities. Two, let's abolish the deputies. We have been saying this for years, but if you do not want to abolish the deputies, at least why we do not raise the direct election of its members, why we do not propose - as has been fought here for years - the reduction of the voting age from eighteen to sixteen years, how political pluralism can also be guaranteed in the electoral campaign, etc., which is why there is a subcommittee that has been working for months. In short, the problem you have is that every time you govern you apply forms of governance so determined and so undemocratic that you then have difficulties. Yes, they have many and growing difficulties in having political relations and complicity with other political forces. In addition, there is something that we frankly denounce and denounce - and I conclude, Madam President - and that is that, at the greater critical capacity of citizens, the greater capacity of citizens to make ideological menus à la carte, even depending on the situation. Political pluralism is then synonymous with wealth, not only cultural but political wealth, which is why its position has nothing to do with the evolution of the political thinking of the new generations. We will therefore vote against it - I repeat - for ideological reasons and also to denounce its political opportunism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u35	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very striking that the People's Party, which has not wanted to reform fundamental issues for forty years, is bringing to plenary today a proposal to reform the Electoral Law; and it is even more striking if we take into account that there is already in this House a subcommittee responsible for studying and proposing a reform of the Electoral Law, a subcommittee to which, all to be said, the PP and the PSOE have joined with little enthusiasm and which they now intend to put into question with a very limited proposal on the voting of residents abroad. This little or no enthusiasm we understand that responds to a simple reason, and I will give you an example, a fact that explains very well that little interest. The People's Party cost each seat in the last elections 58,000 votes; the PSOE, 64,000; still some of them cost less, their PNV partners cost 53,000. Do you know how many votes Citizens needed for each seat? About 100,000. The reasons for this lack of interest in reforming the Electoral Law are therefore very clear. That is why I say that, given that the People's Party is so reluctant to reform, this proposal is surprising. But surprises end as soon as attention is paid to the content. The People's Party presents us with an initiative to ensure that in the municipal elections it governs the most voted list, or at least that's what they say in their explanatory statement. It is curious that you defend it today here, the same day we know you abandon that principle in Andalusia. Such seem to abandon all hope of victory in that community. [[Applauds]] Or perhaps it is that territorialization in your party and the lack of a national project also reaches the principles. And they do so on this fast track, trying to find a shortcut to the obvious electoral urgency, to the next call for local elections. This is a Guadian matter - the spokesman for the People's Group mentioned this - and he regularly leaves six months before the call for local elections, exactly with that almost mathematical precision. And they also do so with a series of filters, percentages and majorities absolutely still in their proposal, which are a real suit tailored to their interests. And the most serious thing, as I said, is that they ignore the subcommission in which we have been working this whole legislature, some with quite intense, some with not so much. And there are a number of proposals that we would like you to study with a great deal more interest, because I think they are shared not only by a large part of this House but - and this is the fundamental thing - by the vast majority of Spaniards: improving the proportionality of the system, unlocking the lists, ending the inequality caused by this impugned vote that expels almost 2 million of their ability to vote, agreeing to a joint electoral mailing, studying the possibilities of electronic voting, addressing issues such as, for example, that 3% electoral barrier that guarantees that this House is for what the Constitution that was created says: to represent national sovereignty and not other interests. And also improve the link between the elector and the elect, of course. Mechanisms such as the unlocking of electoral lists or, for example, the direct election of mayor, which we certainly do not reject and are willing to study, but which has very little to do with or virtually nothing to do with what you propose here today. On all these things we should be working on and we should try to find an agreement in the area of the subcommission for electoral reform, but unfortunately you fall apart with this partyist, unilateral initiative that forgets all these issues. Therefore, we are already telling you that we cannot support this initiative. If we place you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, as the main beneficiaries of this unjust electoral law, on that reform and working side by side on that just, equal and modernizing reform of our electoral system. It is a reform, I tell you, made from the beginning and with a basic objective that for Citizens it is absolutely essential: to guarantee the principle of equality in the value of the vote of all Spaniards, live where they live and vote for those who vote. For an electoral reform done from the beginning, you can count on us. For an electoral reform like that which you bring us here today, made from the pure partisan interest, do not count on us. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u37	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Ramos Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u38	Thank you, President. Let us vote no to this proposal for an organic law of the People's Parliamentary Group, as it could not be otherwise, because, once again, this group portrays itself as what it is, a centralist party and one who likes democracy very little. Of all the proposals that could be processed to improve the sovereignty and governability of the municipalities, you present the amendment to the Electoral Law to govern the most voted list. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, is this really what the municipalities are demanding? Is this what you think social demand is? I don't think so. The truth is that the municipalities are not demanding this, apart perhaps from some mayors of the PP who have lost their chair for mismanagement, for corruption, for implementing racist policies or simply because they have been legitimately removed from the mayorship by a political majority that in turn represents a social majority, which is what you do not say. The municipalities, ladies and gentlemen, what they are demanding is competence and funding. That's what they need and they ask the municipalities. But today the People's Parliamentary Group comes to us with this pataleta proposition, the gruesome proposition of the one who has lost power and does not know how to handle himself. You don't know how to be in opposition, you don't know why you believe institutions are your property rights and that's why you're showing your most undemocratic and grudgery face. Proof of this - as other groups have already said - is that when a reform is presented and sought that allows for a system as proportional as possible, you have always opposed it because you are the national party most benefited by this system. His way of understanding democracy is that if the rules do not serve me, the solution is to change the rules so that they will serve me again. That's how democratic you are. You, ladies and gentlemen, are not interested in democracy or the governability of the institutions, you are only interested in coming and remaining in power and every time you lose power, as this time with the motion of censure, you rise in anger and want to change the rules and, I repeat, not to improve the system and make it more participatory, but to remove legitimacy from the ways of reaching it democratically, because if you do not impose your vision of society, it is chaos for you, even if it is you who have been sowing social chaos for months. Let me tell you one thing: with this reform proposal, it is clear that you are still settled in the imaginary of bipartisanism, and it is a pity, it really is a pity that you have not understood the social and political changes that were born with the 15-M and that when Spanish society is clearly asking for pacts, you come here to say that it governs the most voted list, assuming that it can be you. This proposal is a reflection of what you are, the party that seeks to prevent minority voices from being represented, is the party that comes to create first-rate voters and second-rate voters because they are not worth the votes on the most voted lists like the others and is the party that seeks to prevent the control of political action by preventing those who misuse the system from being evicted from power. That is why, and not for anything else, you want to prevent the electoral pacts. For us, the legitimacy of governing is not based only on one vote every four years, but is renewed with people's confidence, transparency, compliance with the programs and control that make institutions both citizens and other political formations. Because it is obvious that you provoke conflict is given quite well, instead, to manage diversity causes many but many problems; if not, to ask Catalans and Catalans. That is why you are served by this electoral reform, because you are afraid of people and do not want to recognize that there is another social and political majority. They are afraid to face other realities other than their own and rule in a way other than the roller. It is enough to hear you and Citizens speak in this Congress in an incendiary language, lacking respect for political formations that represent, even if they do, many citizens. You like the roll and the command, and that is why for you the post-electoral pacts are pernicious and distort the popular will. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, my group has shown enormously that government agreements allow and achieve improvements. We have demonstrated this with the motion of censure, which bothers them so much, but which they should accept because it is not only a victory of parliamentary democracy, but of the people. We have demonstrated this through the negotiation of budgets that we have made with the Government, in which people have won again; and there they have won the municipalities, because thanks to this agreement they will be able to control the abusive prices of rents, to reflect in the budgets sustainable financial investments, to recover compensation for surplus value, to improve the replacement rate. It is being demonstrated and demonstrated every time that in a council with a post-electoral pact it is possible to implement social policies or remove the command stick from a corrupt mayor. His argument that fragmentation prevents governability and that the agreements go against the electorate is false. The sovereignty and governability of the municipalities are not achieved by absolute gifted majorities, as you claim; they are achieved by competition and funding. The governability of the municipalities is achieved by agreements, such as those we have negotiated. The problems that municipalities have do not come because of plurality or the need to reach agreements, come by the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, come by a rule of spending that prevents the reinvestment of surplus, come by the limitation of the staff replacement rate, come by the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration, which prevents remunicipation. Oh, surprise! All of this is thanks to you.Municipal governance and sovereignty is limited and put at risk when you centralize, when the governments of the autonomous communities do not assume their responsibilities, when the municipalities have to face up more and more to the needs of the people without adequate funding. They don't lie anymore, don't make us believe they're concerned about governability. What worries you is that there is democracy, a democracy that allows women such as Manuela Carmena and Ada Colau to reduce debt, increase social investment, change social policies and transform feminist policies in cities like Madrid and Barcelona. What worries you is that candidatures without media or economic power, without the support of the elites reach the municipalities and demonstrate that it is possible to manage transparently and thus win the majorities, working and demonstrating that it is possible to translate into facts the yes can be!, not imposing artificial majorities at the stroke of legislative changes. This bill shows that you have not understood that bipartisanism is dead and will not return. You must know that turnism is so particular, in which to rule is to win a few elections every so long and to devote themselves to stealing the rest, has already ceased to exist. To govern today is to carry out proposals, to add interests, to listen to citizens, to understand that plurality adds up and remains. To govern, ladies and gentlemen, is to make public policies for people and with people. That is to govern, and I fear, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that you have not understood. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u39	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative that we are discussing today is based on a correct premise: the right has a problem in the face of the forthcoming municipal elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we agree on the existence of this problem and I am sure that almost the whole House, if not everything, shares it and, nevertheless, we disagree in the diagnosis you are making and we question that the treatment you pose is the right one for you and of course for Spanish democracy. Let's make history. The year 2015 was a bad year for you electorally, you escaped much of your electorate, you went down in seats and lost a lot of mayors: Sevilla, Valladolid, Castellón, Oviedo, Madrid, Valencia, Móstoles and Huesca are just some of the localities where you saw how you lost and changed the command staff. Today, as then, we see to the right practice the ethics of other people's responsibility. Instead of putting the interests of citizens in the municipalities where they perform their work and defending the autonomy and capacity of municipalities to provide quality public services, we see how spokespersons, mayors and mayors defend and justify the cuts and antisocial policies that the People's Party has practiced for seven years and, instead of accepting that where they do not rule is due to the simple reason that citizens do not want them to rule, we see the People's Party blaming the rules of the game. Assume it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I know it bothers you, but where you don't rule is because citizens don't want you to rule. [[Applauds]] Today we are discussing an initiative that you are proposing to us and that does not seek to solve any problem of stability or of course of governability, and I will explain to you why. Loreg is a rule that guarantees stability at the municipal level, correctly translates votes and percentages into seats, ensures the existence and representation of a plurality of political options in our municipalities through the application of a proportional system and avoids the excessive fragmentation of the plenary by establishing a 5% entry barrier, by the way, above the 3% required to enter the distribution of seats in Congress. But our electoral law goes far beyond that. The Loreg says - the People's Party knows it - that to elect a mayor there are two ways: either an absolute majority is formed or, in the absence of an absolute majority, the head of the most voted list is chosen. But it is also that the Loreg comes further, because it says - the People's Party also knows it - that to censor a mayor an absolute majority is needed that is firm and that it votes that motion and that it does not prosper a question of trust as well. Where, then, is the instability that you denounce? I understand that situations like those you have experienced in Castellón, Valladolid or Madrid may bother you, but it is that you have several problems and I assure you that none of them have anything to do with the Electoral Law. Their problem is their inability to make self-criticism when their policies fail or their inability to make decisions when they are involved in cases of corruption. Their problem is their lack of interest in sitting at a table to dialogue, to agree, to give in, and also their heritage conception of power, which leads them to say barbarities as if a government where you are not is a government of losers. Please, it is not a stability problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is an attitude problem and a serious problem. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once we are clear that there is no problem of stability, we must address the other major concern that this initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group is about governance. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, going against governability is to attack local autonomy with Montoro law; going against governability is to prevent local governments from providing services by imposing unjust deficit targets on them; going against governability is ultimately to prevent the municipalities, which is the first administration a person looks at when they have a problem, from doing something to solve it, and going against governability is all that you have done during the seven years you have ruled, and I fear that everything you want to do now that you are deservedly in the opposition. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that our group is going to oppose this initiative, firstly because it is inopportune, because it seeks to unilaterally change the rules of the game when there are only a few months left to hold the municipal elections. This initiative is also inadequate because at a time when citizens want our electoral system to improve its quality and improve proportionality, you, the People's Parliamentary Group, are trying to limit it. And it is also demagogic, because they want to try to solve an internal problem, a problem of their own, blaming the electoral system and the voters. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the seats of the People's Party. The problem that you have is solved in a very simple way: you choose good candidates; when you have a case, be strong, be brave, take anti-corruption measures, present good programmes and above all look ahead and, as the President of the Government here in Congress rightly said last week: focus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on guaranteeing the freedom of families to choose the type of education and educational centre they want for their children. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Lorenzo Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I would also like to greet the representatives of the educational community who are present among us. I rise here today to submit to you and to defend and call for support for this non-law proposal that speaks of two fundamental rights, freedom and education, both in full balance and fundamental, as I said before, and I do so with conviction but I also do so with some emotion. I cannot forget that I am the son of two teachers and all my life I have shared table and table with the problems of education, with their real problems. Also, for twenty years, before I began my political life, I was a teacher. This year we are celebrating the forty years of the Constitution, and at this time we need to talk about these two fundamental rights, because there have been statements by members of the Government that have caused much surprise with regard to the educational pact, the pact in relation to article 27 of the Constitution; and I say why. We have already seen what happened with the educational pact that was being drawn up here in this Parliament, when after more than eighty-four appearances and many communications the Socialist Party, when the fifteen points were already fixed to discuss, decided to break that pact, decided to get up from that table when we had only talked about one point, we were only going for the second point. And he did it with a very bad justification, funding, and when we didn't even know the steps we were going to take. Today, seeing this from perspective, I realize that that was a justification or an apology of a bad payer; and I tell you why. Given the statements made later, the Socialist Party was not interested in the educational pact, it was interested in using this pact as a political contest, it was interested in using this pact, that non-agreement, to raise the street. As they said in some statements, we want to have a hot autumn, we want to go out on the street, as they did with other sensitive issues. Because the Socialist Party at the time was worth everything to get to Moncloa to take over power. That is why we are presenting this GNP. And I'm going to make it very clear, I'm going to say it as if it were a teacher, we're asking for respect, respect for the constitutionally recognized right of parents to choose the type of education they want for their children and the educational center they want for their children. This is the axiom of this non-law proposal, that respect for parents, because parents are really the main responsible for the education of their children, they have the obligation, they have the duty and they have the right to educate their children in freedom, and so that there is freedom they must be able to choose. I will make it very clear to you: our education system is based on two networks, on the public network and on the concerted network - we can also talk about the private network, but above all on the public network and on the concerted network - and the public authorities, as the Constitution says and as the Constitutional Court says, have to finance both networks and parents must choose between them whatever their children's education is. Today these rights are being undermined. I do not know whether it is because the Socialist Party has supported itself in reaching the government in different parties, but today talking about freedom and talking about choice is very difficult. As the other one says, democratic quality has fallen a lot in this Parliament. We therefore call for the guarantee of the educational freedoms enshrined in the Constitution through the harmonious development of the right to education and freedom of education. We also call for the social demand criterion of article 109 of the Lomce to be maintained. Why are you afraid of social demand? Why do you intend to remove social demand when it comes to programming teaching? What are they based on? Moreover, when you submitted the Lomce to the courts and appealed it to the Constitutional Court, you did not appeal this article 109. However, the first thing you have done when you come to power has been to pretend to remove Article 109, to pretend to remove the criterion of social demand, you, who say that you have to listen to the street, that you have to listen to people, that you have to talk to people, that you have to meet the needs of citizens. The first need for citizens is for their demands to be heard, for their demands to be heard. Therefore, this criterion should not be withdrawn from the law. We also call for respect for the network of concerted centres, which guarantee the existence of the plural and complementary offer provided for in the Constitution. We call for the promotion and respect of the organizational and pedagogical autonomy of the centres to develop their projects. We have seen in the Commission that there are many new educational projects that are in line with social reality, in line with the environment. Such organizational autonomy and pedagogical autonomy must be respected. We also call for the existence, quality and freeness of special centres to be guaranteed, both in the public and in the concerted. And, of course, you have to listen to the sectoral table of concerted teaching. When we tabled this motion you had not convened it yet, but now I know that you have already convened it. You have to talk to them, you have to listen to them, you have to know the work that is done in concerted education and, above all, as article 27 of the Constitution says, you have to listen to all the people involved in education, to all the educational sectors. I'm done. Today we come to talk about education and freedom. We are committed to an educational system built on three axes: the freedom of choice of families and pupils; equal opportunities for all citizens; equity, quality and excellence. Education, as you know, is the basis of everything. Without education there is no progress and without education there is no freedom, and this freedom that we talk about so much cannot be written with capital letters if parents are not allowed to freely choose the model of education they want for their children within the different educational options. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u44	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start at the end, announcing that my group is going to support this non-legislative proposal. Having said that, I would like to say that, when I read the text of the initiative, I wondered where all these good intentions had been in the last almost eight years, because it is surprising to remember that you were then the party of the Government. I don't know why they didn't write this letter to the Magi for the concerta when the education portfolio was one of their responsibilities. Of course, we are in favour of defending concerted education, which we, by the way, prefer to refer to as sustained education with public funds. And I say that we must defend it because I fear that the present Government is not too much for the task of doing so. We do, however, want to see a proper integration with the network of public ownership centres. Those are things you have to work on when you're in institutions, not leave them for when you're in opposition, but I'm afraid when you could fix things you abdicated your responsibility. [[Applauds]] It has been tolerated here for years to mock the rights of thousands of students from Catalonia, Balearic Islands or Valencia. A great deal of time has been spent containing the action of the High Inspection of the State. First, they deprived it of the means to function, to the point that, for example, for all of Catalonia there were only two inspectors, and then, when they finally requested a report to receive concrete data on indoctrination in the classroom, the report arrived and was kept in a drawer, I suppose, in order not to alter the mood of their possible nationalist partners. The report warned, for example, that mandatory content was ignored in textbooks. It must be said that having removed that report from the front came very well to Mrs Celaá, who came later; she had nothing more than to follow the path that had already been marked. That is true, it must be acknowledged that the current Minister of Education ran the curl and said that the report was not taught because it was not rigorous. I wonder how the inspectors who worked to draft this text feel. [[Applauds]] By the way, as you can always raise the bet, Mrs Celaá ended up saying in this House that you cannot take care of what the textbooks say because that would be censorship. Gentlemen of the PP, everything that happens in the next few years with education has been paid for by you. They have prepared the ground with a certain lewdness, with a lot of lewdness, and now they want to demand the protection of rights that they ignored from the other side of power, on the good side. We are concerned about the concerted action, but perhaps it would have been preferable to take this precaution when in the Community of Madrid a target was set up to collect bites for building concerted schools. That was the time to show concern. [[Applauds]] They also call for the urgent convening of the Bureau of the Conference. Man! I'm a little surprised, because you didn't call her in seven years, and here we ask about her three times. They are now in a hurry and point to the one in front, when the last few years have passed avoiding entering into some of the most serious problems that education has in our country. And you know why they didn't? For many times - I said it before - for not hurting the sensibilities of nationalists. to those who, in the background, have always seen as potential partners. They had an opportunity to do important things, and they didn't take advantage of it. In the months in which article 155 was in force, they did nothing to ensure that 25 per cent of school hours were completed in Spanish in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling. [[Applauds]] They did nothing to ensure compliance with the minimum requirements for the exercise of the teaching profession, which are a guarantee of the quality of education. They did nothing to prevent ideological persecution in educational institutions. They did nothing to prevent the exclusion and persecution of groups of constitutional students at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. Yesterday I read in El Mundo a report by Olga Sanmartin that overwhelmed anyone with a minimum of shame. It was a text about teachers pointed out not to be nationalists. One came to paint a swastika on the classboard because he is not a nationalist. Do you know what a professor at the University of Barcelona said? No one has said anything in these years; silence has hurt us. What about these teachers? Don't you have the right to be protected? I will make a letter here to question the Minister of Universities, Mr.Duque: Now this, Mr.Minister, is your business; now this is your negotiation. These people have the right to have someone from the government say something about what's happening to them, and it seems like you don't want to do it. [[Applauds]] They are waiting to hear some intervention from Mr Duque that says something other than that the Spanish university is going phenomenal and that all those fraudulent masters and dubious theses, approved by court of friends, are only isolated cases. What a coincidence!, 'isolated cases' was the same expression used by the PP when he was in government. I would like to know what the Duke of free university transparency that his group boycotted, showing that the PSOE prefers to protect plagiarism and corrupt people. Because, you know what? Doctorate with a thesis that maybe another has done is also corruption. By the way, today we have another proof of the PP's interest in this issue, which is very little: they have refused to support a Commission of Inquiry here in Congress to talk about Mr Sánchez's thesis. So, I don't understand the situation very well, unless there's no hose on between firemen. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Look, the other day, in Palma de Mallorca, I met a graduate in Philology who works in the hotel sector during the tourist season. You know what he does in winter? This lady gives special Spanish writing classes to Spanish children whose parents realize that they are going to finish school without knowing how to write in the official language of the State. There you have the isolated cases. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the State should not supply parents with their obligation and responsibility to educate their children. This is a temptation that many governments have and that they often fall into, but the state, ladies and gentlemen, has no children to educate. [[The Lord]] We are the parents who have the duty to educate and the right to choose how to do so and in what values within the Constitution and it is the children who have the right to be educated, obviously, in accordance with those values. When the State assumes rights or duties which do not correspond to it in this matter, it is called, ladies and gentlemen, to indoctrinate. I have read quietly the electoral program of the Socialist Party and Podemos and the truth is that I have not found education as a separate section, it is a sub-part. They don't give you much interest; well, I think it's good, I think it's better. It is always better not to worry that, as happens in Navarre, education becomes an obsession of those who govern - as the current president of the Government of Navarre has already announced in the debate of investiture - and they also intend to put their own obsessions with shoes on the curricula, be it the false mantra of linguistic victimism, the historical lie or social engineering projects based on gender ideology. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lorenzo, that we share the need to guarantee the freedom of choice of parents, the goodness of the dual system and the futility of all efforts to impose a single, uniform and exclusive model. That is why we will vote in favour. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u49	Thank you, President. Since I have only one minute, and although I had prepared a speech to justify the contrary vote, I will tell you that you have made me doubt, and that is a good virtue of the oratory. You have made me doubt because you have literally said that in order for there to be freedom we must be able to decide and, of course, you will understand that someone from Euskal Herria Bildu cannot dislike this when he hears it. [[Applauds]] But as I came from the People's Party I thought: here there may be some trap. And I thought, "Of course, in order to decide, you have to be free. And there I realized that the People's Party wasn't going to give me too many things; it doesn't do it with the Lomce - because I'm not going to get out of it - and it's not going to do it with bigger things. You have finished it and you have taken me out of doubt when you said that without education there is no freedom. It's true. His proposal is to follow a segregated model that allows the rich to choose where they want to study while the poor have to conform to the places they have left. You surely share the vision of the video that has become famous today in a religious school that says that the poor are mediocre people who do not risk it. You probably don't wonder why the percentages of immigrant people who study in public institutions far exceed those of the people who live in those neighborhoods themselves and, however, have banned access to the elite centres from which some political formations are nurtured. That is why we will vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u51	With this minute and a half that the president is going to give me, I'll make some telegrams. One. Mrs. Rivera, I am a teacher and I have been president of the APA, and I am not going to tell you what my children have suffered in order to have an education in the language that I had chosen as a father. [[Rumors]] And look what we've been through. Two. The People's Party and Citizens say that indicators of quality, efficiency and satisfaction must be included. I would like to include indicators that would indicate how many immigrant pupils are in public school and in concerted school, how many students with special needs are in public school and in concerted school, how many poor students are in public school and in concerted school. When you ask for the single district, it is so that a gentleman living on the outskirts can go to the school of the center, while the student living next to that school cannot access it. This initiative, with all due respect - because you know I like it - is a filling initiative that goes nowhere. So, of course, we are going to vote no. Another thing: Let's see when you ask, that you like it so much, that access to concerted schools is done as well as in public schools, that teachers can make oppositions as well and have the same rights in concerted schools as in public schools. Let's see when they ask. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u53	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin by saying that there is no need to take out the service sheet of my parliamentary group and my party as far as the concerted school is concerned, and I refer to the facts, but, Your Honor, your service sheet for the concerted school is a little different from ours. We in Catalonia have always tried to strike a balance between public and private schools; indeed, the concerted school played a very important role in the transition in Catalonia and, therefore, we continue to believe that we must defend and protect it. But you, where you govern - and the Community of Madrid is a good example - have used the concerted school for other things that are not as ethical or favoring education as we have done. Therefore, from the outset, his speech is unbelievable. That's why we look away at your initiative, and if, in addition, you incorporate concepts from the Lomce, the thing gets a little more complicated. That is why we want to tell you that we are looking at this initiative at a distance, not because there is no compromise on the part of our group with the agreed one, but because we do not believe in that model that you defend. Finally, if you want to do education a favor, be able to put Catalonia aside from that debate, because again Catalonia and Catalan should not be part of that debate. Try to resume that debate around an educational pact, which is what this country needs. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. We are waiting to know the consideration of Citizens' amendments to define our position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that sometimes the People's Group has fellow travellers who do what they do is very much distort any possibility of reaching an agreement. To begin with, Mr.Savior, you talk about obsessions, and you tell me, when you live permanently obsessed with the same thing in Navarre. All right, all right, all Also, do not fall into patheticism, which is what always happens. In any case, in the PNL presented by the People's Party there are a number of things that are unquestionable for obvious reasons. There is therefore no need to ratify issues that we maintain in principle, on which we believe and with which we fully agree. The truth is that I do not know whether it is necessary to make a non-legislative proposal to raise a number of issues that are already reflected, are already agreed and are accepted, at least in places like Euskadi. It is also true that some proposals are sometimes written, but after them there may be another set of objectives that are not exactly those that appear. Mr Lorenzo, you, in order to defend this GNP, have brought us back to the state pact. We too have risen from that pact of state, and we will continue to rise until the proper space that education has in Euskadi is guaranteed. As long as it is not reflected that we will respect the capacity we have to organize our educational system we will rise once, twice and every time we need. Therefore, in order to take this forward, I do not think it would be very positive to go back to issues which, for a number of other interests, you are interested in putting in front of the Socialist Party. As I said, we agree with one of the issues and others, of course, seem to us to be left. For us the issue of concertation has been something that we have never had any problem in recognizing, it is more, a network that in Euskadi works very well and society has totally assumed it. Within the concertation we have, let us say, two paths: the educational centers called social initiative, which in their day were the ikastolas, and the kristau eskola, or religious school, which coexist perfectly in the educational space of Euskadi. Therefore, we have nothing to object to and we usually say it more than once, the same as with health: that they have no tail or horns of concerted education or private health, that what they have to do is complement each other and that what can not be done is, in exchange for a defense of the concerted, forget about the public school. That cannot be done, because the public school is the basis and has to be the one that somehow marks that public service. Freedom of education, freedom of parents is a guarantee that I believe no one questions here. And there's also the funding. Now we have to see how we organize this allocation of public funds for concertation aid, because at the end of the day it is the service that must be guaranteed. The enemy of the public is neither private nor concerted, it is bad education, the bad education system. A concerted or private system with bad education is not worth me at all. Obviously, the public system that we want and that we must empower everyone must have those quality criteria before anything else. Freedom of education requires commitment. It cannot become a ghetto in which no one enters: we are private, so no one enters. No, no, no; it requires transparency, accountability and public criteria even if the initiative can be private. I'd have more to say, but I'm running out of time. I do want to say that there are a number of issues on this point that we agree on and another series that we do not agree on, because, moreover, they are approaches that do not belong to this House. The Basque educational system, for example, has its own competence to organize itself and to decide how this relationship between the public and the private should be carried out; how concertation should be carried out, how it should be agreed, with what criteria, with what ratios, with what financial capacity, etc. As I have to finish, I say to you, Mr Lorenzo, that as some issues seem good to us and others do not seem good to us, if you were willing to vote for points, we would consider the possibility. Otherwise, we will not vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u57	President, deputies, deputies, a preview. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Gentlemen of the PSOE: listen to Amnesty International. [[Applauds]] Pay attention to Amnesty International! I will begin my intervention with a strong statement: Let us return to education as a bold weapon among political forces. The idea of a pact is over. We return to previous situations and use it - I'm sorry - as hostage to a struggle that would not have to occur. Let's talk about education, because all families are concerned about the future of their children, everyone! In April they are looking for the school that best suits their circumstances, the one that offers them the educational environment they want, but there are many more that go to the center that they have closest to their home or to the one, public or concerted, that they assign to them as the most suitable. Look, maybe someone might think that these families don't value school or school work enough, but actually most would like to choose the center, of course they do!, with large open spaces, gardens and sports courts, classrooms with natural light, lots of teaching material, cutting-edge technology, resources, a great team of teachers who adapt to the diversity of students... I'm sure these families also want to enjoy a wide school schedule, with quality meals for all ages, even for teenagers. I'm sure everyone would choose an open training, with exits, with experiences, an enriching and complete learning, but this opportunity today in Spain is within the reach of a few. This is the hidden meaning of this GNP, because the PP, where it governs, decapitalizes the public school, does not give equal opportunities. Most families will hardly be able to choose without changes such as those we talked about in the educational pact and investments that make them possible. They are families who cannot access comprehensive education that includes extra-curricular activities, because they are worth money; they have no decent housing to continue to train children; they cannot devote the time they would want to the younger ones, drowned by their difficulties, many of them with their members in unemployment. I reaffirm the assertion with which I have started my intervention: all mothers and fathers want the best education for their children, but they cannot. And it is not a legal problem, but a problem of social exclusion. exclusion from which you, the People's Party, have done nothing - on the contrary - in the years you have ruled to overcome it. Today they choose centers that can allow them to do so and some concerted schools take advantage of them to segregate. The key is to remember that the right to education is not only universal, it must be of quality; that all schools must have the highest quality, the necessary resources, starting with the public, because equality of opportunity, equity, begins by guaranteeing positive and constant discrimination in the education of children, in the most needy neighbourhoods, in the most remote villages of the capital. This is the only way to start reversing the unstoppable growth of social inequality. Don't fool us, the problem is not to be able to choose school, the problem is to have the quality school that our boys and girls deserve. Today what we have to choose is more equity. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon the People's Party is presenting us with an initiative to expand the privileges of private schools and thereby shield their model of education, which is nothing other than a dual and segregating educational model. We are not very surprised by this initiative because it is what you were already doing when you were a government and cut $6.5 billion in public school, while increasing investment in concerted school. We have always been clear about their priorities and this GNP therefore does not contribute much more. However, the problem comes when you say that those who do not buy your exclusive educational proposal are against the Constitution and the right to education. We are already used to the People's Party presenting itself as the privileged interpreter of the Constitution and, in this case, of Article 27, but today we are not going to let it pass, because you have a simplistic, economicistic and quite interested interpretation of what the right to education means and because it was you, with your austerity policies and your exposure to the public, who have most violated the right to education of this country's children and youth. [[Applauds]] But today we are going to talk about concerted education, which according to the People's Party would be on the verge of disappearance. In this sense, we should start by recalling that the figure of the concert was justified in the beginning, when the Government of Felipe González gave it legal status, as a complement to a public school that did not reach the whole territory. Nevertheless, LODE defined its role as subsidiary, temporary and exceptional. Despite this, the financing of private educational options has been increasing year after year, to the point that we are already the third largest European country to subsidise private education, only surpassed by Belgium and Malta. The rest of the countries, such as France, Germany, Italy or Finland, have essentially public education and, in fact, according to data collected by Eurostat, the European average of schooling in public schools is 90%, while in this country it is 68%. This has not been random or inevitable, but the result of the various educational reforms that both the Socialist Party and the People's Party have been doing and that have given a blank letter to this progress in private education. Thus, for example, the LOE of the Socialist Party equated the role of the public school with that of the concerted school, considering them as complementary networks. This blurred the role of the public school as the common school vis-à-vis other private educational institutions with particular ideas and, why not say so, the majority in the hands of the Catholic Church. On the other hand, the Lomce of the People's Party has introduced the so-called social demand whereby the State has moved from being the planner of educational supply to having the obligation to agree on very particular educational options. This model is often justified by invoking the freedom of choice of families, a freedom that would be permanently threatened by public-state education. However, this is something that does not stand a rigorous analysis, because this freedom of choice, i.e. the freedom to create public centres and the right of families to bring their children there, also exists in countries such as France, Germany or Finland and in these countries, however, 30% of private and religious education is not subsidized. So we are not talking about a problem of freedom of choice, but about an ideological bet to promote certain particular educational options to the detriment of the public. You, therefore, do not defend freedom, you defend privilege and that is why you are progressively privatizing the education of everyone. [[Applauds]] Of course they don't do it by selling public schools, no, what they do is make public school conditions worse to force families to choose private choices. That blackmail is what you call the freedom of choice of families. [[Applauds]] The consequences of this educational model are also being very corrosive in terms of social cohesion. The OECD notes that the socio-economic segregation of pupils has increased fourteen points in our country, i.e. we have classrooms with fewer social mixes and some pupils going to one school or another depending on their social origin. Save the Children's latest report noted that 90% of vulnerable students, with problems, are concentrated in the public education network. Therefore, do not come to us with the right to education, what you defend, even if wrapped in grandiose words, is to consolidate a situation of inequality using the figure of the concert as a tool of classification and social distinction. From this confederal group, on the other hand, we believe that the responsibility of a democratic State lies, first of all, in having a powerful educational network that can compensate for social inequalities and ensure a common education for all, regardless of the family where it was born, and that - you know it too - is achieved only with a public, inclusive, plural and quality educational network. That is why today we are voting against the proposal of the People's Party, because we understand that you prefer a model of class education and segregation, but that the State does not have to pay for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lorenzo, you're wrong about the failed educational pact. I must remind you that you cannot break what was never created and what was never agreed. [[Applauds]] Mr Lorenzo, once again we are faced with the eternal and repeated debate on social demand, which is not about educational concerts, nor about textbooks or indoctrination. I believe that this debate marks a clear line of ideological and educational differences between you and us which has already led us to tense debates within the subcommittee of the non-agreement and also in the last appearances we have had in recent months. But it is that you do not seek a consensus precisely, but provocation and confrontation in educational matters and you have created a problem where there is no problem because there is no problem or risk with the concerted centres. They have been systematically tightening and tightening to expand rights, but without any obligation or counter-performance. And I believe, Mr Lorenzo, that what can be expected from a performance of accounts, and when it comes to the distribution of public funds, is that there is precisely some form of counter-performance, which we do not see either in this proposal for a law. What I do say is that we have been very surprised in this last PNL that you bring, since you, who are so immobile with the Constitution that you do not want to reform it at all, surprise us today, because it seems that you want to open the Constitution and reform article 27 - that alone -, of course, to make an interpretation of what freedom of education has to be, but I think that there would be a lot to talk about, and also about what that freedom of education should involve. In relation to the decalogue of proposals that bring us here, which I would call the decalogue of social demand, in its article 109.2 of the Lomce, I must clarify that the right to freedom of choice of parents cannot entail an obligation to conclude units, this is not a constitutional right, it is a concession that the legislation may or may not regulate. In other words, what they intend to present as the right to choose a centre on the part of families is based on decisions of educational planning; therefore, a right that could at the same time be violated by another, which is that of the educational administrations to be planned, cannot be guaranteed. Your Honor, public and concerted education networks must work in a complementary and integrated way to achieve the general objectives of the education system, and it is the public authorities that must ensure that the right to education is fulfilled with its planning and a clear definition of the school map. For us, Your Honor, it is logical and reasonable for the public authorities to prioritise the public school as the heritage of all and as the backbone of the education system, something that happens - as you have already said - throughout Europe, and something that you, for example, do not practice, as we are seeing, in the same Community of Madrid, where the right of parents to choose a public square is no longer guaranteed because public education has become precisely a subsidiary of concerted education, and that cannot be the case, ladies and gentlemen. And we don't understand why they mix special education into a conceptual debate. Special education is fully guaranteed and has our full support, as you have always said, but using special education to reconnect freedom of choice with social demand is very ugly, Mr Lorenzo, very ugly. Finally, let them come now to call for the convening of the sectoral concert table and the revision of the financing of concerts after seven years of being in this government, something about which they have not moved a finger and have never convened that sectoral table, I think it is the height of cynicism, gentlemen of the People's Party, that is all right. [[Applauds]] But they are late, because precisely this government has already been meeting with the agreed sectoral table last week and in a tone that has nothing to do with the content of this GNP. On the unique areas of schooling, what you really claim - and have also been told - is the power of the concerted to choose student, it seems that you want to shield a more selective and classy school under the idea that families make the demand when it is precisely you who are inducing that demand. They want to expand rights but without obligations, which involves the balanced schooling of pupils with special educational needs, of immigrants, without discrimination, which also includes discrimination and differentiated education, to assume regulations for admission of students that avoid a double network configuration that allows for such segregation and the proliferation of ghetto centres. We have no fear of Article 109.2 of the Lomce, you have generated an induced demand that has broken the consensus of almost forty years, you have created a market with education and at the expense of families, the consequences are that public education has lost a point in the percentage of schooling, while it has gained it from concerted education, and that means loss of educational units, loss of jobs and more public funding for private companies, that is the reality, Mr Lorenzo. [[Applauds]] In short, we do not support his GNP for all these reasons. For us, both public and private, they can and must cooperate for the public service of education, to guarantee the constitutional right to education, but at the same time guaranteeing the priority character of a public school with equity and quality, which Article 109.2 seriously endangers. Finally, how unliberal are you when you do not think about social demand for rural school or for those poorer neighbourhoods in which the concerted school has no intention of establishing itself, they certainly cannot choose, Mr Lorenzo. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Lorenzo Torres whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u63	We're negotiating.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u64	All right, we'll take it into account for the vote. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the creation of a public banking centre. [[File number 162/000548]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u65	We turn to the following item on the agenda: No legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the creation of a public banking pole. Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. The music's playing, the music's stopping, the music's stopped... They'll remember that this is an important scene from a movie about Lehman Brothers' fall. I think his name was Margin Call and he explained very clearly the prolegomens of Lehman Brothers' fall. The music was important because the boss, the boss, told a subordinate that he wasn't there to know about banking, that he didn't know how Warren Buffet what a derivative is, that he was there because he knew how to listen to the music and realized that the music was stopping and that something had to be done. That is very important today because again music is stopping and again threats of crisis arrive and again it is being said that a general recession will soon arrive. The question is: After ten years, a month and a day of Lehman Brothers' fall, are we going to repeat the same crisis that took us to ten years, a month and a day of suffering? Ten years, a month and a day as a condemnation of a gigantic accumulation of dispossession? Are we going to continue on that? Because that's what this is about now. What is behind all this that I have just indicated? A monster that escapes our hands and tends to control us and leads us to recurring crises that create social suffering and that nobody, nobody, is able to control today. And who is that monster? This monster is identified, everyone knows it, is a fundamental change that has taken place in the last twenty years of the world's history and economy: the emergence of an immense power that has changed economic power and tends to control us as financial capital. A monster, a giant rain that controls us and periodically leads us to social suffering. And we all know where we come from, enormous social sufferings such as inequality, the enormous growth of the power of a minority, of a financial oligarchy, the control of this one over the state and a gigantic devaluation of our democracy and the powerlessness of the sovereign, a sovereign who is in worse and worse living conditions and who, however, does not serve him for nothing to vote because he has to vote yes or yes what this dictatorship of financial capital says. Does anyone think populism is not served with all that? Does anyone think that with all that there will be no social demand for security, in order against the growing fear of the population? That is why we are bringing here today a demand, which is to democratize economic power. I say this as the great magistrate Louis Brandeis said: Either we put an end to the trust of money or the trust of money will put an end to our democracy and our freedoms. [[Applauds]] That is the challenge, that is the moment we have here today, to put an end to that omnimod power of a minority that controls our lives and ruins our future. From that perspective, what do we propose? We are proposing a public bank, a bank with the capacity to intervene in the market, to be part of it, but to carry out tasks that the market is not able to do. Our vision is that of Mazzucate: an entrepreneurial state. We want an entrepreneurial State, a State that is able to intervene in the economy and that is able to regulate it, organize it and be able to build a future for the new generations. Mazzucate said it very well: a public bank capable of intervening. But there is one important thing; if I had to say what is today the most important task our country has, it would be to change the productive model. Does anyone think that with this bank and with these banking operators who spend most of their time in speculation and playing in front of us there will be industrialization in Spain? Does anyone think that we will be able to change the productive model with this financial capital, which is the one that must finance - anyone believes it? - if not with the activity of a public bank that changes the productive model, that organizes innovation, that socializes it with small and medium-sized enterprises and that territorially boosts the country's future? That is our goal with this law: the capacity of the State, of organized society and of democracy to organize their future. The President of the People's Party is going to Brussels on Wednesday, and is going to denounce the pact between União Podemos and the government of the nation, but that pact that the President of the People's Party is going to denounce has cost less than one tenth of what this country has devoted to saving private banking. Less than the tenth part! Are we going to socialize the losses again and when the crisis comes we are going to continue to say that the blame lies with the populations, because we have lived above our possibilities? [[Applauds]] No, the key isn't there. It is necessary to decide who decides, whether the banking or the organized population in democracy; in the middle there is no longer any room left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Monereo. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an initiative by Uniti Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the creation of a public banking centre in Spain, an initiative already discussed at other times in plenary and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the last time in May this year. They continue to make statements that, at least, are inaccurate, and come to a priori, preconceived conclusions, with no rigorous basis to support them. Today we have corroborated it in the intervention of the spokesman of Unidos Podemos, an alarmist, tremendist intervention, I would say tremendous, with a lot of character, a lot of passion, but tremendous. He's drawn us a horror movie, with monsters, and I'd say with a lot of scenery and ideological exaggeration. They continue to say that there is no public banking in Spain, and that is not true. In Spain there is public banking. They will find it scarce, improveable, expandable or defendable, but it exists and is articulated around two entities, the ICO as an investment bank and Bankia, participated by the FROB, that is, by the State, and in a process of disinvestment. What does not actually exist is a network of savings boxes as in Germany, but precisely because of the bankruptcy of the savings box model existing in Spain, which were certainly not public entities, as a result of the financial crisis, a brutal crisis that affected Spain with special virulence due to the vulnerability of the Spanish financial system, which had a very high concentration of risks in the promoter and mortgage sector, fuelled by the real estate bubble, to which the second recession of 2011 gave the pointella and which ended the system of savings boxes Spanish, except two very small ones of local activity, and also affected the private bank, as has been proven by the resolution of the People's Bank or by the nationalization of private banks at international level, except Lehman Brothers, as the spokesman recalled, which fell and was the origin of the crisis. Nor is it true what they say in their initiative that the savings banks have been acquired by the bank through absorptions and purchases and with the help of public money, it is not true. It is true that there have been broken boxes acquired by private banks, but what has happened is that a very important part in terms of assets, liabilities and the financial business of the old, the best, of those that did good or even excellent management, have changed legally from boxes to banks and, although there are significant differences between them, they continue to devote part of their profits to social work through the ordinary, special or banking foundations, which continue to be shareholders. The role of foundations could also be the subject of analysis and evaluation in the event of regulatory changes. They continue to use the World Bank report in a partial and biased manner in their non-legislative proposal. We share his reflection on the high cost of the crisis paid by all Spaniards and the falsehood of some statements by members of the former PP government because it cost more than €60 billion that the Banco de España estimated irrecoverable in June 2017. We are also concerned about the banking concentration, which, although not excessive according to the rates used, may become so in some geographical areas of the State, and that is why we must be vigilant. And we share the obligation of the public authorities to recover as much as possible from the cost of rescuing the financial system and to put in place measures to prevent the recurrence of that crisis or at least not with that virulence. But with all that we share we do not understand, beyond the alarmist discourse that has made us the spokesman of Podemos, how they come to the conclusion that the solution to the problems of the Spanish financial system and to the change of the productive model of our economy is a public bank of investment and deposits around the banking project resulting from the merger Bankia-BMN and ICO. It seems to us to be a very low conclusion, and more so because of the tremendous arguments we have heard before. It is good to learn the lessons of the past and not to insist on policies that have led us to failure. Bankia must be strengthened, not weakened, neither with hasty sales nor with messages that harm the action, nor with ideological approaches that would lead it back to a financial situation of weakness. The fundamental question, therefore, is not so much the creation of a banking public pole, which already exists, but how we optimize its effectiveness and efficiency, analyse whether there are or may be market failures and answer them and define which model of financial system can be the most suitable for the economic development of this country. We believe that this debate is substantial. But this debate needs to be approached rigorously, and in that sense we should also analyse what the public credit sector needs with a prior analysis of entities and lines of credit for further rationalization and seek a specialization to maximize efficiency. Finally, President, the Socialist Group has tabled an amendment calling on the Government to increase ICO's resources as a public investment bank, to analyse possible market failures in the Spanish financial system and to introduce measures to prevent the financial exclusion of individuals or groups with difficulties in accessing credit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Lasarte. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u70	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more week I remind you from this rostrum that we have ex-advisors and the expression of the Generalitat in exile and two socially committed people, such as Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, in pretrial detention in an absolutely unfair manner. Today, Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart have been in prison for crimes that are not recognized in the rest of Europe. [[The Vice-President, Navarro Garzón, took the Chair.]] Having said that, we are not going to support you in this proposal, even I am telling you that we are going to vote no, because beyond sharing part of the diagnosis, which is essentially the high cost for the public coffers of the previous financial crisis, we do not share the rest of the diagnosis or the solutions, I can honestly say. We understand that what you propose in relation to Bankia is not going to guarantee a greater recovery of this cost for the public coffers, and the approach you make of that banking pole by creating a deposit bank and a public investment bank, nor do we share it as you establish it. In fact, I was going to tell you that if you were to negotiate with the Socialist Group the amendment that you had tabled, perhaps we could vote in favour, but I have heard the speeches of both of you and it has already become clear to me that there will be no compromise. We would be much more comfortable with the Socialist Group's amendment. Really, I understand the speech for your audience - of course, everyone here speaks for your audience - but to say that with the proposal that you are making you will democratize financial power, as arenga looks good, but the truth is that it does not correspond to reality. [[The lady]] You say that this proposal will serve and is necessary to change the productive model. Man, we share that the productive model must be changed, but I assure you that the productive model can be changed with many other measures, not just this one. In itself, this does not guarantee any of the objectives you set. They say it will serve to finance public projects, but public projects today are already guaranteed their financing, the problem is another, the ability of the administrations to repay it, the restrictions on access to credit even if it comes from a private entity. In short, we are not going to support them. We understand that it does not meet any of these objectives. As has already been said, there is a public bank, essentially the ICO, which from our point of view can be improved. In Catalonia we also have a very improved approach and if we had the capacity, the competences and the non-interference, I assure you that the Government of the Generalitat would do so, but with regard to what is strictly the proposal that we have on the table today, we will vote no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u72	Thank you, President. Today we again discuss the initiative proposed by the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the creation of a public banking pole, I say again because it is a PNL that is practically similar to the one discussed on 14 February 2017. In that it was urged to create a public banking pole on the basis of BFA-Bankia and Mare Nostrum and now it is only on the basis of BFA-Bankia. We do not, of course, believe that it will democratise financial power, nor that it will change the productive model. In Spain, as some have already said, there is already public banking, the ICO is a public investment bank, we have the Fonpyme to finance investments abroad, also the European Investment Bank, even the Feder funds. Our group is true that it validated Royal Decree 4/2016, on urgent financial measures, considering that, according to market forecasts, it was prudent to extend the deadlines to make a correct sale of the assets derived from the bank restructuring and maximize the profit that could be obtained without going into discussion about the banking union or the reason for the creation of instruments such as the Sareb and the FROB. The aim should be to ensure that the public loss was as small as possible and to ensure and maximise the recovery of public aid granted in the process of restructuring the banking system. The global financial crisis highlighted a number of regulatory weaknesses, among which we can highlight the high leverage of banks or excessive credit growth, which has led to reforms driven from Europe. We must also be aware that a credit institution, taking the form it takes, would be criminally affected by requirements issued by international bodies within the framework known as Basel III. This affects all the assets of an entity, solvency, suitability, liquidity and risk management. We therefore believe that a more thorough analysis should be carried out if a public fund financial instrument is to be recovered, which, of course, has not been an example of anything in Spain, since they have been more concerned about the financing of certain operations than about their solvency. It is true that the Spanish State had savings banks, the closest to what a public bank can be, but the banks we knew carried out deposit and loan operations in a manner similar to the banks, acting on competition criteria. However, a significant part of their benefits were reinvested in society through their social work. In Euskadi, the social work included the award of scholarships, the recovery of historical heritage or sponsorship of exhibitions, so that, in addition to their financial role, they carried out charitable-social work; they were therefore specialized in channelling popular savings and financing families and small and medium-sized enterprises with a wide network of offices at the local level. However, the experience of the Spanish savings banks - here we make the exception of the Basque banks - was characterized as completely politicized and very poorly managed institutions. They were at the forefront of the granting of mortgage credit and promoter during the brick boom under very lax and uneconomic conditions. The managers of the cashiers allocated generous funds and assumed too many risks in operations that we can call more than dubious. Savings boxes, with some exceptions, remind us of corrupt systems, from which we have tried so long to escape. If we understand public banking as public-owned banking there has been and exists in Spain, Europe and the United States, but obviously in the Spanish state its behaviour has not prevented the crisis. You also mention that, with the creation of a banking hub, you want to prioritise financing public infrastructure and equipment projects, long-term business projects within a coherent industrial policy that favours SMEs. We agree, but, in our view, it must be done from different levels of government. We believe it is essential to have an appropriate industrial policy that directs SMEs towards advanced strategies and improves their competitiveness, but it seems risky to use a public banking pole as an economic policy instrument without having carried out an analysis of market prospects or legal possibilities, budgetary capacity, among others. At the time when other people's resources are handled, they must be very cautious, rigorous and prudent when granting credit, so that the risk analysis must preside over this concession, in addition to having specialized professionals for this purpose. A bank that does not seek profitability and solvency may soon have a huge hole. A bank, also a public bank, must, of course, look for that profitability and solvency. Moreover, as I have already mentioned, the creation of any public instrument should be subject to European public aid constraints and subject to the criterion of private investor in a market economy; that is, that when granting financing or capital for a private project you cannot do so at a loss, the recovery of investment should be considered as would be done by a private investor, so having a public bank would also limit this granting of financing. More than by a public bank or public bank polo for what needs to be advocated is by public investment plans from the institutions to create an industry capable of supporting the welfare state. A competitive industry is fundamental to the generation of wealth, employment and well-being and, above all - as the proponent has also said - to change the productive model. Also in your initiative you mention the World Bank report to justify a public bank, but what is obvious is that in that same report, despite saying that public banking can have a positive cyclical effect, in the medium and long term it can have negative effects, and if we see public banking as a development bank, it must have a subsidiary role. Finally, German public banking also sets us an example, but what they do not tell us is that these boxes have embarked on risky international and investment banking operations that have also, of course, left a high bill. For all that said, of course, we will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u73	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u74	Good afternoon, Madam President, with your permission. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. As in the case of many comrades, my first words are in protest at the unjust situation suffered by Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart in pre-trial detention for just a year for crimes they have not only committed, but in civilized countries they do not exist. [[applause]] [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Mr. Lasarte, you're going to allow me a little 'kit kat', which harms the real action is to extract funds from mansalva in one night for political purposes, which does harm the action for free. [[Applauds]] The proposal for a law that we are debating here today on the creation of a public banking pole has a strong ideological but also practical component. First of all, I would like to mention that in February of last year we had the opportunity to discuss a practically identical GNP, also presented by the Parliamentary Group of United Podemos and that it was finally not approved, although on that occasion we recall that it did collect the PSOE's favourable votes. We are waiting and we have already seen their reaction, their action, now that they are in the government. For our part, Esquerra Republicana, who has not moved from the opposition, has always shown a favorable position regarding the creation of a public bank, is in the only thing that coincides with Mr Bel; it is a claim that comes from a long time in Catalonia and that it has not yet been possible to materialize due to the obstacles imposed by a centralizing State, which despises all that it ignores and which does not allow us to do so. We continue to demand that the Institut Català de Finances have the legal status of bank and that it can offer a financial service as society really needs, because we believe in the need to be able to have a public bank that aims to serve public interests rather than focussing on optimizing private profits; that it has as a priority to promote the productive economy of the country, that it grants loans to SMEs and families so that they can develop their projects and finance housing and social rent, as already happens in France - of the other abundant supply on the market - and not only in France, Italy or strict Germany, where the public bank has a market share of approximately 24 %; or even in the neoliberal paradigm of the United States, the State of North Dakota also has its public bank. We're not talking about hypothetical cases. There is a public bank that in other countries operates and the demonisation by the factual powers of this country, such as the media, is another sign of the power of influence that this sector should have in the Kingdom of Spain. Therefore, and although, Mr Monereo may not be the panacea, we understand that it is a desirable option in line with our genetics, with our values, always alongside people rather than capital, alongside the productive economy rather than the speculative economy. Of course, let it be a bank that allows all the social policies we want to be pursued. We are in favour of its creation given the evidence that the current private bank has not responded to these needs. And of the banking with social commitment, of the savings boxes with soul and with social work, there is no longer more than the spectrum of foundations with the mask of CSR, of corporate social responsibility. I have only half a minute left and I have eaten half a speech, that is to say I have to end by saying that our vote will be affirmative because we say yes to a public bank to finance social housing, yes to a public bank to finance the energy transition, yes to a public bank to improve housing energy efficiency, to give financial mattresses to so many circular economy projects, to so many cooperative projects, to so many reintegration projects that are so often stranded in the very secure ports of the risk departments of oligopoly banks. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u75	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u76	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, they say that man is the only animal that stumbles twice upon the same stone, but that is that you want to throw your head against the stone, gentlemen of Podemos. [[Applauds]] But have you learned absolutely nothing from what has happened in this country in the last twenty years? It is extraordinary, it is really extraordinary the surrealist speech that we have heard in the presentation of this GNP. I'm still a little in shock. Ladies and gentlemen, you brought an initiative that was almost the same as this plenary a year and a half ago and was rejected, with the support of the PSOE of course. Then, a few months ago, they brought a very similar initiative to the Commission, which was also rejected, and now they are proposing to create a public banking hub that would be a deposit and investment bank to finance infrastructure, public equipment and long-term business projects. But what do you want? Other empty airports, another series of pharaonic sculptures, gentlemen with busts in town halls? What else do you want to do? White elephants all over Spain again? Do you want to finish ruining the poor Spaniards who have not yet been ruined? [[Applauds]] But what economic model is this? Basically, I understand that they take the box model as a reference, which is what we have had in this country and which has been what has led to all the cuts we have had over the last decade. Let me make it clear, there is not a single public euro dedicated to rescuing banks, it is all for rescuing ultra-politized and colonized savings banks by gentlemen like you, who took finance as a political game. [[Applauds]] It was a perfect game, you - in that case Socialist Party and People's Party - colonized the savings boxes to distribute politicized credits to friendly promoters who later returned, closing the circle, in millionaire bites to feed the parties. [[Applauds]] That is the system that almost ruins Spain and brings about the progress of decades in this country, and they want to return to that system. I don't know exactly where to start. [[Rumors]] The excesses of the boom have been paid very dearly. It is important that in the boards of directors, both of the savings banks and of the companies and of the banks, there are competent people. If you put politicians it goes like it did with the savings boxes. We have endless lists of lords of the Socialist Party, of the People's Party, of the United Left - founders of the Communist Party who were sitting on the boards of directors of the boxes - trade unions, lords of the employers, all of them. Do you know what common denominator they all had? That they had no idea of finance and that they could not do the work they had to do, because what a board of directors has to do is advise on the risks that exist in the balance sheet, tell a Mr. President that he is wrong, that he is taking excessive risks in the balance sheet and excessive exposure to real estate credit. [[applause]] That's exactly what they didn't do and that's why they broke, and you want to do exactly the same thing again. Therefore, we do not want any more cousins, more brother-in-law, more dancers, more unionists, more plugged in by the lords of the political parties, we want a bank that works, that is competitive, that lends. Now the guys are among the lowest in the world, gentlemen, what do you want to do? Put your friends in? Some may have been eager to have those fantastic rewards that the boards of directors had and that's why they want to have a public bank, you, who didn't have a chance, well, some yes, those of the United Left, but some of We Can, no. Is that what you want, sitting on a board of directors to see if you get the black cards, just like the old ones? [[Applauds]] In short, we have debated this a lot, we have just done for many months a serious work, with experts, analyzing the problems that this country had, with a very clear conclusion and choice: we do not want politicians managing credit in this country. We don't want them! He just wants them. We can't. Let's see if you find out at once and stop bringing the same thing into this House to ruin the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u77	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Aguirre Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that seeks to re-establish public banking in order to direct the credit system towards what they call a social mission and a new spirit of public service. You are based on two reasons for making this proposal: firstly, that public aid has been very high and you suspect that it will not be possible to return it and, secondly, that there has been an overconcentration of only four operators and that this prevents the flow of credit normally. I believe that, as the recent experience of the financial crisis between 2009 and 2012 shows, there are conclusions that we should bear in mind. The bailout that has taken place in the financial sector has been directed to savings banks rather than to private banks. That ransom has always fallen on the taxpayer, it has fallen on the employment factor. The restructuring resulting from this rescue has been necessitated by poor governance practice and a risk policy that is not linked to economic profitability. This rescue or restructuring has been due to over-indebtedness; public banks, savings banks, were twice as indebted as the private financial sector. This rescue has occurred because the credit policy of the public bank, and specifically of the savings banks, exceeded its mission of domestic banking, of banking to families, of banking to SMEs. The incursion of the boxes into sectors where they had no experience, in sectors with a great deal of insufficiency and in sectors which had already been debilitated, why not say so, in political projects, was what caused the situation of that intervention. It is true that the aid has been very voluminous and to crystallize the threat that it will not be returned, in addition to voluminous, it will be a scandal. But let me ask you a question. The strategy that was decided was correct and correct; and I say correct and correct because it achieved its objectives: to save the financial system and to save depositors. That's why the strategy was right and correct. You say that restructuring has resulted in a process of perverse concentration that prevents the flow of credit to families and SMEs. I don't share it. I think it's a mistake to try to compare credit to families and pre-crisis SMEs to current credit to families and SMEs. It is an error to compare the pre-crisis interest rate framework to the current credit framework, and it is an error to try to compare the regulatory framework. Today, capital requirements for banking are precisely the element that is limiting credit policy. I insist, I do not believe that concentration is at present the limiting element of credit. And I'm going to tell you more. If we really make a public banking pole, that public banking pole is going to be forced on the following issues: owning shareholders and not political institutions; having depoliticised professionals as government bodies; having a regulatory framework identical to that currently held by the private sector; having the same requirements as the private sector has for capital, cash and credit ratios; and having the same criteria of indebtedness, limited, so as not to produce redundancies again. Risk policies must also be linked to political profitability and never to decisions of a Council of Ministers, as you point out in your proposal. I'm done, Madam President. I believe that the incursion made by the savings banks into sectors that had no experience, in sectors that had already presented great weaknesses such as real estate, was precisely one of the reasons for the financial sector crisis and - why not say so? - also the improper or reckless behavior of the supervisor. Therefore, the savings boxes, which were understood to be part of the solution to the problem, became literally the problem. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u79	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Monereo Pérez whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u80	I have not been convinced, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u82	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the motions following an inquiry. First of all, we are going to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the investment policy which the Government intends to promote in Catalonia. [[Mr. Campuzano]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u83	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, you have at your disposal the motion that follows an inquiry that we put forward in the spirit that it can be adopted, we do not want to be maximalists and we understand that perhaps there is room for agreement as well. There is an amendment that we are currently trying to compromise, but I do not deceive you, there are some points of friction that are making the agreement difficult. In any case, if we traded it, we'd get it to you throughout the session. Having said that, what does the motion raise as a result of questioning? It is important that the El Prat airport and the airports of Catalonia can be managed from Catalonia with the participation of the Generalitat and with the participation of its economic and social agents. The approach we take is open, because we understand the difficulties that were added when part of AENA was privatized. The only thing we ask is for management to fit in from the Generalitat de Catalunya. It is important that El Prat airport and those of Girona and Reus can establish their own strategies, their own rates, their priorities and their agreements with some companies individually. Another important aspect of the motion resulting from an inquiry is that the State fulfils the investment deficits in relation to the State's commitments. I thanked the minister at last week's session that he acknowledged - yesterday he did it again in Barcelona - the infrastructure investment deficits in Catalonia; therefore, they must be remedied. From our point of view, all road and rail infrastructures planned in 2005 and 2006 and which have not been complied with should be completed within a short or medium time frame. It makes no sense to say that the investments planned for 2005 will be completed over the next ten years because we have already been doing so for 12 and 13 years respectively. There is another issue that we raise with you in the subsequent motion for an inquiry that is very relevant to us. On December 30, 2010, the Official Gazette of the State issued a decree transferring Rodalies from the General Administration of the State to the Government of Catalonia. This was done by a socialist government, a socialist government in Madrid and a socialist government in Catalonia. There was one outstanding issue that had to be materialized in the subsequent budgets, and it was the financial envelope, the necessary budget envelope to cover the deficits that had been incurred so far by Renfe Operatora. These deficits have been included year after year in the budgets, but it has been made as a direct transfer not to the Generalitat, so that it would be understood according to its program-contract with Renfe, but directly to Renfe. The Ministry of Development directly transfers the funds that the Generalitat would have to administer to Renfe. That leaves the Generalitat itself in a situation of inferiority in the conditions of negotiation. This is an issue on which the People's Party was closed in the first few years and over the last few years it had a commitment to rectify it because it is simply to comply with the agreements, to give budget allocation to the transpàs. This has not been the case, and the Socialist Government now has the opportunity to amend that initial situation. Therefore, this is one of the situations we are asking for to be resolved now for the budget that they are going to present to us soon because, if not, it will hardly be understood in Catalonia that this change in tone has some credibility. That is one of the fundamental aspects. To establish that this can be negotiated within the framework of the Generalitat-Renfe Joint Committee is not to acknowledge that the problem is at the root. Another determining factor - I am not going to explain the seven points of the motion - is that, if it is acknowledged that the State's infrastructure investment obligations have not been met, it should be fulfilled this year. For the next budgets territorialized investments in Catalonia in relation to territorialized investments in the whole of the Spanish State should represent the same approximate weight in terms of their GDP. We have put the weight of GDP and we understand that we could soften it around the weight of GDP, but giving up this aspect is also going to be difficult, and from here I must admit that yesterday's meeting was not all the good it had to be. The Vice-President Aragonès agreed in the Joint Committee on the payment of a judgment in relation to the third additional provision and we only ask that the 200 million committed this year should not be 200 million in investments already committed by the State, but rather, in accordance with the third additional provision, 200 million transfers so that the Generalitat could implement the investments in infrastructures that it understood reasonably. In any case, I would ask you to vote in favour and if we had any compromises, we would get it to you throughout the plenary. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u84	Thank you very much. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u85	Thank you, President. Today we come to this House to talk about something that I believe is of interest to the citizens. It is not the first time in this legislature that we have talked about Catalonia; it is more, the majority of debates that take place in this House have to do with Catalonia, but it must be acknowledged that the debates that have been most successful have been those that had to do with the flag and those that had to do with who was most Spanish, and I honestly believe that that is not what citizens care about. Today we are discussing an initiative that is really important for citizens, which is to talk about investments in their territory. We congratulate the Democratic Party of Catalonia for having decided to present an initiative that talks about citizens' problems. We believe that this is what we have to do in this House, what citizens expect from us. Surely it is not the most media debate in the world, surely; surely it would be much more interesting for the media that we would devote ourselves here to talking about the importance of one flag or another, but that does not solve the problems of Catalonia, that does not solve the problems of the Spanish and that is why the intervention that the Socialist Party is making today is, first, an intervention seeking empathy with the citizens of Catalonia. [[The Lord]] We have come to a critical situation in an autonomous community, which everyone recognizes, but what I find more interesting or more curious is that I believe that the analysis that each one makes of what the solution can be or what the debate has to go on is wrong; I think that the debate is wrong. As I said, the debate so far has been who has the biggest flag - to say the least - or who has the most beautiful flag, but we have decided that we are going to make the debate thinking about the territories, thinking about the needs of the citizens and seeing why Catalans at some point - at some point in recent years - thought that the Spanish state was abandoning them and giving them worse services than other areas. I believe that in this, as I said before, we must have empathy. If you listen to the Catalans - which is done in a very simple way when you approach the many Catalans who reside there, who were born there or even those who live there being from other autonomous communities, such as Extremadura - you understand that the last governments committed themselves to carrying out certain actions that they never did. How will the citizens of an area not be outraged if they see that the previous government has repeatedly committed itself to improving the system of proximity to Catalonia and that it has repeatedly failed to fulfil its commitments? I recognize that I can come to understand - you see well, I understand it as extreme - that there are some of the Catalan citizens who think that what was to be done with that autonomous community has not been done, so I think this debate is about empathy and understanding what is happening. It is true that I do not understand or share that the debates on investment in infrastructure take place from the territorial point of view, for a simple reason: when they take place from the territorial point of view each territory pulls from the rope towards its side seeking the greatest investment for its territory, and it is impossible that the result that this gives is a territorial balance and a guarantee of equal opportunities for citizens. We want infrastructure to ensure territorial cohesion, we want infrastructure to ensure that all citizens have the same opportunities, so I think we need to think about citizens rather than territories, I think it is the most interesting way to raise this problem. As I said, I am grateful to the group's spokesman, who defends GNP, for his attitude towards dialogue. I think we have an opportunity to show that with dialogue we can reach agreements on important things. He knows perfectly well the position of the Socialist Group, he knows perfectly well the efforts we are willing to make and the efforts we have made, but always seeking consistency with our speech. We will never promise something that we cannot fulfill, we will never seek to set a deadline for the completion of a work if it cannot be fulfilled, because over the past few years we have seen many citizens in many autonomous communities frustrated by how the commitment that the governments acquired was not fulfilled, and that is something that we have to break. From now on we must seek maximum transparency in infrastructures, in how they are planned, in the criteria that are used and also tell citizens the truth and keep the word given. That is why the proposals we have made to the spokesman of the proposing group have been in the sense of fulfilling what we say here today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u87	Very briefly and with your permission, Mr President, from the seat. Decentralizing the management of the basic infrastructures of a territory has also been a basic demand that this Basque Group has on many occasions raised, to do so on the Basque ports and airports we have repeated on numerous occasions. To speed up the implementation of certain infrastructures such as railways, which are precisely of priority, even by the European Commission, and which, even though they are the first to be projected throughout history, are still unimplemented or to ensure the implementation of the commitments that have been included in budgets in respect of a territory, is an issue that this Basque Group has repeatedly raised and, as such, fully understand what the PDECAT is proposing, we will support it. In the same way that we demand the same support when the defence of the interests of the Basques is to be dealt with at some other time in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u89	Thank you, president, deputies, deputies. In about an hour and a half, thousands of Catalans and Catalans will be on the street demanding the freedom of two democrats, two good people and activists of the non-violence culture who have been held in pre-trial detention for a year. [[Applauds]] It is a scandal that political prisoners exist in 21st century Spain. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] We believe that this debate on the government's planned investment policy in infrastructure in Catalonia is indicated by the lack of infrastructure in recent years. In fact, in this year's budgets, investments in Catalonia are still below what would be due to their weight in total population, since despite living 16% of the population of the state and having a weight in relation to GDP of 19%, the accounts reserve 13.3% of investments. It should also be remembered that experience tells us that hopefully we will see a percentage that does not by far reach what is committed, being in recent years between 10 and 13 % of what is budgeted. We have for years and years not met the third additional provision of the Statute d'Autonomia de Catalunya, which links investment with its weight in relation to GDP. It is worth noting, for example, the oblivion of strategic projects such as La Sagrera station, investments in rolling stock, Mediterranean corridor, etc. By the way, speaking of rotalies, it is surprising that the same PSOE and, even more surprising, the Socialist Party of Catalonia voted against the GNP transfer from integral competition to the Generalitat that our group presented. I don't know if this says much about the degree of commitment you have to Catalonia. On investments in the Catalan road network, we have been waiting for years, and it is a real shame, the unfolding of the N-II in its passage through gironine comarques. There is still no tender pending and the works are still abandoned, being a real danger to road safety. The only active is the Medinyà-Orriols section and the section continues pending towards La Junquera. Also pending are the works of the A-2 south of Girona or the A-22 Besalú-Cabanillas or variants pending throughout this tour in the important recovery of the Toses tunnel project. The laxity in all these projects has been incredible, there has been a government of the PSOE, another of the PP and now another of the PSOE and none has had the political will to carry out all these projects. If we talk about rollies, very little progress has been made. At the time, and with a government of the PSOE, with a minister of the PSOE and with a councillor of the PSC, this transfer of raffles was not done well. We ask for the complete transfer, with stations, with trains and with tracks. And to the expenditure failures of the last few years is added a terrible service in which most of the recorded incidences fall on ADIF, an incidences that no longer only fall on Rodalies of Barcelona, but that in the last few months affect in a very important way the regions of Tarragona and Girona. It is also possible to accelerate projects that have been stagnated, such as the coverage of the roads in its passage through Montcada i Reixac, a truly black spot that has claimed the lives of 160 people. There is concern in that city about the lack of progress of this project. On its day Zapatero, and more recently Rajoy, promised us the necessary investments for the development of the Catalan railway infrastructure. We were promised millions of rains and millions of rains promised by the current government of the PSOE. Let's see what's done. In short, and I conclude, if the Socialist Government wants to catch up on infrastructure investments, they have a lot of work to do in Catalonia. Get to work on all these strategic projects before it's too late. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u91	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. Listening the other day to Mr Bel's speech in which he told us about the lack of investment and the lack of execution of investments in Catalonia, I was reflecting from my seat on the ability of some numbers to be interpreted depending on who looks at them, the prism with which they look and, no less important, the intentionality with which they look. Because this motion, all of it, Mr. Bel, has a certain tufilo to that Spain robs us that the independence parties in Catalonia have so much to do with extending. It is true that the fault of the evils of Catalonia is the fault of the rest of Spain, which is the central axis of the construction of this populist economic story based on lies and which is doing so much damage to the Catalan economy. Mr Bel, I understand that with so much change of name even you yourselves become a mess, but you, the PDECAT, are the former Democratic Convergence of Catalonia - you have already been in charge of reminding ALDE, the European Liberal Party - and you are the ones who have supported both the People's Party and the PSOE by voting affirmatively half of the budgets in democracy. Therefore, if you claim that there is an investment deficit in Catalonia, we understand that some responsibility must lie with you who have ruled for thirty years in Catalonia and supported half of the national budgets that have been brought to this House. [[Applauds]] But returning to your arguments, Mr Bel - with some we agree, with others not so much - it is true that the whole of the territorialized investment in Catalonia during the period 1997-2017 is less than the percentage of the population, the percentage of GDP and even other indicators, but it is - and I suppose you will not benefit from these arguments because you are supremacists: in Catalonia we are more than the rest of the Spaniards and we are better - than during that same period Catalonia has been the first autonomous community in both budgeted and executed investment. So maybe we should leave ourselves a little bit of percentage figures - although we already know that you have some obsession with some percentages, like three percent, right, Mr. Bel? - and look more at what the real needs of Catalans are and how we can address those needs. [[applause]] We've got it all figured out. In the last two budgets we have been working to increase these investments in Catalonia. After a lot of negotiation work with the People's Party, we have managed to change the dynamics of the People's Party in recent years and we have managed to pull out billions for investments in Catalonia. In fact, Catalonia in 2018 is the autonomous community that receives the most budget from Fomento, as I say to you, more than €1400 million for key investments, like the Mediterranean corridor, but -ah! - you logically voted against those budgets, although now you come asking for motions that go nowhere and that make no sense. You were talking about the Mediterranean corridor, Mr. Bel. I too am from Tarragona, and those budgets carried 40 million for the Vandellòs variant - as you know - investments that come very late. There were also investments for the third wire between Vila-seca and Castellbisbal, 54 million, also needed to get the goods out of the port. If we talk about proximity, there was a 60% increase in investment between 2017 and 2018 budgets, budgets negotiated by Citizens. We had uprooted the government's commitment to an increase of 4 billion by 2025, half of it in this legislature. There was also an increase in road investments, many of which you were talking about the other day: the A-7 between La Móra and the people of Montornès; also for the project you were asking about the highway between La Jana and El Perrelló, and so we could continue up to the more than 1400 million that from Citizens we managed to take out the People's Party government, but, as I say, you voted against. So one might wonder what you have achieved throughout this legislature, apart from the economic and social destruction of the process. You have to ask yourself what you have achieved, apart from more than 4,500 companies leaving Catalonia. [[Applauds]] You have to ask yourself what you have achieved, apart from the fact that more than 60% of the investment in Catalonia falls, but that investment does not interest you, Mr Bel. You have managed to split Catalan society in half with your lies. They have managed to fracture coexistence with a divisive and exclusive discourse. You lack the slightest legitimacy to talk about investments because you have been, together with your Esquerra partners, together with your CUP partners, the most destructive government for the economy, the most destructive government for Catalan society in all its history, expelling businesses and investments, destroying productive fabric, undermining citizens' confidence and staining Catalonia's prestige and good international image. [[applause]] It's just that, Mr. Bel, they've been or, better said, they're being - because sadly the process seems to have not yet ended - like a real typhoon that's tearing down Catalonia. So I invite you to stop bringing motions like this, to stop victimizing and start doing some self-criticism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. What we discussed here today goes beyond a simple motion. Some of the proposals made by the PDECAT have been for a long time claiming them from our group and most of the Catalan groups in different initiatives. Now just two years ago I personally summarized the state of infrastructure in Catalonia by showing a picture of the variant, which we already have, of Vandellós: people walking down the road to get to the nearest station. This was, still, the image of investments in Catalonia, and especially in the Camp de Tarragona and the Terres de l'Ebre, which suffer from two centralisms, the centralism of the Government of Spain and that of the Government of Catalonia. Promises, many; executions, very few. That image remains the portrait that the minister himself acknowledged last week in this Chamber. I said at the beginning of my speech that it is not another motion, it is the motion to know what are the limits that pragmatic independence has marked itself. We are aware of the pain in having friends, friends and family in prison. I was educated to think that one day I could enter it, like my grandfather or my father, for defending republican values and being communists. I'm no stranger to pain. At the moment, I belong to the first generation of my family that does not suffer imprisonment for defending their ideas in a Spain that, with its shortcomings, is democratic. We understand that the pain of excessive, unnecessary and out-of-place pre-trial detention results in some vertigo. It is understandable, but this should not prevent them from seeing things realistically and realizing that the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament cannot remain paralysed. We're not playing with the discomfort of half the population, we're playing with the country and the discomfort of its people, think about what they think about independence. While some were beating and judicializing politics, there were others, not only our Confederal Group, who offered them a runway that they did not use because they did not oppose their electorate, enchanted with magical independence and express. You, Mr. Bell, like me, have been mayor and you know that not always easy applause and contenting the parishioners is the most responsible. That's where the ability is measured in politics. The agreement reached by President Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias at the head of the Confederal Group gives them a unique momentum. You know perfectly well that this is a good deal for Catalonia. We'll have $22 billion to be sovereign, 1,000 in direct investment. Many of our workers will be able to benefit from the minimum interprofessional wage of 900 euros. Unemployed persons over 52 years of age will be able to recover the allowance. Pensioners will update their pensions according to the CPI and the minimum pensions, the non-contributory ones, will increase by 3%. We will change the rules of rents, we will be able to be sovereign to put a stop to the abusive increase in rents. The electrical bill will be modified. All that with you can come true in 2019. It's time to decide if they want and are able to use the wildcard we're offering them and deflate magical independence. As in the motion of censure, when our group did not stop repeating that the numbers gave, the numbers give again and if we add those of that historic day we have a responsibility not to turn our work into sterile, but to be useful. We want to rule our airports and we need to be able to rule from Catalonia without the turbulence of Waterloo. These vessels can lead us to a forced landing and cause us to crash against the wall of the 155 social and self-government cuts, which harm not 50% of the population, but 99% of Catalans and Catalans. Again, this motion does not go to infrastructure, it goes to common sense, to shared sovereignty, to plural Spain, to those who are willing to call them Judas knowing that the best currency is the good of their people. We can continue to play poker or cheat in solitary, but those who lose if the deck breaks are all, mainly Catalans. I ended up remembering once again that the Jordi have been unjustly in prison for 365 days today and that it was precisely Jordi Cuixart who did not say long ago: that prisoners are not a currency of exchange. You, ladies and gentlemen, have the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Roca Mas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u95	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a motion for Catalan nationalism that calls for more infrastructure skills. Before deciding, we need to look at the infrastructure policy of nationalism. I will sum it up on two points. First, Line 9 of the Barcelona Metro, which announced it twenty years ago for EUR 19 billion and twenty years later, cost us EUR 20 billion, Europe's worst civil works disaster. And, secondly, the management of neighbourhoods, of raffles, which is transferred to the Generalitat. When the security parameters changed, a normal government changed the schedules so that people knew what time the trains left and what time they arrived; but they didn't change the schedules, pissed people off and blamed Madrid. If you ask any normal European, the worst government in terms of quality and the worst government in terms of quantity, you don't deserve more skills, you deserve less skills. And when you have the worst regional government in Europe, you think, can you go to worse? Yes, it could get worse and socialism has come with its investment policies. And what are the Socialist Party's investment policies? I will sum it up in two letters, ZP, which promised us that we would advance Germany in GDP and began to water Spain with plans E, works that no city wanted because they didn't even have them in their budgets. And all that socialist waste party where did you leave us? He left us with the Socialist Party lowering pensions, cutting and stopping all of Spain's investments were important or not. And when you have the worst government in history - again - you arise, and you can go to worse? Yes, it could get worse and international populism has come with its economic policy. And what is the economic policy of international populism? Spending all the money until it's over, but spending other people's money, because the bad thing is not that you spend over your possibilities when you rule, the problem is that you spend over our possibilities. We have seen the effects in Greece, we are seeing the effects in Italy and it hurts my soul, for whom we have sentimental bonds of childhood with Venezuela, see what populism has done and is doing in Venezuela. And the roots of that we are seeing, we have seen them the other day in that false budget that they have presented to us, which for you must be an embryo of a five-year plan, but for the Spaniards it is the pillar of the next recession. Spain was the country of Europe that created the most employment, it was the country that grew the most, and now it has fallen into the hands of a Frankenstein coalition, a coalition to which only hatreds, identity hatreds, class hatreds, hatreds of ideas, a coalition against freedom and equality. You are a deja vu, the Spaniards have already lived with you, we have suffered with you. And when one is trapped in the clutches of a coalition of nationalists, populists and socialists, it arises, can one go to worse? No, it cannot go any worse; fortunately, we will go better because the next thing to come will be the PP and, as we have already shown twice - not once, but twice - that we leave Spain better than what socialist friends leave us, we will make the Spaniards better as soon as they give us back confidence. [[Rumors]] I know that you, in your wanderings through the rubble of the Berlin wall, will think, why, why, why does everything go wrong with us and the PP goes well? [[Rumors]] For two things: the first is for the best ideas, without a doubt, and the second is, modestly, for love of Spain, because love of Spain is love of all Spaniards, they vote for us or they do not vote for us. Can you honestly, with your heart in your hand, say the same thing? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Roca. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Bel whether his group accepts the amendment tabled. [[Rumors]] I'd beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u97	We're about to finish trading it, President. If that were the case, we would bring it to the Bureau and to the spokespersons throughout the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u98	All right. Thank you very much. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, TO THE SUBJECT OF KNOWING WHAT IS THE COMMITMENT OF THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY WITH THE DEFENCE OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION AND WHAT RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS PRESENT TO LIMIT. [[File number 173/000111]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u99	We continue with the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, in order to know what is the commitment of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality with the defence of the Spanish Constitution and what rights and freedoms it intends to limit. For the group author of the initiative, he has the word Sánchez-Camacho Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I too wanted to begin today, as some Members of this House seem to be doing, remembering that a few days ago a coup d'état was given to democracy in Catalonia, the statute was violated, the Constitution was violated, the democratic and coexistence rules were broken, thanks to some coupsmen who broke the rules of the democratic game. [[Applauds]] That is also what happened a year ago, and this State, this country, had to make decisions. Therefore, they are not permanently talking about Catalan political prisoners, nor victimizing themselves, because there are no Catalan political prisoners, there are Catalan independenceists who have allegedly acted against the law, because you, who are independentists, are not prisoners, are there, deciding and exposing your freedom of expression, your ideology and rising to this rostrum just as I am. Therefore, do not confuse Catalan citizenship, do not confuse the Spaniards, because those who are in prison or runaway are because they have allegedly acted against the Constitution, the law and democracy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our group has been forced to table this motion because the situation in Catalonia is very serious. There is a situation in Catalonia where the Socialist Government renounces the defence of the judges, the defence of the security forces and bodies, the abandonment of the Catalans in the face of continuous separatist abuses, which obliges us, ladies and gentlemen, to present this motion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only non-independence Catalans, we are only seeing flooded with oppressive symbolism our streets, our squares, our public buildings. What alone are we when some - the ANC - are dedicated to making lists of journalists who do not agree with the independentist postulates, to making lists of companies who do not agree with the independentist postulates. That is the true Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, the Catalonia which is silent, most of Catalonia which is not independentist and does not live in freedom and coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, the separatists are totaling the public space. We find that the smile revolution has manifested its true face, the bitter-sweet face of violence on the streets, the bitter-sweet face that tries to assault the Parliament of Catalonia, the bitter-sweet face that tries to assault the sub-delegation of the Government in Catalonia, which closes railway tracks, which prevents normal life. Is that the smile revolution? No, that is the totalitarian revolution, that of the imposition and the break that they want between Catalans and that they want with Spain. That's what you're defending, independentists. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Torra encouraged radical commanders and stalkers with torches, and the socialist government does not react. Separatism is destroying freedom, separatism is destroying coexistence in Catalonia, but the worst of all is to see that the socialist government is looking the other way, and the socialist government, lords of the Socialist Party, has sold us in exchange for still sitting on the blue bench; and not everything in politics, socialist gentlemen, has a price. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we want, from the bench of the People's Party and from the motion we are presenting, to say that the millions of Spaniards representing the People's Party and other democrats are today showing solidarity with many thousands of Catalans who are helpless in the face of the abandonment of the Catalan institutions and the abandonment of the Government of Spain. We also want to express, ladies and gentlemen, our support for the State Security Forces and Corps, which have been insulted, which have been attacked by radical commands. From here, from the house of the word, from the house of democracy we transfer our absolute solidarity, recognition and support. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must condemn all the actions of the Government of the Generalitat which are not in favour of the general interest, but of the interest of the process. What do I mean by that? I would like to remind you that the Spanish Government must also support the public institutions representing Catalans in Catalonia. The Spanish Government also has to support the judges, and we all know what has happened with the judges in Catalonia, we all know what has happened with Mr Llarena: that the socialist government has had to go after the requests of the judicial and prosecutor's associations to give protection to Judge Llarena when they did not want to act and did not want to defend Spain's jurisdictional sovereignty. Its role, the role of the Government of Spain, is very regrettable. Ladies and gentlemen, today we Democrats believe that we must condemn the radical words of encouragement and encouragement of President Torra to the radical commands. Ladies and gentlemen, he said to them, "Open up, tighten up. He encouraged them to violence! But yesterday Mr Torra called for disobedience; he said that we had to get to the last consequences. And today it has called to disobedience thousands of Catalans in the coming weeks. Do you believe that this is a democratic attitude, framed in the Constitution, that a president of the Generalitat calls violence, calls disobedience to Catalan society and says that it will come to the end with all its consequences? Plant it, Socialist Party gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also believe that the previous controls on the finances of the Generalitat should be strengthened. We have all seen what has happened to the Generalitat's financial mismanagement and how previous controls had to be established since 2015 and 2017 and then under 155. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want any euro or television, TV3, sectarian, partisan, to be paid with my taxes; I do not want a single embassy to be paid, not in my name and not in my taxes, and not with the thousands of Catalans who do not want to pay with their taxes the invoice of the process, the invoice of the separatists. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is to act, gentlemen of the Government, to act and to establish a prior control of the Generalitat's accounts. The answer is that the Generalitat has subsequently established embassies in the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and France. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, because we believe that we are faced with the permanent threat of the Government of the Generalitat, we understand that the situation has not improved in Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation has worsened in Catalonia. The situation has worsened in Catalonia because we have a socialist government that in five months has moved a much worse situation not only throughout Spain, with a budgetary policy that will bring more unemployment, more deficit and more debt, but has worsened the situation in Catalonia in which more violence occurs, in which there is more abandonment and in which, moreover, you are paying the toll to the enemies of Spain, you are paying the bill to those partners who want to break Spain. You've been giving in permanently. Their dialogue is not dialogue, because they do not want to dialogue. Since 2012, they have been asked for dialogue. Felipe González himself said that there is nothing to talk to them about, that they only want the self-destruction of Spain's national integrity. I'm not saying it, Felipe González said it a few days ago. They do not want dialogue, so they do not practice it in Catalonia, they have not practiced it since 2015, they have not practiced it with any of the political formations that we have been there; they are only for what they are for, for referendum yes, referendum yes, rupture of Spain and independence of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this situation we believe that a courageous decision must be taken. A brave decision because it is time to make policy, not the policy of surrender to bring prisoners closer to Lledoners prison, not the policy of pressure to facilitate more revenue to TV3, not the policy of surrender to be in the hands of separatists to get budgets by paying them a toll. We believe that doing politics now is not doing politics like Chamberlain, but doing politics like Churchill. We believe that now is not the time for the Munich agreements, we believe that now is the time to strengthen our constitutional commitment. That's why, formally, because the situation is so serious...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u101	Mrs. Camacho, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u102	It's over, President. Because the situation is so serious in Catalonia, we formally ask that the Government of Spain officially require Mr. Torra to be within the framework of the Constitution under Article 155 and, if not, if he continues to threaten legality in Catalonia, you insist on a 155 in the Senate. That will be the guarantee of our freedom, the guarantee of our coexistence, the guarantee of the future of Spain. If they don't, they'll be wrong. At the moment we have to make tough decisions, difficult decisions...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u103	Mrs. Camacho, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u104	It's over, President. You, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, did so with us and now I tell you more, we must ask for a 155 harder, that it controls TV3 and that it controls the school because otherwise, the conflict in Catalonia can never be resolved. We wait for them, we wait for them in courageous decisions and not in support of the enemies of Catalonia and Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Camacho. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Be my first words to remind Jordi Sánchez Picanyol and Jordi Cuixart i Navarro, 365 days in pre-trial detention. They review the democracies of their environment, review the democratic standards of their environment and consider whether a year of pre-trial detention can give Spain the consideration of mature democracy. I'm not saying it, Amnesty International has said it in the last few hours. I have five minutes on behalf of the Joint Group, I don't think I'm going to spend them. Mrs Sánchez-Camacho, you are a pyromaniac firefighter because you represent the People's Party, the People's Party that collected signatures against the Catalonian Autonomy Statute, a firm against Catalans that is at the origin of much of the problems that currently exist in the political claim in Catalonia. Because you say, "We were just some citizens in Catalonia!" How few of us were just putting forward options to get out of the political crisis in the months of March, April and May last year in the face of the absolute passivity of a Spanish government that was replying to us: we are going to win by ten to zero! I hear you talking about enemies and that is a war language that says a lot about the People's Party and that I think it also says a lot about why on June 1st you almost didn't even know that a motion of censure was successful to move on and try to make a new stage of dialogue in Spain between those who think differently. But in order for dialogue to take place between those who think differently, first of all, one must recognize the other, respect it and not deny it, as the People's Party has been doing not only denying the other but also, from rather dark parts of the State, trying to annihilate it politically. For this reason, when I hear the word enemies of Spain referring to democratically elected people sitting in this House, I am reverberated by the worst episodes of an improper mindset of forty years of democratic life. Mrs Sánchez-Camacho, we are going to vote no to your motion which has little to do with what is proposed in Parliament, because you, among other things, are proposing a new 155 on the finances of the Generalitat. You say: Not with my vote I will allow Catalonia's self-government, not with my vote I will allow the political orientation that the citizens of Catalonia have freely decided with massive participation in the elections on 21 December last year. Mrs Sánchez-Camacho - I hope you listen to me carefully - you will know that the democratic will, repeatedly expressed in the ballot box during various elections, and especially from 2012 until the end of 2018, requires a political response and not a war language, the use of expressions like the enemy, because the enemy leads to that concept of a certain idea of Spain from killing her because it was mine and it seems that you want to kill politically those who think differently to you without respecting them and without engaging in a democratic dialogue. I believe that for this reason you still do not understand that a new page was opened on 1 June in the history of this Parliament, but you will know what you have to do with your future. I understand that the right and the extreme right tighten, but what I have seen from June 1 until now is a radicalisation towards the extreme right of the People's Party in its approaches. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u108	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a motion by the People's Parliamentary Group following an inquiry in which we are once again put on the table the particular obsessions of the People's Party with a tremendous language that we do not share. The Basque Parliamentary Group does not believe that a coup d'état or rebellion was taking place in Catalonia a year ago; it lacked the use of credible force with the capacity to coerce that can only be provided with armed persons, whether public officials or not, without prejudice to the existence of obvious and repeated violations of judicial decisions. As Mr Sánchez Cuenca also pointed out a few weekends ago in La Vanguardia, we were not facing a coup d'état because what happened there did not seek to destroy the Spanish political order, that is, democracy in Spain, but to make Catalonia a democratic republic as well. What happened in Catalonia was not a coup d'état, but a constitutional crisis in relation to its national identity, which, as the aforementioned author pointed out, has left the most fundamental political consensus that allows the constitutional principles to operate in practice. As has been said in political theory, and also in the philosophy of law, without the existence of a shared demo, the principle of legality loses some of its legitimacy and even more so with constitutional legality. That is why, in its day, the Basque Parliamentary Group did not support the application of Article 155 in Catalonia, and that is why we will not now support this motion, which seeks the Government to initiate the procedures to implement it again. We then demanded dialogue and did not get it, and now that it is beginning to be practiced, no one will count on our support to truncate it. This motion by the People's Parliamentary Group is aimed at unravelling the path that has been taken in politics - albeit timidly, in our view - with regard to the Catalan issue. He wants us to return to the non-political one that has been practiced until recently by the central Government. That we return to an exclusively police or judicial treatment that the only thing that has brought us is a greater enchantment and show the less friendly face of Spanish democracy, which is, but of low quality, at least in this matter, in our opinion. We have said on several occasions, and now we repeat, that the application of article 155 seemed to us to be an abuse; that the intervention of the Police and the Civil Guard on 1-O in Catalonia seemed to us to be an abuse, and that the accusation of rebellion and the imprisonment of Catalan independent politicians, of which one year is now being celebrated with regard to Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, seems to us to be an abuse of the rule of law. [[Applauds]] The motion of the People's Party again proposes that we start anew the wheel of repression and judicialization. This wheel has only brought unnecessary suffering and has not helped to resolve a political conflict, but quite the opposite, nor does it help the mobilization and get out on the street. Between these two extremes, that of repression and judicialization and street mobilizations, sometimes violent, must be sought and found the space of dialogue, the space of politics, from trust, from mutual respect, from the defense of one's own interests but without putting conditions of impossible fulfillment to one another, knowing what the limits of the other are. Dialogue without imposing and without stopping. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said this in this rostrum before and I repeat this: between the stick and the street there must be politics and a dialogue solution. From dialogue and politics we can expect something; from judicialization and repression, only the prolongation of the conflict and more unnecessary suffering. Therefore, we will not support the motion, as it urges the Government to initiate the application of Article 155 with a request to the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I conclude, Chairman, by pointing out that we will also not support the rest of the points of the motion, which are aimed at condemning or supporting actions or statements not attributable to the Government, since the appeals and motions are institutes of impulse and control to the Government, as provided for in article 111 of the Constitution, and not for other purposes, be these more or less laudable but alien to those figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u110	Good afternoon, congressmen and congressmen. Yesterday we condemned with sadness the shooting of President Lluís Companys in the castle of Montjuic by Francoist troops. The only democratically elected and shot president of Europe. Assassination that today the Spanish Government has not condemned. And today we join another day of deep sadness as our friends and colleagues Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez have been unjustly imprisoned for a year for non-existent and disproportionate crimes. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Around the year 400 BC, in ancient Greece the philosopher Antisthenes founded one of the schools of thought that most stirred up at that time, the cynical school. His thought was deeply critical with the Platonic school and his disciples had no scruples in showing their contempt for all conventionalisms. Their speeches did not contain a delicate language, but they showed aggressiveness, insults and contempt. And, saving ideological and temporal distances, this is what the People's Party presents us with this motion. His efforts to distort the Catalan reality have no limits but no foundations. They seek not understanding or dialogue, but quite the contrary, the rift and division of Catalan society. The Congress of Deputies and the Government should express support for the victims of the violence and police abuse of October 1, 2017, the day when the Civil Guard and the National Police beat up hundreds of women and children for simply wanting to vote, as well as condemn the fascist attacks that take place in the Catalan countries. The Government of the Generalitat has never set aside Catalans and Catalans, but is working hard to achieve a social system that guarantees and protects the rights and services of its citizens; for example, they are laws on health or equality, which the Government of the PP has dedicated itself to using to prevent Catalans and Catalans from having access to decent services. In the Republican Left it seems hypocritical to us that the ladies and gentlemen of the PP ask for the intervention of the accounts of the Generalitat of Catalonia. The Spanish State does not have to investigate alleged misappropriations of public funds which, today, have not been proven; the Spanish Government should investigate what has happened during all these years of continuous looting of public coffers by the People's Party and the Socialist Party; an institutional corruption for which you are being tried as a criminal organization. They should be ashamed of themselves. If you want Catalonia so badly, explain to us what benefits 155 has had. Do you really know the negative effects that it has caused in 155 in Catalonia and that have affected us all, both people who are related to independence and those who are not? Well, look, some of them are: forty thousand files were left unsolved of guaranteed income, forty thousand people without the possibility of benefiting; payments of compensation were suspended... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u111	Wait a minute, Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u112	If this, really, is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u114	Thank you, President. The halting of the comprehensive emergency plan of Catalonia, the halting of investment in primary health care centres worth EUR 13 million; the halting of research to overcome cancer at the Institut Recerca Biomèdica de Lleida; the halting of the approval of the national council of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals; the blocking of the approval and implementation of the temporary programme for the care of unaccompanied minors. These are many of all the damages that 155 in Catalonia has caused and which are in the report of the Sindic de Greuges. Catalans and Catalans are victims of harassment by the Spanish State, which wants to systematically impose its supremacy and hatred on our language and culture. What you want is Erdogan's Turkey, the systematic repression of nations, of peoples, of languages, of cultures other than Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, your fear of the Vox party is making you lose the north and return to your darkest past. And, as I suppose you will imagine, the meaning of our vote on this motion will be negative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u116	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed a motion following an inquiry that took place last week; these are two motions practically based on a matter of concern, of concern to the Spanish and of concern to the Catalans. The spokesman for the Socialist Group in the previous motion, which had to do with investments and infrastructure, said that that mattered to the Catalans and that what was going to be discussed now did not matter. Well, I say to you, as Spanish and Catalan, that the break-up of living together in Catalonia does matter to the citizens, yes to the Catalans, surely it will not matter to you; the break-up and inequality of the Spanish also matter to us. [[applause]] Therefore, we are going to deal with serious issues and issues that matter to the Spanish and that matter to the Catalans very much. In last week's interpellation Minister Batet stressed a subject that Mr Xuclà also mentioned today, and that is that in Catalonia - said both the Minister of the Socialist Party and the representative of the PDECAT, one of the parties that collaborated in the coup, in this they have the same speech - we have to do politics. Well, that is what we are asking this government, in Catalonia, to do policy. To do politics is to apply the Constitution, to do politics is to apply 155 so that the laws in Catalonia are complied with. If the Government does not act politically, if the Government renounces the application of the Constitution in Catalonia, if the Government renounces the application of the necessary mechanisms for compliance with the law in Catalonia, the coup players will act again, their coup partners will indeed act again. Mr Torra, your preferred partner, has already told you: we will reach the end. I don't know how they interpret those words. They will act again, and when they do so, it will only be up to the judges to act to defend the rule of law. If you do not do politics, if you do not apply the Constitution, the only limit for those who skip the law, the only limit for those who strike democracy will again be the judges and the rule of law, and then we will say that politics is judicialized. Politics is not judicialized, it is that you leave your responsibilities and do not want to act when you can. [[Applauds]] The minister also said - and in this I give her the reason - that the problems of living together in Catalonia, of skipping legality, of legal and economic insecurity did not begin with this government, and it is true, they began well before. It is also true that with the previous Government there was a social fracture, which with the previous Government there was a flight of businesses. It is true that with the former Government, even applying 155, there was occupation of public spaces and there were yellow ties in the councils for which the ministers of the former Government were supposed to be responsible; it is true. It is true that with the previous Government applying 155 there was a high inspection report talking about indoctrination in schools that the minister and acting adviser hid in a drawer and did not want to bring to light. [[Applauds]] All this is true and I recognize the minister. We have to learn. We learned that it is good to apply the 155 to stop the feet of the thugs, but we must also learn how it is applied in an insufficient or ineffective way 155 to better apply it next time. It is also true that it was the previous Government and Mr. Sánchez who came together to say that 155 was rising. It was Mr. Rajoy - the previous government - and Mr. Pedro Sánchez who took the picture in a chair in the Moncloa to decide that 155 was rising and I did not hear Mr. Casado raise his hand at the time saying that there was no reason to raise 155, that it had to be kept so that the coup players would not have the money, the police, education and the media again and be able to handle them wide. It is true that this did not happen, but now there is a situation different from that at the time and it is that those who gave the blow in Catalonia, those who gave the blow to democracy are the partners of the Government of Spain, are the partners of Mr Sánchez. That is the difference, that the separatists, that the couptists decided they preferred Mr. Sánchez as president of the government and that the separatists and the couptists say they prefer to keep Sánchez. They do well to keep Sánchez, keep him in the government as much as they can because when there are elections, when the Spanish can speak, when there is a government of Citizens, of course the separatists, the coup and the nationalists will have run out of cabbage. Thank you very much, Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Villegas. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u118	Good afternoon, all of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have just seen this: you come with the size of the orange agent, playing your perverse game of seeing who is more Spanish and seeing who leads the highest and strongest redhead. And they do so with an ancient, noisy, exclusionary speech and, let me say, deeply boring. They insist with the very Spanish and very Spanish, and meanwhile they expect us to forget their particular conception of patriotism and Spain. You, the ones responsible for the greatest restriction of rights and freedoms in democracy, those of the law of gags, those of the Wert law, the perpetrators of the criminalization of the right to strike, of the right to protest, of free expression, the authors of the labor reform that has brought more precariousness, labor poverty and inequality, those responsible for the autonomic involution, those responsible for sowing the territorial conflict and for suppressing social mobilizations based on fines, beatings and imprisonment. You, who forget the Constitution when you talk about rights. You, who wanted to read in article 155 what you do not say with the sole aim of replacing the legitimate Government of the Generalitat and assuming control of the Catalan Administration and, in passing - notice to navigators - to intimidate any autonomous or municipal Government that dares to disagree with the central Government. They do not realize where they have taken their taste for authoritarianism, persecutions, incarcerations of social leaders, members of the government unjustly turned into prisoners and political prey. Furious repression of peaceful citizen consultation, is that something else, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho? More than a thousand wounded, shameful scenes that projected to the world that dirty Spanish brand, sunk in the mud. You have preferred to abdicate politics and entice yourself behind the courts and the batons, and now you are proposing to return to that stage, precisely today, the first anniversary of the unjust and undemocratic imprisonment of Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart. [[Applauds]] If you had a head, if you had dignity, you would come up to apologize to this stand and not to propose the return to the path that so much pain and so much confrontation has brought us. However, it turns out that you, who are so critical of President Pedro Sánchez, even getting him to call him okupa, now, through Article 155, intend to appoint him president of the Generalitat. Bravo, great, great play. And when they fail again, what are they going to propose, return to disgovernment, call elections? In that they will coincide with President Torra, perhaps. To legalize parties that do not think like you starting with the independenceists, as proposed by Pablo Casado? They land at once, return to real Spain, see how 70% of the population rejects the bad management of the Rajoy government and abandon their immobile efforts. As you, together with Citizens, deepen your failed recipes, our group brings to this House accounts for hope, accounts for improving the lives of Spanish and Spanish people, Catalans and Catalans, accounts for social cohesion, territorial cohesion, accounts that will reduce waiting lists, lower rental prices and raise the interprofessional minimum wage, from a framework of dialogue that will strengthen Catalonia's own institutions and democratic rights of citizenship, will go beyond the lost decade of the People's Party and put an end to cuts by reversing their re-centralisation. And if you have renounced being a state party, if you, in fact, have come to renounce governing, at least let us do it to us. Even Catalans and Catalans who, as you well know, have no custom of voting for them, we will thank you. You will know which path you prefer to walk: that of freedom, equality and fraternity or that of belief, obedience and struggle. While they're thinking about it, while narrowly gripped they keep turning on their tile with Citizens, we'll move forward. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Moya. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Cruz Rodríguez has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u120	Thank you, President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to start my speech with a little confidence: last Wednesday, as I listened to Mrs Dolors Montserrat present her inquiry, I thought for myself that it cannot be that a sensible and reasonable person like her believes what she is saying. Look at the extent to which the statements made by the so-called spokesman for the People's Party in her first speech were out of logic, a feeling which, of course, did not change me, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho. In case someone's forgotten and thinks I'm overreacting, I'll remember some of the pearls Mrs. Montserrat dropped from this rostrum. I open quotes: You prefer to be the advocates of coup before you risk losing your chair and power. You try to calm the tiger by letting it devour Spain. You are kneeling before the separatists because you are partners and your accomplices. So far the date. But when Mrs Montserrat came up it was definitely in the turn of reply, when she came to affirm things like this: 'We no longer let ourselves be fooled by the Socialist Party, which has lost the E of Spain, has lost dignity in the defense of Spain, the pride of feeling Spanish and the pride of feeling Catalan too'. I close quotes. This was followed by prolonged applause, according to the Journal of Sessions. Anyone would think, listening to such phrases, that Pedro Sánchez has been ruling this country for years and that no other than him is solely responsible for the current conflicting situation in Catalonia, while you, from the opposition, to their regret, could not have done more during this time than to warn of the dangers that all Spaniards were faced with. However, it turns out that it is the other way around and that all that we have given to call the process has happened with the PP in the government and the first few years, by the way, with an absolute majority. Mrs Montserrat, you share with your fellow Members of the People's Party a bitter capacity not only to twist the arguments, but, more seriously, to forget the facts that do not suit you. [[Applauds]] So much is his ability that he even manages to turn Mr Rajoy's management in Catalonia into a triumphal chronicle. According to his interpretation - attentive to this, do not miss it - history will always thank President Rajoy and the Government of the People's Party that at that time we would give priority to coexistence and the law, above, of course, electoral and party interests. End of date. It does not cease to be a fun point his strong statement. So much you talk about Venezuela at the slightest opportunity to end up paraphrased Fidel Castro's famous phrase 'history will acquit me', now in version 'history will thank me'. Well, what do you want me to tell you, gentlemen of the People's Party? Either the story goes crazy or I don't think it's possible to thank Mr Rajoy for the pertinence of the anchovies he devoted himself to during these years of proceedings, letting the situation in Catalonia rot completely and being perfectly incapable of presenting any alternative, beyond the obvious appeal to law enforcement. Unfortunately, his attitude does not come back to us. In fact, it's almost the brand of the house, brand that you don't seem willing to give up. It claims loyalty to the opposition when it is in the government - and, by the way, they get it - and throw themselves into the most feverish disloyalty when they are in the opposition. It is likely that this disembodied, if not obscene, political hypocrisy is at the root of the extreme difficulty that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have in drawing up a minimally coherent account of your changing political positions as a party over time. So you, who, as Mrs Batet reminded you last week, have come late to all democratic conquests in this country, intend to present themselves now as their champions. Posts to arrive late, they arrive late to the praise to Felipe González, whom the newly rehabilitated José María Aznar did not cease to incriminate with his famous 'go, Mr.Gonzalez' when he was nervous to get to power as soon as possible, almost as much as his son Albert Rivera in recent months, and to whom now it turns out that Mrs.Montserrat - surprises give you life - seems to long. I'm done. Gentlemen of the People's Party, it is clear that being in the opposition confuses them, not only because they have decided to abandon political moderation altogether, but also because they seem to have abandoned the slightest restraint in any other order, including that of the argument itself. That is why I would dare to give you a piece of advice to finish my speech, although I already realize that you are not going to make the slightest case for me, obviously, but I am flattered at the bottom that you do not listen to me. [[Applauds]] This is the advice: do not continue along the path of demagogy, sophism and overperformance; with this kind of resources you will not go anywhere. You should try wisely. Sometimes it works. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u121	Thank you, Mr. Cruz. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON GOVERNMENT POLICIES TO PREVENT AND AFFECT THE SCALE OF VIOLENCE IN CATALUNIA. [[File number. 173/000112]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u122	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on government policies aimed at preventing and curbing the escalation of violence in Catalonia. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u123	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u124	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u125	Last week we called on the government to do something and to act again in Catalonia, an absent government, a government that is always on the plane, in the helicopter, but that is very little where it has to be, which is in Catalonia, which is where we are playing the union, freedom and equality between Spaniards, and the minister replied to our group and that is why we have tabled this subsequent motion. In this motion we intend to do politics. There is a clause in our Constitution which is the famous article 155, copied from the German Constitution, which is political. On this I am addressing the Government in particular - well, the Government is not, but I am addressing its party, the Socialist Party - to tell you: politics, you do politics and you protect the judges and you do not forsake them. The judges in Catalonia, in my land, in the land of many of us here, receive threats and you do not take away the paintings from your house. Neither the Government of Spain nor the Diputación nor anyone else had what they had to have to clean up the paints and threats to Judge Llarena. [[Applauds]] Do you know why Judge Llarena and other judges have to act? Because it certainly did not become political in time, because it certainly did not apply the Constitution in time; it is true, and therefore we cannot allow it to happen again, because we cannot make judges and prosecutors the only guarantors of the Constitution. The first guarantors of the Constitution must be the rulers, the executive, this House and the Senate. Therefore, what we ask in this motion is to make politics, to apply a clause copied from the German Constitution. Why can't we do politics, because Mr. Torra tells us? Mr. Borrell said today that Torra has us with the soul in vile. Hey, how sad that 47 million Spaniards depend, because of Sánchez, on what Torra wants to do. I don't want to depend on Torra. [[Applauds]] You have given the State policy to whom you want to liquidate the State and the economic policy to Mr. Iglesias and Podemos. What could go wrong, right? What could go wrong? [[Applauds]] This is not an opinion, because Mr. Torra said - because we must recognize Mr. Torra's face - and he did so publicly: we must attack the state. What part have you not understood of this sentence? We have to attack the state. And they ask Sanchez and he says, no, it's all very consumable. Look, you just don't want to act. You know why? Because they care more to follow a few days in the Moncloa and reach the government in any way than to govern Spain. You cannot rule Spain, socialist gentlemen, with whom you want to liquidate Spain; let's see if you understand: you can't. And as long as this vodka lasts, as long as this pact between separatists, populists and their party lasts, Spain will be in the hands of what Torra says, and I do not want our children's future to depend on what Torra says and I do not want it to depend on what Esquerra Republicana says; I want it to depend on what 70% of Spaniards who vote for moderate parties, constitutional parties say. Sanchismo, Mr Sánchez, has abandoned constitutionalism to be president by the face and we believe that the Constitution must now be implemented. [[applause]] But I'll go further, I admit we don't just believe it now. I met Mr. Rajoy when Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Sánchez agreed to lift 155 and asked Mr. Rajoy not to lift it. It is true that the People's Party raised 155 next to you. We should not have raised it, not for nothing, but because they were telling us to face that they wanted to liquidate the state. I am therefore very sorry, but in the face of these forty years of appeasement, of pasteling, of cleaning up the image of nationalism, which is an idea and an ideology contrary to democratic values, an ideology contrary to Europe, I am not prepared to continue to tolerate this, and I believe that our parliamentary group has an obligation to tell the Spaniards that not everyone agrees to clean up the image of nationalists, that there is an alternative that is the constitutionalism of the twenty-first century. So in this motion we ask for four very simple things. First, we urge the pre-requisition of 155. For what? Because it is the requirement that must be applied, but also to know whether Torra will meet or not all that she is saying. He says he's going to liquidate the state, he encourages the CDRs, the separatist commands, to act, he brazenly says he's going to go all the way, like Puigdemont. What more evidence do you need to require an autonomous community to conform to the Constitution? 155 - read it, please - says that when an autonomous community attacks the general interest of Spain the Government can act. I'd say you should act. Does it not seem to you that opening embassies around the world going against the interests of Spain is a reason to act? Doesn't it seem to you that indoctrination in schools is a reason to act? Does it not seem to you that the fact that public television in Catalonia is dedicated to going against democratic and constitutional values is a reason for action? How many more examples do you need? Does it not seem serious to you that the Mossos d'Esquadra should be instructed to go against what the Ombudsman or the prosecutor say, which is that yellow ties can be removed when they are occupying the public street? What more evidence do you need? I'm telling you. You don't need any proof, you know it, that's why it's serious, because you know what's going on and you care very little, not to say anything, because you just want to rule at any price. [[Applauds]] The group that came up to this rostrum in the previous motion talking about the Jordis asked one thing. Are you seniors? Are the Jordi adults or minors? I'm saying it because when you get on top of a Civil Guard car and surround a council, you have to know what you're doing, what it's a crime, you have to know. [[Applauds]] Is Mr. Junqueras older, yes or no? He's a grown-up? Well, when you plan a coup with public money, you have to know what you're doing. That is what they have taught us all in democracy, that we must comply with the laws. Or is it that you are minors who do not have to comply with the Penal Code? Well, if you're older, you know what happens when you crush five court rulings and breast-feed like Puigdemont, that you have to be bad enough to crush court rulings. Then they say that the state acts against them - the jailers, says Mr Rufián - when it is you who have wanted to commit all those crimes. I wish they hadn't committed them, the Catalans would have been much better, I wish they hadn't committed them. [[Applauds]] When you commit crimes, when you spend public money on a coup d'état, when you destroy Civil Guard cars, yes, when you do all that, you submit to the law, because this is a democracy, not the banana republic of Catalonia; it is a democracy. [[Applauds]] So I'm sorry, but I respect those who respect the laws more than those who do not respect them, I respect judges threatened by their puppies more than those who do not comply with the law, I respect those who work in Catalonia to defend the Constitution more than those who liquidate it. That is why we tabled this motion. Today, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, you have to vote here, you have to get wet. There is a proposal condemning the violence of separatist commanders. Socialists, whether or not to condemn violence? Yes or no to condemn what the separatist commands did on October 1st? Yes or no to those who surrounded Parliament, to their deputies, to ours or to those of the People's Party? Yes or no? You guys don't give a shit? Are you really going to vote against today's condemnation of violence? Are you really going to vote against making a requirement to implement the Constitution? Are you going to vote against Mr Torra's statements encouraging the CoRs? Well, this is what we are voting for today, so I invite you to reflect. We were together in the implementation of the Constitution, we will be together whenever you defend it, but you will not find us next to those who beat democracy. You have abandoned constitutionalism and it is time for you to come back. You have an opportunity, you touch the green button and you support the condemnation of violence and the implementation of the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will speak very briefly because I want time to be given by Mr Guillaumes, my colleague from the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. Rivera was talking about doing politics, and I'm telling you, do politics at once, but politics of... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u128	Wait a minute, Mr. Baldoví. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u129	I'll put the thread back on. Do politics at once, but not this tracking, demagogic policy that we have experienced in the previous proposal and we are living in it, do high politics once and for all, because with this low-level tracking policy they are creating monsters that are getting on their legs. Finally, I would like citizens to condemn for once the fascist violence of the groups that are acting and that are acting in Valencia. We have never seen them condemn that violence, it would be good for them to condemn it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u131	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that it is you who are approved of Europe and it is you who defend justice. The Belgian? The German? The Swiss? Britain's? It seems not, it seems that rather those who are not homologated to Europe are you. We are in rickshaw - as a Mexican would say - there are two motions, one after the other, calling for the reimplantation of 155. Gentlemen, you're in a crazy race with PP getting more and more to the right until you find the precipice, if you haven't found it yet. What is this obsession with the monotheme? It was supposed to be us in the monotheme. Well, there's not a single week when they don't talk about Catalonia. But why? Is it the result in Spain to speak ill of a legitimate government that has legitimately won the elections? Well, it seems so, that's how they think. In Catalonia there was no blow, what there was blows, many blows. The College of Doctors - which must be a plague of separatist Bolsheviks - has certified more than a thousand wounded, gentlemen. [[Rumors.-Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio: What a joke!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u133	The College of Doctors, ladies and gentlemen, which I assume must be very partial. How many occurred on October 1st? If they mean that there was violence on 1 October, they will have to redefine the term violence. There was disobedience. They can even legitimately argue that illegal things were done, because cutting a highway and cutting a train line is illegal. You can say this is illegal, but you can't say by the hill that this is violence, because, then, I recommend you read it again, if you have ever read it, to Martin Luther King or Gandhi, because you both cut train tracks, cut highways and roads, and you're supposed to be the epithet of peaceful struggle. Therefore, say that illegalities were committed, but do not say that violence was committed, because, then, Gandhi also committed violence. This is, no more or less, what you have fallen into. I do not think it can be said with this calmness that you do that throughout October 1 the police violence was fake news, that all that was fake news, that the BBC also made fake news, making a minister ridiculous, and that, instead, on October 1 there was violence. Do you believe what you're saying? I don't think so. Gentlemen, she's already a rachita, two games to the race to see who gets to the far right first. I hope it will go well, but I assure you that most of the Catalan population this scares and proves it with their votes. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like this constant and unacceptable rumour, which I do not know if you are able to listen, to cease. Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u135	Thank you very much, President. We discussed a motion, on this occasion of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, that someone might think it is a continuation of the previous one of the People's Parliamentary Group, although it might be more likely to qualify them as twins. It is a competition to know who is most powerful with the Catalan process, both excited and stunned by a third emergent agent in his electoral calendars, by VOX. The leitmotiv of both motions is the request to the Government of the State to re-initiate the application of article 155, with a request to the President of the Generalitat. Nothing is specifically indicated to require the renewal of real breaches of the constitutional order, rather, what seems to want to be prevented is the continued existence of a sovereignist narrative from the Catalan institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, that is not what Article 155 is for, that is why we have a parliamentary majority in Parliament that will allow you and your potential partners to be invested and, thus, to be able to form a government and change the narrative that you are now criticizing for your Spanish ultranationalist, of whom the word dialogue is totally outlawed and a language that is minimally balanced and far removed from the tremendist and arguable. This also resembles the People's Party motion as two drops of water: coup, coup, weak government, rebellion, commands, hostages, occupation. This is the aroma that, in your opinion, comes out of Catalonia at this time. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we do not see it this way, and that is why we do not see, nor have we seen it in the past, the application of Article 155 of the Constitution, and not only because we do not appreciate an effective and real violation of constitutional obligations, beyond some other unfortunate verbal manifestation, but also because we do not appreciate preparations, which torment you, to re-edit what you call a coup d'état and which for us is a constitutional crisis, in large part, certainly motivated by the lack of political dialogue to address a political issue, a dialogue that was replaced by the intervention of the Catalan institutions, repression and judicialization, which has only brought us more confrontation and inflammation, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens. The Basque Parliamentary Group does not believe that dialogue, as you say, is superfluous, but that, quite the contrary - as I said in the previous speech - it is necessary to speak in order to reduce tension, it is necessary to open tables and commissions in order to normalise, and it is necessary to leave room for politics, because only from it are political conflicts reduced and led. As we have also said, we can expect something from dialogue and politics; from judicialization and repression only the prolongation of conflict and more unnecessary suffering. That is why we will not support the motion, as it urges the Government to initiate the implementation of article 155. Nor will we support it because the story that is made of the situation is so disproportionate and so exaggerated the language that is not credible. That is why it shocks us when we are told in his motion that the plans of the secessionist parties have failed and that they only raise the tension to avoid and admit such failure, and then they tell us that we must reapply 155 so that the conflict in Catalonia does not spread for more years. What are we left with, in which the process is failed or in which it is alive and in a position to live many more years? It is also shocking when Article 155 is claimed to be applied again and, in turn, it is acknowledged that - I read literally - even the application of Article 155 did not serve to lessen the complicity of the most relevant and representative Catalan institutions with separatism. So, if you recognize that article 155 was not used to resolve the situation in Catalonia, why do you again insist on such unsuccessful application? I conclude as I finished the previous intervention, pointing out that we will also not support the rest of the points of the motion, which are aimed at condemning or supporting actions or statements not attributable to the President of the Government, since the appeals and motions are institutes of impulse and control to the Government and not for other purposes, be these more or less laudable but alien to those figures. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. A preview: Today is the anniversary of the kidnapping of two friends, two comrades, two Democrats. [[Rumors]] Their names are Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u138	One moment, Mr. Rufián, one moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. If you have very important things to talk about, leave the Chamber and do it outside of it. Here, the speaker, not the rest of the Members, is the only speaker. I ask you, please, to respond to this request. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. He said today is a year after the kidnapping of two Democrats. Their names are Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart. We are convinced that your toga and seat jailers will one day sit in front of a human rights court. [[Applauds]] The truth is that, gentlemen of VOX, pardon, of Citizens, I know you perfectly, the Catalan groups know you perfectly, in Catalonia they know you perfectly because they have been eleven years, I repeat, eleven years doing exactly the same thing. [[rumors]] But it's true that there are people here who don't know them so much. In fact, there are people who when we arrived and said, "Hey! Beware! who are more right than the goat of the Legion. They said to us, "No, no, it's just that you're mad at them. And that same people is the one who says to us now: Well, yes, anyway, they were very right-wing. Therefore, as there are a lot of people who do not yet know them we have created, following this motion fake, the Citizen translate, a Citizen-Reality dictionary or Citizen-Castilian or Spanish, which you will like much more. So, so that everyone knows, thanks to this dictionary that we have created, when you say that of tackling the escalation of violence in Catalonia, we will all know, thanks to the Citizens translate, that they refer to: Let's see what else we invent to continue putting political dissent in prison. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the Citizens translate, when you speak of separatist commands - let me call them IBEX 35 commands-, everyone will know that they refer to: Let's see if the related press buys it from me and I keep selling what went so well to the People's Party for years of: everything, anything but me is ETA. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the Citizens translate, when you speak of harassment in Catalonia, everyone will know that you refer to brigades dressed in The Walking Dead with skirmishes that are dedicated with cutters to remove stellates and yellow ties. [[Show a picture]] It's these people. You, Mr. Abascal, forgive me, Mr. Rivera, who likes it so much to say puppies, these are your puppies. I wish they were anti-Zombies from The Walking Dead, but they're his people. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] When you say that paying a minimum wage of 900 euros is something - now you can talk, Mr Rivera - night off, really, thanks to the citizens translate, everyone will know that it refers to: My heads of IBEX 35 ask me to say that charging 130 000 euros a year is middle class and, instead, charging 900 euros a month is a privilege. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] In short, you will see that I have laughed during the whole intervention, but it does not make me bloody grace, because you practice the worst policy that can be practiced in this country, which is the policy of lying, and only you buy it from your like-minded media, those who call the coup player Jordi Cuixart and Lieutenant Colonel Tejero. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u141	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today is a year of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart's imprisonment; other spokespersons have already said this, but I think it is never enough to repeat it. We cannot fail to express our rejection of this unjustified prison. Mr. Rivera, these are not our words. Unwarranted prison says Amnesty International. [[Applauds]] All support and solidarity with them, with the Jordis and their families. Citizens bring us today one more motion about the conflict in Catalonia, than far from seeking solutions, what they intend to do again is to revive the fire, widen and chronize the conflict. In fact, we could say that you have already specialized in this type of initiative, you have created a whole kind of parliamentary initiative. Lucky they're so bad, no one can take them seriously anymore. But I'm not surprised. I remember her birth perfectly, I remember her perfectly. You were born in Catalonia in 2005 to oppose one language, Catalan, and the model of linguistic immersion, a model that guarantees that today in Catalonia everyone can speak two languages and that there are no language ghettos. I remember perfectly that 2005 foundational manifesto that signed characters like Arcadi Sword, because, as a linguist who firmly believes that bilingualism is a wealth, its birth seemed to me to be a terror, it seemed to me a kind of dystopic novel made reality. Speaking of dystopic novels, it has often been said - my partner, Joan Mena, has repeated it many times since this stage - that you are true pyromanians trying to set Catalonia on fire. In fact, they remind me of those firefighters from the novel Fahrenheit 451, who burned all the books to eliminate freedom and diversity. You want exactly what you want with initiatives like this... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u142	Wait a minute, Mrs. Garcia. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you again to remain silent. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u143	I repeat, what you want with initiatives like this is to burn any form of thought that is not yours, which you accuse without hesitation of violence. What they want is to end the coexistence, freedom and diversity of Catalonia, and we will not allow it. As a Catalan, I must say that I am immensely concerned that the first opposition party in Catalonia calls for a re-applying 155 the same week in which, thanks to the agreement reached by my group, Unido Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, with the Government, we have the opportunity to begin to end the institutional paralysis that our country is experiencing. I am deeply concerned, although, I insist, I am not at all surprised, because his irresponsibility in Catalonia is legendary. This irresponsibility has only one objective, which is to seek electoral revenue despite all the destruction that they leave behind. To you, the wave of hope that awakened the motion of censure has left you completely out of play, and this motion today is nothing more than a swan song that is out of tune with the historic agreement that my group has reached with the Government to get budgets that will finally return social justice to this country and that has even left you even more out of play. If you really cared about Catalonia, you would conclude this agreement today; an agreement that puts at the table 22 billion euros for Catalonia, I repeat, 22 billion so that we stop leading once and for all the rankings of shame, such as waiting lists for dependency, university fees or the price of rent. Entering his motion, there are many things that are surprising and that have not just been understood. The motion is kind of a disaster, and I don't know if you yourselves are aware of what you're saying. For example, you say that the state has long since disappeared from Catalonia. Either you are affirming that Catalonia has become independent and that it has disconnected or you have the same conception of state as your colleagues in the People's Group, that state is only what you govern, that in your case, I am sorry, but it is not much to say. Continuing with the motion, they complain about the bad performance of the Government of Torra in the face of the altercations on the anniversary of October 1, and here we agree. There was no forecast, no ratio, and furthermore, Councilman Buch lied that there were no police charges when there were. Do you know what my parliamentary group did in Catalonia? Vote in favour of Councillor Buch's reprobation. Do you know what you did? Vote with them against the reprobation of Councillor Buch. Let us return to you in Congress, to the ridiculous and grotesque role that you are playing in this House and that you are demonstrating in initiatives like this. After all that you have promised and all that you have voiced, today you have become the most useless force of the Congress of Deputies, but don't worry because while you are dedicated to removing the ties of the people of Catalonia and striving to hang with your fellow members of the Popular Party flags throughout our geography, here is a political force willing to work for budgets that raise the minimum wage to 900 euros, budgets that update pensions according to the IPC, budgets that really fight against macho violence. I'm done. In the coming weeks we will see who cares about Catalonia and its citizens, who cares about their social rights and their well-being, and who is betting on dialogue and descaling tension, on political solutions. You've already made it clear you're not. Let us hope that they will not find fellow travellers on their way to political insignificance. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u145	The truth is that when I saw, at the end of my colleague Manuel Cruz's speech, that Mr Llorens was speaking, I said to myself, "Look, Mr Llorens, he is going to defend the position in the Citizens' motion!" No! No! Seeing that momentum he was coming to the stand... Well, the truth is, the years go by, but they're the same ideas and that's why the same motions and the same position that has been defended. The truth is that when I saw Mr Rivera in his speech, I thought, because it is coherent!, first he asked that 155 not be applied and then he asked that 155 not be stopped. It is consistent with what interests him, he has defended what he believes at every moment that suits him most electorally and that is the justification for this motion: the defense of his electoral interests, not the defense of the interests of the citizens of Catalonia and Spain! And why do I tell him that? [[applause]] A year ago, the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia entered into agreements in open contradiction with the Constitution, the statute of autonomy, the regulation of the Parliament of Catalonia and judicial decisions. Last week the Bureau of Parliament voted to comply with the requests of Judge Llarena. And what did Citizens do in that vote? Stay away from Judge Llarena's request! Unlike you, we vote in favour of complying with the law. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Faced with the crossroads in which Catalonia is located - on the one hand, the law and Judge Llarena, as Puigdemont and Torra propose, and on the other, to abide by the law and the decision of Judge Llarena - what do the socialists defend? You are not and are not expected, you abstain, it is not going to be that the conflict is resolved. [[Rumors]] While you seem to prefer that you would have won the Puigdemont proposal, we fight it with the strength of our votes, that's what you vote for!, to use them!, not to abstain!, not to not present candidates!, not to not present alternatives, but to solve the problems of a country! [[Applauds]] They have settled into a false reality. It has not been last week when more than 3000 companies left Catalonia; it has not been last week when illegal consultations or referendums were held; it was not last week when the judicial commissions were hampered. This was not last week, this has happened for many months when he ruled the People's Party and received the unconditional support of Citizens!, his unconditional support! [[Applauds]] Because on September 6th and 7th, who ruled Spain?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What about October 1st?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What about October 3rd?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What about October 10th?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What about October 27th?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who ruled Spain?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Rumors.-Protests.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: You can't hear; you can't hear.]] Yes, he doesn't want to hear it because, as always, he changes his positions according to what interests him! I was ruling Rajoy with your support, Mr. Rivera! With your unconditional support! [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] The right wing of the PP and Citizens openly chooses to treat a matter of state as part of an electoral program. Independence is bewildered, but PP and Citizens are following their ball, because their partisan fight is more important - yes, the fight between you - than facing with responsibility a conflict that will define the country's future. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] To appeal to the virtue of the prudence of the Spanish right is a toast to the sun. The Spanish right has settled in the authoritarian wave that runs around the world and that's why things go as they go. Mr. Rivera dreams of 155, there's no day to not claim it! Someone would think that in Catalonia the eight-second republic has been declared for the second time or that a new referendum has been called when the only new thing is the fight between Puigdemont and Junqueras. They're talking about Catalonia for talking, for covering its media share. To independence, in his Cainite fight, only an external threat like 155 can unite him. Are you, Citizens and the PP, the only agglutinating factor of independence, haven't you noticed?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] They're divided because for the only thing that independence wasn't prepared for, you know what it was for? For dialogue! [[Rumors.-Protests]] As soon as the Socialist Government has offered them dialogue, the cracks have come out. Mr. Rivera, you are the cement of independence! His motion is not the result of things getting worse in Catalonia, except that he believes that the fact that you won the autonomic elections made the situation in Catalonia worse because of his inability to present his government proposal. Their motion is because they used to support the PP and shut up!, and now we govern socialists and things are getting better. But no matter how much Mr. Casado and you Spanish citizens try... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker's turn. Go on, Mr. Zaragoza.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u147	Thank you very much. The Spanish citizens will not forget that we are where we are for seven years Mr Rajoy; that if I had depended on you, gentlemen of Citizens, there would be many more, many more! Because you opposed the motion of censure. [[Applauds]] I hope you will change and, instead of starting the conflict, help the solution. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz and Mr. Villegas Pérez: Elections, elections!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Llorens Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u149	Thank you very much, President. Mr Zaragoza, you are a chollo, you are a calamity. But how can you insult the citizens of Lleida?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The only province in which the PSOE had no seat in the last general election was in Lleida, and I'm not surprised! With speeches like yours, how are you going to vote in Lleida for parties like yours?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] You're a mess. I prefer the company of those who want to defend the unity of Spain, the State, democracy and the Constitution than of those who, in exchange for votes, with 84 deputies, in an indecent presentation of a motion of censure, have occupied power and have to pay prices that they want to hide and are paying them! [[rumors]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u150	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u151	Gentlemen like you, who are a shame for Lleida, for Catalonia and for Spain... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u152	Wait a minute, Mr. Llorens. Ladies and gentlemen, during Mr Zaragoza's speech I asked for your speaking time to be respected. Now I'm going to ask you exactly the same thing. [[Rumors.-Protests.-Mr.Sicilia Alferez: You're insulting!]] Respect this presidency. If you have to ask for a speaking time or because you feel that you are entitled to the Rules of Procedure, ask for it properly, but respect the speaker's speaking time. It is the same thing that I have asked all the groups during all the speeches and I will now ask for it also, exactly the same. Go on, Mr. Llorens.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u153	Thank you, President. As a Catalan and as a Spanish, my surprise is to be told that now in Catalonia we are better. And who's better? The independenceists are better off and they're better off just for one thing, because you're in the government. And you think you're better because you're in government. You are in a government with 84 deputies, which depends on the Communists of Podemos, the Filoetatras of Bildu, and which has to comply with what the coup and the independenceists demand. [[protests]] [[protests]] [[Protests Continue]] And now there are hidden bills that you have to pay for those supports. Mr. Sánchez - who isn't here - could anyone have thought that you could have been president for free? The independenceists are better because they are still in their own way, they have their plan drawn up, they open embassies, they have money and, if not, they are looking for it - in Lleida it is no longer 3 percent, it is 8 percent; these things stand out because we do not have an independent Catalonia -. They are better because they take over public space, cut down streets, roads and roads, storm the Parliament and squeeze so hard that even the agitator has to go out the back door and the mossos have to take refuge in the Parliament. They do what they want! And there is the amazing celebration, unpunished and autumnal, of a coup d'état. Can anyone deny what we're seeing and what's obvious? Yes, we see what pacifism is, the pacifism of the process: independence through disobedience and violence. And we also know what the right to decide means, what you voted here, the PSC. Or didn't you vote for it in Congress? Because they, the independenceists, said that the process was democratic, but democracy is based on three pillars. First, the enforcement of laws, and they don't even comply with theirs. The second, the separation of powers, and you are required to support the budgets that put their hands on prosecutors and order judges. The third pillar is to vote, to vote as they please and with laws that do not reflect the majority. What is an absolute defachation, Mr Zaragoza - they have not been able to choose worse spokesman than you - are their accusations... [[Protests.-Laughter.]] Put it on for me. Come to Lleida in the next general election. I have eight elections, I am eight times a deputy for Lleida, some more than you for Barcelona. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] What is an absolute defeat is his accusations of disloyalty to the People's Party. We are waiting for you, Socialists and Citizens. We were loyal to seek the constitutional consensus when applying the 155 and did not intervene TV3; when this deputy Manuel Cruz had said that TV3 has become, without the slightest indecentness, the belt of transmission of the independenceists. [[Shows a press clipping.-Protests]] Did you say that or am I making it up? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u154	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u155	And we called elections because he asked us to and demanded from us citizens. We were loyal to constitutionalism, but the truth is that the Catalans and the Spanish live worse because before we were three and now we are two. You have abandoned the constitutional bloc and now you are, because you depend on your votes, on those who repudiate the king and want to end the 1978 Transition, with those who want to break Spain, with those who lead us to ruinous budgets and recession. [[Applauds]] To Mr Tardà I have a lot of sympathy because when he comes to Lleida he says that Mr Llorens is incombustible and correct, it is true. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-Applause.]] It says that it will not repair in means - and it is also true - to achieve independence, that among them it is to obtain sufficient fat, that in Lleida it has already reached 8%, which has caused the resignation of the president of the Chamber, requested by you, requested by you and that in an independent Catalonia, without separation of powers, would not have been achieved. Do not ask us loyalty, Mrs Calvo - you are not here - or Mrs Batet - you are not here either. Don't ask us for loyalty to disloyalty. And please don't keep making mistakes because in the end we're going to have to find each other again because there are some barriers, that of the 155 red line and other barriers. We are more - and in that Mr Tardà is also right - those who do not want to break up and those who are less can no longer be fought. [[Rumors]] So, I would ask that we be able to rebuild what most people are asking for and that we will see in the upcoming elections, in those to which Dr. Sánchez committed when he said here - although he doesn't tell the truth or the doctor, but, well, it's the same - he promised to call elections - now he wants them by 2020 or 2030 or I don't know when - and he wanted transparency. Transparency is already being seen in the form of prices for the invoices of those who have supported it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u156	Mr. Llorens, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u157	Thank you so much for your understanding. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u158	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u159	I want to say one thing, if I may, because it's very important.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u160	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u161	Mr Sánchez, you are a political prisoner of the imprisoned politicians. [[Several Members: Oh!]] He cannot continue to preside over Spain. Thank you very much, President, because you have shown the same flexibility... [[Rumors.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u162	Thank you very much. Your shift is over, Mr. Llorens. [[Mrs Lastra Fernández asked for the floor.]] Tell me, Mrs. Lastra. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u163	Mr President, pursuant to Rule 71 and on the understanding that this Parliament is not worth everything, I would ask the spokesman of the People's Party who has just spoken to me to withdraw the insults and disqualifications to the spokesman of the Socialist Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u164	Mrs Lastra, I ask you to give me concrete evidence of what insults or disqualifications you are referring to.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u165	Among other things, shameless, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u166	All right. Thank you very much. Mr. Llorens... [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence and respect. Mr Llorens, do you withdraw the reference to which the spokesman for the Socialist Group has referred?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u167	He laughs a lot because he's very nervous...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u168	I'm just asking you to tell me if you take it off or not. It is not a new turn of intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u169	No, I don't take it back. I said they had no shame, and I keep saying it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u170	All right, thank you very much. After the debate on the last item on the agenda, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Before we begin voting, we will make an institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies on the occasion of the International Day of the Child 2018. Madam First Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies on the occasion of the International Day of the Child 2018. The plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting today, adopted the following institutional declaration on the occasion of the International Day of the Child held on 11 October: The deputies who represent Spanish citizens in the Congress call for the creation of mechanisms for the effective and effective participation of girls and young women in accordance with SDG 5 and target 5.5 B of the 2030 Agenda, which affects the need to ensure the full and effective participation of women and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. The Congress of Deputies regrets that still today girls and women suffer violations of their rights that nullify their power and subject them to all kinds of violence and abuse. However, this situation can change, provided that girls and young women are supported to participate, influence, build and lead change without fear or discrimination. Ways of participation must be established in all structures so that girls and young women can be agents of change, participate in decision-making and have the capacity to influence in order to eradicate the injustices they suffer. All citizenship would benefit from a world in which girls and young women were protagonists of change; humanity would not advance until they could develop their full potential. In order to achieve this, it is essential not only to create mechanisms for participation, education and training, but also to have women's representatives. Young girls and women need to see that their peers lead any sector, from politics to the business sector, through the media. In the case of politics, it is also a democratic requirement: institutions represent the people only if they resemble the society they serve. The Congress of Deputies also recognizes that, in order for women and young women to participate effectively and effectively, it is necessary to create decision-making spaces in which girls and young women can participate, be visible, heard and valued equally. For this reason, we call on the Spanish Government and all national institutions, the economic and financial sector, the media, the third sector, civil society and the entire international community as a whole to promote the following: Transformative education that teaches girls and young women that their ideas, realities and views matter as well as those of boys and men; policies, practices and laws that promote youth activism and ensure that young women can lead any sector and eradicate all forms of gender-based violence, so that girls and women can exercise their power and influence, and live in freedom. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u174	We begin the voting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to ensure equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in employment and occupation. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 plus 2 telematics votes, 346; 343 plus 2 telematics votes, 345; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u175	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the organ for the reform of the Organization Act 5/1985 of 19 June 1985 of the General Electoral Regime, for the amendment of the provisions relating to the elections. [[File number 122/00267]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u176	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Organic Congress for the reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, for the amendment of the provisions relating to municipal elections. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 plus 2 telematics votes, 347; 138; 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u177	Therefore, it is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u178	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning guaranteeing the freedom of families to choose the type of education and the educational centre they want for their children. We're going to vote for points. Firstly, we voted on points 2, 5, 6 and 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 180 against, 164 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u179	They are approved. The remaining points of this non-legislative proposal. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 166 against, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u180	The rest of the points are rejected. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States-in-Commonwealth may in Marea, concerning the creation of a public banking centre. [[File number 162/000548]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u181	We now turn to the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the creation of a public banking pole. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 79 against, 179 abstentions, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u182	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u183	We now vote on the motions resulting from the interpellations. Let us vote, first of all, ladies and gentlemen, on the motion for an urgent debate by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, on the investment policy which the Government intends to promote in Catalonia. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 89 against, 169 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u184	It's rejected. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, TO THE SUBJECT OF KNOWING WHAT IS THE COMMITMENT OF THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY WITH THE DEFENCE OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION AND WHAT RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS PRESENT TO LIMIT. [[File number 173/000111]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u185	We now vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, in order to know what is the commitment of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality with the defence of the Spanish Constitution and what rights and freedoms it intends to limit. We voted on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour 168 against 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u186	It's rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON GOVERNMENT POLICIES TO PREVENT AND AFFECT THE SCALE OF VIOLENCE IN CATALUNIA. [[File number 173/000112]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u187	We now vote on the motion following an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on government policies aimed at preventing and curbing the escalation of violence in Catalonia. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour 167 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-16-CD181016.u188	It's rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and fifty minutes of the night.
