ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u1	We start with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 1/2018 of 23 March, which extends to 2018 the destination of the surplus of local corporations for financially sustainable investments and modifies the objective scope of these investments. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Government brings to the Congress of Deputies for validation the Royal Decree-Law 1/2018 of 23 March, which extends for this year the possibility that local entities can allocate part of their surplus to make financially sustainable investments and changes the objective scope of these investments. As you know, these investments can be made by local entities which have a sound financial situation and which have an average payment period equal to or less than the maximum period laid down in the legislation on late payment. The content of this royal decree-law has the virtue that it allows local entities to make certain investments that improve the provision of public services to citizens and that do so without prejudice to their financial situation, which is essential for the smooth running of the economy and to ensure the future viability of the public services it provides. This royal decree-law also has the value of being born after a dialogue, a sincere, loyal and constructive negotiation between the Government and the local entities themselves, protagonists of these investments, represented by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. That is why I would like to begin today by thanking from this rostrum the cooperation, the disposition of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, its president, its vice-president and especially the members of its board of directors. They are all councillors of different municipalities with different ideologies, which put the interests of municipalities and provinces before them with a deep sense of municipalism at the service of the common good, of the general interests of the State. These two values, which I would also like to claim today in this House as Minister of Finance and Public Service, are those that have made possible the agreement and approval of this royal decree-law and are the values that have made it possible for local authorities to have been so actively involved in these years in reducing the deficit of all public administrations, while at the same time making an essential collaboration in the provision of the essential public services that the neighbours of the cities and towns throughout Spain receive. As you know, the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability states as a general rule that the surplus achieved by the various public administrations must be aimed at reducing the level of net indebtedness. The reduction of public debt is one of the main needs facing our economy, following the deficit reduction effort that we have experienced over the years, and is therefore also one of the Government's main priorities for the coming years, with the aim of further strengthening the foundations on which our economic recovery is based. However, on the basis of this general rule, the Government already established in 2014 as an exceptional measure that local entities could also allocate part of their surplus to financially sustainable investments. Why did we do it? For a very easy reason to understand and accept. As early as 2012, local entities had complied, with exceptions, with the guidelines set by the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability to clean up their public accounts, reducing to the point of making their deficit disappear and hence beginning to reduce their level of indebtedness. In fact, as I have just pointed out, municipalities and parliaments have played a leading role in the battle we have waged over the past few years in reducing the deficit. They were not only the first Administration to achieve this goal, but since 2012 they have achieved successive surpluses that have been fundamental, first, for their own financial stability and to protect the viability of their public services, but, at the same time, have contributed decisively to reducing the overall deficit of Spanish public administrations and that today, in 2017, we have been able to comply strictly with our stability commitments with the European Union. It has been possible to achieve and maintain this budgetary surplus situation thanks to the management and consolidation effort made and which was particularly important in 2012, but also thanks to the aid provided, launched by the Government of Spain, and the adoption of a regulatory framework oriented towards the control of expenditure and budgetary stability that has forced all levels of public administration. The exceptional financing mechanisms we put in place provided liquidity for local entities from 2012 to 2018 to make use of these mechanisms worth EUR 19,574,8 million. For the most part, 11 595 million has been allocated directly to paying more than 2 million invoices from almost 4000 municipalities that owed some 124 000 suppliers, bills that had deorbited the commercial debt of local corporations and endangered the present and future of many companies, of a great deal of self-employment and also of large public service providers as essential as lighting, lighting, garbage collection or water supply and sanitation. The money from the various funds, which has already been distributed, amounts to EUR 14,375.4 million with which local entities have been able to support the provision of basic public services and have been able to save an estimated amount of EUR 1070 million in interest. The largest liquidity injection of EUR 10,854 million took place in 2012 and was a great relief for the entities and their suppliers, many of which, as I said, were experiencing major survival difficulties. These mechanisms facilitated by the State were decisive for a return to the situation of municipal finances, as was also decisive for the decision by the Government of Spain to exceptionally raise the IBI to the most valuable properties of all the municipalities of Spain, a decision that could perfectly not have been made by the Government, could have corresponded to each local corporation, and that we assumed and adopted in this House precisely because we understood from the very first moment that thousands of municipalities, provincial parliaments, island councils and lobbyists were fundamental to the return of their public finances and thus offered our country the basis of budgetary stability that we needed so much. The state's collaboration was, as I said, decisive for a return to the situation of municipal finances, which went from a deficit of 0.39% of GDP in 2011 to a budget surplus of 0.32% in 2012, and 0.55% in 2013, a fiscal consolidation effort of more than EUR 10 billion, which, by the way, ended in a plumage with all that debate over whether our local administration was oversized and whether 4000 municipalities had to be closed in Spain. No city hall in Spain has been closed today. They are all open, they are all providing their public services and they are all establishing the democratic representation of those who have received the confidence of the vote in the last municipal elections held in 2015 in our country. Where are all those prophets of reducing our public deficit? Where are those who advocated the closure of administrative and political structures that are essential for the provision of public services? Today we must be concerned precisely on the contrary: about the depopulation that many of them suffer, about the loss of population they have and against which we must be able to react not only with government initiatives, but with initiatives by this House to respond to that challenge. There are no municipalities, no island councils, no island lobbying, what is left is inefficiency in the management of public services; that is what is left. What's left is the mentality of rulers who only understand that governing is spending more every year; that's what's left in this country. What we have before us is quite the opposite: thousands of healthy municipalities, thousands of municipalities without public debt, thousands of municipalities that are giving an example of responsibility and good governance to Spain and the rest of the world. There is no doubt that this would not be possible without the list of rules adopted during the X Legislature, ranging from the Budget Stability Act to the Electronic Bill Act, through the law that prevents the generation of commercial debts or the State Contracts Act itself, which very recently, and with the support of all political groups, was adopted in this Congress of Deputies. All this makes local corporations today, in addition to offering us the example of surplus and a very low level of public debt, also a benchmark of transparency, good management and therefore of effectiveness in the fight against corruption. Corruption has nothing to do with the number of existing or open administrations, but with the procedures that manage those interests and the attitudes of those who have the responsibility to manage them. In sum, all those financing mechanisms have achieved a significant reduction in the financial costs of loans formalised with financing funds, which increased from an initial interest rate of 5.9 % for loans formalised in the summer of 2012 - a very high interest rate - to 1,002 % for those formalised in 2017. The municipalities that hosted the vendor payment mechanism and the extraordinary measures approved in 2013 for entities with financial problems have multiplied their gross savings by thirteen times - i.e. their ability to finance their current expenditures with their current revenues -, increased their non-financial balance by more than €200 million by changing the sign of this magnitude and reduced by half their negative cash balance for general expenses. In addition, within these initiatives to assist municipalities, the Government offered greater flexibility to local corporations to return the amount of negative liquidations that had been overfunded since the overestimation of State revenue in 2008 and 2009. About 3000 local entities took advantage of this possibility, so that 2585 have extended the period of reinstatement from 60 to 120 monthly instalments and 339 have it to 108 monthly instalments. In addition, we made regulatory changes to increase municipal revenues through the property tax: only between 2012 and 2013, the years in which the great consolidation effort had to be made, these changes in the IBI, to which I referred earlier, meant an increase in revenue of almost EUR 25 billion. I offer all this list of data and this reminder of the effectiveness of the rules adopted by this House in the past to highlight the value of dialogue and cooperation between administrations and between institutions to improve the present and future of Spain and the Spanish. We have a legislature, and today it is one more step, where we are adopting norms from dialogue, from understanding, from understanding, from mutual respect, and therefore the Government cannot understand that in this legislature there are some analysts who continually describe it as political paralysis. The example we bring today with the adoption of this rule. What will they call politics if it is not politics to start the legislature with agreements that led to the major correction of the public deficit of our history, after that of 2012, with agreements that gave rise to the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017; with agreements that have been carried out for historical increases of the minimum interprofessional wage with the social agents, with the unions and with the Spanish Confederation of Business Organizations; with agreements that we have been able to develop with the unions of the Public Service and that we have embodied in the draft law of the General Budgets of the State, which is already in this House; with agreements, as we bring today, with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces that completely surpass the ideologies, because there, in that board of directors, in that representation of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, are sitting all the ideologies that have responsibility of government in Spain; with agreements, therefore, that are the ones that are marking the making of a legislature that is embodied in an economic recovery and in the creation of employment, it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is a matter. That is why we are all here, the government, the political formations, so that there will be more and more prosperity, more employment opportunities, and that, in a legislature of our characteristics, can only be done from the understanding, from the dialogue, from the agreements, which are the ones marking, marking this legislature. That's politics, that's politics. I don't know what policies others are talking about, who say they don't need to do politics. If making policies is to adopt rules that ruin a country, that destroy employment, that lead to the bankruptcy of the administrations and that lead those administrations not to pay the suppliers, if that is what they call doing policies we will leave that policy behind and we will continue to bring into this legislature the other policy, which, I insist, they cannot do unless it is from the agreement, from the responsibility of the Government with the social formations and with the groups in this House. [[applause]] That is the value of dialogue and cooperation, which has to be based on the Government's recognition of the excellent work that municipalism has done in Spain, our local entities, reaching in 2017 a surplus of 0.6 % of gross domestic product, a figure very similar to that already achieved in 2016, in terms of surplus, of the order of 68 billion euros. Therefore, it is a figure that has contributed - I insist - to the reduction of the entire public deficit of our country, which means that it has contributed to the improvement of the financing of the economic recovery because I must not remember that the creation of employment materializes in the Spanish municipalities; that is where employment is being created and that is where economic activity is recovering. That is why there is also an improvement in the income of these municipalities, which is what makes it possible to apply strictly the Law on Budgetary Stability and, in particular, the expenditure rule that has the surplus that is being recorded; a surplus that, of course, the Government values, considers very positive and congratulates the authors of that surplus, who are the municipal managers, those responsible for those municipalities, those who have the option to govern and those who exercise the opposition in those municipalities, for that surplus, which is indeed an objective achieved among all and which, of course, has also led to debt reduction, in municipal terms, at very low levels. The indebtedness of our local corporations in 2017 was 2.5% of gross domestic product; 2.5% of gross domestic product, which means that more than four thousand municipalities have no debt in Spain; no debt in Spain. That half the spectrum doesn't have debt, anyway, is a great aspiration really, and I think we have to put it in value for everything it means. I would like to recall that this has meant a debt reduction of some EUR 15 047 million in five years since 2012. In the light of this explanation, I would also like to recall that, precisely in the draft General Budgets of the State, we have incorporated the precept that our autonomous communities, which are also - fortunately more and more - in budgetary surplus and in strict compliance with the rules of budgetary stability, should be able to use that surplus in the same figure in financially sustainable investment. That is what the State General Budgets Bill contains. It also contains the authorization to the Government to restructure the debt, which will help the municipalities that still have problems, and also to restructure and postpone the outstanding negative liquidations that the municipalities have with the Government of Spain, with the General Administration of the State. These are the powers contained in the General Budgets of the State and these powers are one more reason for the budgets to be approved promptly by this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that in the case of financially sustainable investments, it is a question of avoiding the generation of future non-financial expenditure that can be sources of deficit. In addition, in order to prevent this future emergence of deficit, the amount intended to finance investments of that nature is limited to the surplus expected to be obtained in the year in which the investment is carried out. On the other hand, the non-financial expenditure incurred in those investments does not count in the expenditure rule, which can mean a significant margin of action for local corporations. The allocation of the surplus to finance the above-mentioned investments should be extended annually, preferably by the State's General Budgets themselves. But on this occasion, the delay in its processing has made it advisable for the Government to adopt this royal decree-law, so that local entities can have more time to launch their investment projects. In addition, this Royal Decree-Law allows at least the phase of expenditure authorisation to be implemented in 2018 instead of authorisation and commitment available, which could be carried out in 2019 together with the phase of recognition of the obligation and payment planning. However, the most innovative part of this royal decree-law is also the one that responds directly to the need expressed by local entities to make more intensive and effective use of the surplus that has been made of these years, expanding the scope in which they can be made. I must also say that the figure of financially sustainable investment has not been fully used in all its possibilities in past years, which also gives reason for us to bring into the content of the decree-law the result of the discussions held with the representatives of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, where there has been talk about how to make more intensive use of the investment possibility that local entities have at their disposal. From that point on, we have been working to broaden the scope of the clusters of programmes in which financially sustainable investments can be made, so that local entities have greater capacity to make investments that lead to improved delivery of essential services to the community, which will allow for greater growth capacity in the medium term without adversely affecting the stability of public accounts. Thus, following the adoption of this Royal Decree-Law, financial and sustainable investments in the provision of security and public order services, civil protection and fire prevention and extinguishment, primary social assistance, the establishment and operation of educational centres for children, primary and special education, libraries and archives, investments in cultural equipment and museums and sports facilities are considered. They also include, as such, investments in furniture and premises intended for services that are already classified as recipients of such investments, as well as vehicles intended for the provision of public services for the collection, disposal and treatment of waste, safety and public order, civil protection, fire prevention and extinguishment and passenger transport. Also, this royal decree-law, which we submit to the validation of the House, gives greater facilities to local entities to make investments without the need to request administrative authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Public Service. To this end, the amount from which certain investments are subject to authorisation or as an alternative amounting to 40 % of non-financial expenditure is increased from EUR 10 million to EUR 15 million, which means greater autonomy for municipalities and parliaments. In addition, in order to apply for authorisation, these investments should increase the expenditure of Chapters 1 or 2, associated with the investment. To conclude my speech, I would also like to recall that this royal decree-law with which the Government demonstrates its commitment to local entities is part of a broader set of measures, including the extraordinary funding granted through the additional funding mechanisms to local entities and the current process of reforming the local funding system, in parallel with the reform of autonomous financing. Specifically, the Government Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs agreed on 25 January to allocate €577.2 million for this year to the Financing Fund for Local Entities, from which 168 municipalities will benefit. Of this money, a maximum of $467.8 million is allocated to the Ordination Fund compartment, which includes 142 entities with some kind of financial risk and 194 million to the Economic Impulse Fund for 26 financially sound entities. In addition, the draft General Budgets of the State, whose approval is in the hands of this House, includes the financing of local entities in the amount of 18,230 million euros, in application of the current framework, which means an increase of 1.4% over 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the Government defends this royal decree-law from the satisfaction that it implies having negotiated it with the local authorities themselves, to which I would like once again to express the Government's appreciation for the management effort made under the budget stability laws. I would also like to reiterate the value of the dialogue between different political forces with the aim of taking forward the most important issues for the country's good progress, for overcoming the economic crisis and for improving the well-being of its citizens. That is why the Government is calling on the House to validate this royal decree-law, because its content is very important for municipalities, parliaments, lobbyists and island councils, who want to improve the provision of essential public services for the community while protecting the financial stability of local finances, a fundamental basis for the future sustainability of the provision of such services. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke in the position-setting session by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, of course the Canary Coalition is going to validate this decree, but it does not seem enough to us, because it must be said that the non-compliance of the state... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u6	The municipalities of this country, the 8,000 municipalities, with their surplus, and the autonomous communities have saved the non-compliance of the State. And, as the mayor of Tacoronte - a small municipality in Tenerife - said very well at the assembly of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, neighbors cannot understand that a city council has millions of euros in its current account and, however, cannot cope with employment plans, housing policy, equality policy and so many social services. We also believe that the majority of municipal debt in this country has two municipalities - by the way, managed for more than fifteen or twenty years by the People's Party - which have 80% of municipal debt. In that sense, we believe that it is a step forward, but that it is not enough and that, in addition, the positive remaining treasury of previous exercises should be allowed to be used. Mr Minister, congratulations and adjustments must not be made to municipal corporations, because the adjustment is done by citizens. What I find regrettable - I tell you from my experience, and if not, look at the media - is that when a mayor meets the spending rule and has surplus there are people from his party in the opposition who accuse the mayor of having surplus while the citizens are having it wrong. I believe that the possibility of using it should be broadened, as I say, for employment plans, equality policies, housing policies and so many things. Good municipal governance is a good thing for this country but not to cover the shortcomings of a government that has increased the deficit and failed to meet the expenditure rule. The important thing is the citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. The content of this royal decree-law is important for local entities so that those with surpluses can commit financially sustainable investments before the draft State General Budgets Act is passed. The Minister of Finance has emphasized that the measures envisaged are the product of a process of dialogue with the FEMP and that they have its endorsement, but in Forum, as our senator pointed out yesterday in the control session to the Government in the Upper House, we believe that we need to take a step further to reform the regulations that currently limit the capacity of spending and recruitment to our municipalities. I repeat it here tomorrow: formulas are necessary to make the application of the spending rule more flexible when there is a surplus, a product of good municipal governance, with balanced accounts to be able to face investments and attend public services without needing to resort to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u10	... the debt procedures which, paradoxically, are allowed to the Autonomous Communities and the State Administration itself to finance the current expenditure, something with which Forum does not agree. I also say this from a party that voted against the reform of Article 135, because without the need for that great constitutional change in Spain we already knew how to promote stability, correct the deficit, make laws and reach pacts to face critical situations such as those we also suffered at the beginning of the century. You, Mr. Montoro, were a co-protagonist of those remarkable achievements. To date, we are seeing a gradual advance in our economy and that is precisely why it is timely to develop measures to allow the revision of the calculation of the expenditure rule, taking as a reference the final budget and not the obligations recognized, thus avoiding the problems caused by the lack of budget implementation in each financial period. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, indeed, this royal decree that you bring here to validate - which, by the way, we will be voting for - makes it more flexible and more attractive for corporations to invest. Now, from the Union of the Navarro People we have to tell you that we are going in line with the demand made to you by the President of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in terms of greater flexibility than that which has been brought here today, for three basic reasons, Minister: firstly, because the local corporations in this economic crisis have given us a lesson to the other levels of power, both to the autonomous and to the central, in terms of efficiency; secondly, because we must reward, but in real and pragmatic terms, the municipalities, those responsible for public administration in local entities and in the municipalities; and thirdly, because we must also transfer that prize to the citizens and to the neighbours, because they have suffered these cuts and have seen their infrastructures or their public services deteriorated, the competences of the local entities, and today is the time to invest in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u13	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u14	Egun on. Contrary to the actual decree for which the Government requests our support, the municipalities should not be subject to State guardianship in order to allocate their budget surplus to make investments; on the contrary, they need to stop treating them as incapable or immature. This royal decree seeks an extension of the Budget Stability Act, which is a frontal attack on municipal competences, their autonomy and, in many cases, their existence. Local entities do not need small changes in State control, when in many cases they have demonstrated better management of their resources. The positive results, the healthy accounts that many municipalities present are not the result of this law, respond to the responsible action in the management. What local entities need is to be able to dispose of their resources to implement policies that best respond to the particular reality they have, which, by the way, prevents them from doing so. Defending the economic and financial power of the institutions closest to citizenship requires the repeal of this law and not its extension by royal decree. Therefore, it will not count on our support, since it weakens the municipal autonomy, more if it is possible in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa for their own competences for their self-organization, and ultimately because it also punishes citizens, preventing the implementation of policies for the benefit of social cohesion, the productive fabric and economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the journalistic holder who will derive from the validation of this decree-law will be: The government leads the municipal surplus. But this is a surplus that has been achieved by the municipalities themselves, not by the State, improving their income through their good management, and this is obviously surprising, because whoever decides what the money is intended for is not the one who has achieved it, but by the State Government, which is assigning powers that seem exorbitant to us. The government controls the municipalities, opening and closing the tap when it considers, and this conceptual framework is what we cannot share. The municipalities of change are saving the face of the central government in Europe, a government that imposes rules, but which, contradictoryly, does not meet them when it comes to it; a government that fails to meet the deficit target that its municipalities do meet. Is this possible? It seems pretty shocking to us. We are going to vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law because we understand the urgency of our municipalities to have money that is theirs, that they have generated with their efforts, but obviously we do not agree with the control of the State of local autonomy, we do not agree with this new wave of re-centralisation and, of course, we do not share the use of certain competitive titles of the Constitution to protect this right that the State is attributed to open and close the faucet, because we understand that this does not happen. As I said, we will vote in favour, but we will do so with our noses covered, hoping that soon there will be a change in which the people of color, the first division of politics that comes from municipalities such as Madrid, Barcelona or Valencia, will also be put at the forefront of state management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, telegraph: We are going to vote in favour, but it is absolutely insufficient and you know it; it is insufficient in relation to the needs of municipalities and municipalities and it is insufficient in terms of their commitments. One reflection: I do not know whether you, your Government or even this House have the moral authority to condition the investments of the municipalities, the municipalities. We'll process the budgets in a few days. Minister, can you guarantee that all investments in the State General Budgets are financially sustainable? Can you guarantee that AVE stations in villages of 30 inhabitants and districts of 1500 inhabitants are financially sustainable? For you are demanding from the municipalities what you do not apply. A second reflection, Minister: the rule of spending. You committed yourself already three years ago, within the National Commission of Local Administration, to making the application of the expenditure rule more flexible and change, and you have not complied. You also committed to changing the financing of local corporations three years ago, and you have not fulfilled it. They will have our support in decrees that will improve, even if it is modest or significantly, the capacity and municipal autonomy, but we will require them to fulfil their commitments and allow local corporations, which have saved the Spanish state from failing to meet their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u19	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u20	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, our group will support the validation of this royal decree-law, on the one hand, because the Government has heard in part the demands made by the FEMP in this regard and, on the other, because it gives some flexibility to local administrations, since they will be able to allocate their surplus to finance financially sustainable investments over the useful life of the investment, not counting the expenditure on such investments for the purpose of applying the expenditure rule defined in Article 12 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, but for the purpose of meeting the objective of budgetary stability. This time it is more flexible, if possible, than that granted from 2014, because the catalogue of the definition of financially sustainable investments is expanded, and it also responds to the efforts made by the municipalities to achieve a sound financial situation. They are the ones who, ultimately, have the capacity to influence the well-being of citizens because of their proximity, and will be able to make investments in educational, cultural, waste management and security infrastructures that are reflected in the Royal Decree-Law and, ultimately, reinvest the surplus of which they have in policies for people. Although programmes for the implementation of financially sustainable investments are being expanded, we must say that this is only a temporary remedy; it is better than nothing, but that what is really needed is a relaxation of the spending rule, which the Government has also committed itself to studying. And it is that we are faced with a rule that acts as a mechanism that causes detrimental effects on the spending capacity of administrations that are mostly healed, such as municipalities. In addition, it is the local government that has complied with the budgetary balance imposed on it, and has demonstrated it with that surplus in its accounts, a sign of good management and governance. We have been shown to be mature enough for the management of their resources, so there would be no need for guardianship by the higher administrations. Therefore, relaxing the conditions of the spending rule and the fate of the eventual surplus to amortize debt is good, because the scenario that marks the organic law that we have mentioned is too rigid. The expenditure rule can serve as a guide tool, and its reform does not mean not maintaining budgetary stability, as we understand that the debt of any Administration must be kept in a sustainable margin to ensure that it has adequate resources. I must remind the Government once again that the surplus of local governments is the one that is being decisive in achieving the budgetary stability objectives committed to Europe, since they are also compensating for the breaches of the central administration and social security, thus imposing certain rules that others fail to comply with. In short, we will vote, as I said at the beginning of my speech, in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, because it resolves in part the paralysis in which there were many municipalities that have closed their accounts with surplus, because it is an agreement with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, although, as I have already said throughout my speech, what is needed is a deep reflection on the role and meaning of the rule of expenditure, which obliges to allocate all the surplus to the early amortization of debt, limiting - we believe - unnecessarily the decisions of expenditure of the local administrations, an expenditure that also results in the dynamism of economic activity and in the improvement of the well-being of citizens because it is the institution that is closest to people. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u21	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u22	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to denounce again from this rostrum that there are political prisoners in Spain, that there are people exiled to fulfil the democratic mandate of the ballot boxes and that the right to protest is eventually called terrorism. Minister, good morning. Today you again, presenting this royal decree, show that you do not actually have budgets and that for the moment, that you know, you only have the immediate and clear support of your right, Citizens. This means that there is an inability in this House and therefore in those who have the most immediate and direct obligation to dialogue, because they represent the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. This royal decree comes late and bad. It is late, as I said, because it shows that there are no budgets; because it significantly harms municipalities, local corporations, which have planned their budgets and, therefore, already know how they should allocate the revenues they have; and because it does not cover all the needs that local corporations have, which thus cannot respond to all the needs of citizens. You, as I said, are implementing the extension of the rules that allow part of the surplus to be allocated to implement financially sustainable investments, as has been done in recent years through the respective budget laws. It is true that you incorporate in this royal decree a novelty in point 2o, which expands the list of budget programmes subject to be considered financially sustainable, but always restricted to the field of investment. I remind you that the only advantage of classifying an investment as financially sustainable is that it does not compute for the purposes of the expenditure rule, nothing more. Therefore, this transfer is clearly insufficient given the structural surplus situation that the municipalities are accumulating. Let us remember that we have been accumulating these surpluses for more than five consecutive years and it is foreseeable that with the data we handle in 2017 the surplus will be even greater. I was saying, Mr Montoro, Minister, that your proposal is clearly insufficient and does not solve the problem or the origin of the problem, which is the Budget Stability Act itself. [[The lady]] We are in favour of those measures that can give flexibility to the municipalities in the face of the current rigidity and, therefore, we propose that the royal decree can be treated as a bill, so that it can be amended in the sense and manner that I will put to you. One: that the investment corresponds to any of the programme groups listed in Annex I to the order approving the structure of the budgets of local authorities, which reflects the expenditure programmes of the budget of local authorities and their autonomous bodies beyond their proposal for a limited list of programmes. Two: that, exceptionally, they may also be used to cover expenditure which does not correspond to Chapter 6 of the budget, provided that they do not lead to an increase in structural expenditure, i.e. that they are expenditure applicable to a specific financial year and which correspond to the following programme groups: promoting employment and primary social assistance. We do not want the ability to allocate the surplus only to investments to be restricted. In the current context, municipalities also need - and have done so at the time - to boost social investments as necessary as social services or occupational policies. Does the minister believe that they have neither the ability nor the chance to do it right? They've done it in past times and they could do it right now. You know that to solve the root problem it would be necessary to amend the Budget Stability Act itself by means of an organic law that was in line with amending its article 32, destination of the budget surplus, so that those municipalities that have a debt volume of less than 75% are not exposed to all the conditions of debt reduction and of financially sustainable investments. Furthermore, it should be made clear that all surplus-financed expenditure and not constituting an increase in structural expenditure did not compute in the calculation of budgetary stability or the expenditure rule. In a request for maximums, minister, and without going into any other analysis, we would say that the spending rule should be directly repealed, as has already been requested by the Republican Left on other occasions. This, you have no interest in carrying out, among other things, because it allows you to take advantage of the surplus of the municipalities - equivalent to 0.7 % of GDP -, helping to a great extent to meet these overall deficit targets and to compensate for the State's failure to do so. Remember, minister, that the Spanish state has again fulfilled - this time also by the hairs - the duties that came taxed from Brussels for the year 2017. The deficit for the Spanish general government as a whole was 3.11% of GDP, just within the limit set. As was also the case the previous year, the Minister, Mr Montoro, was able to say with satisfaction that he had met his deficit target from Europe, thanks to the good results achieved by the efforts made by the autonomous communities and, above all, by the local administrations, by the municipalities. These administrations carried out much more than that. They did not do so either by Social Security or by the central administration, which year after year are dependent on them. Honestly: Don't you think you owe much more to the municipalities than you are offering them through this royal decree? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella i Farré. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u24	Madam President, Minister, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have been able to observe this is Royal Decree-Law 1/2018 and it is the second law-class rule that this year is published in the State Official Gazette and that today we come to validate. In other words, this year the legislative impetus of the Government is shining for its absence. This rule, which we are now endorsing, has only two articles which, firstly, extend the possibility of sustainable financial investments by the municipalities, extending the rules contained in the sixth additional provision of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, and secondly, extend the scope of these sustainable financial investments and eliminate the need for prior administrative authorization for some of them, i.e., raise the thresholds. Why are we debating here today? We are debating here today in the first place because local corporations are healthy; that is a fact, this year they have had surplus. The Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, has assumed here that this is thanks, among other things, to the rise of the IBI that you carried out in 2011. It seems a little strange to me that we are boasting tax increases, because tax increases really are not government merit; in any case, the payment of taxes is citizens' merit and, now that the situation improves, what needs to be done is to start returning the sacrifices to them. [[Applauds]] In fact, it would not only be urgent to reduce the tax burden that citizens pay - for that in the budget bill, which, as I will then speak of, this is a spin-off, an advance, we have included a tax cut - it is even simpler: a year ago the Constitutional Court considered the municipal surplus tax partially unconstitutional - that of taxing as if it were actually won when it is lost - and this is still pending, so we are not even talking about a tax cut, we are talking about complying with the Constitution and the laws, of complying with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, fundamentally, of doing a minimum of fiscal justice. This is another issue that we are waiting for and that we believe is urgent. The second reason why the municipalities are complying, in addition to the management - apart from the rise of IBI - is the rule of spending. Obviously, this rule of spending, now that the situation has improved, we can and must update and improve it, but, unlike what Esquerra Republicana thinks and, somehow, we may be spending without rules, we believe that there can be no spending without rules and that there must be rules of spending, because the other is the forearm of waste and in the end always carries the uncontrolled deficit that ends up destroying the economy. In addition to all this, it is clear that this rule is here because there are no budgets yet, because the Government has not submitted - and we have told you this - the draft budgets within the constitutional deadline. We now come, in the midst of the budgetary procedure, to this decree-law, which, in fact, has broad parliamentary support and we believe that it is positive. It's a patch but it's a necessary patch. What happens is that not only do local municipalities and corporations - which must be respected and supported - have important interests, but also pensioners, who should update their pensions above 0.25 %; young people who do not receive a salary supplement; Spaniards who earn between 12 000 and 18 000 euros; parents, who could have a week of paternity this year; in general, more than 13 million Spaniards. To the forces that support this decree-law to expand and improve sustainable financial investments, I would say that they think not only of the interests of the mayors and the municipalities - which are also worthy - but also of the interests of the Spaniards and that, therefore, they negotiate and support the draft General Budgets of the State, because we believe that now is the time to think of Spain rather than the partisan acronyms. [[Applauds]] This rule is indeed a patch, but it is a necessary patch. From Citizens we believe that Spain needs an in-depth reform of local financing and that sustainable financial investment must be boosted, but also that superfluous spending, which are two sides of the same coin, must be cut. We believe that it is necessary and essential to have good rules, but that does not replace good management. In 2015, only EUR 660 million of financially sustainable investments were made, which is only 34% of the available surplus, and in 2016 the total amount was 696 million compared to the 2687 million surplus, i.e. only 26%. This rule is not going to solve the shortcomings of some municipalities, those that are called change, such as that of Madrid, which disguise and camouflage their very low budget execution by knowingly breaking the rule of spending by buying palaces. Making effective management is not breaking the spending rule by buying buildings and buildings, but by executing road investments, or investments, for example, in new technologies, in smart cities that Spanish cities need, in the mobility and modernity services that Spanish towns and cities need, and not spending without control. [[applause]] That is why we do support the concept of sustainable financial investment, because we need to reduce current unproductive expenditure and we need to invest more and better. Spain needs something more than this patch, but this patch is needed, and Spain needs stability. Therefore, the Members who support this decree law on sustainable financial investments would ask them to think more about Spain than their parties, to negotiate and, with the corresponding amendments, to approve the draft budgets because Spain, and not just the municipalities, needs stability, progress and accounts for this year 2018, even if it is late. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to lower the tone of the talks a little bit because there is quite a murmur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u26	Good morning. Minister, Mr Montoro, you have come here this morning practically with the banner of generosity, and our group is given the impression that you have not done so because you are generous, but forced by the circumstances and by the pressure of many municipalities and political forces that we have been saying for a long time that this was unsustainable, as well as unjust. We do not ignore that there are probably also municipalities of the People's Party that see elections very early and that have asked you for some flexibility for the benefit of the People's Party, but the truth is that this royal decree comes late and wrong; it comes late even in terms of this very year. It has already been three months since its inception that many municipalities could have used to apply new sustainable financial investments that, as you know, because it is also responsible for such regulation, are more complicated to manage in bureaucratic terms, involve quite a lot of slower procedures and, ultimately, three months takes a lot of time to waste to implement those investments. Why have you waited so long to do this? This is a very important question that you probably don't want to answer. The most serious of all is that this greater flexibility with regard to municipalities is clearly insufficient. You see, Mr. Montoro, it's like you stole or cut us ten, gives us a little time later one and asks us to thank you. It is not a question of thanking you, but of recognizing all the shortcomings that exist and all that you have left unfulfilled. What this royal decree does, in short, basically, is to return to the years after 2014, in which the IFS could be used, less in the last year. Therefore, we return to a previous situation that, moreover, does not solve the fundamental problem that other spokespersons have already highlighted here, which is the rule of spending and the Financial Stability and Budgetary Sustainability Act. A questionable and questionable spending rule for methodological purposes. We believe that there should be a rule that should be based on ensuring sufficient funding for public services and not linked to an expected, volatile and uncertain indicator of economic growth. By the way, they have not yet been successful in everything they carry out under the spending rule in government predictions. Moreover, you know that the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority has recognized that the application of the spending rule in Spain differs greatly from the application that is made in other countries of the European Union. I mean, it's methodologically a disaster, but it's because you didn't design it to be a disaster or a hit, but precisely because it's subordinate to an economic policy strategy to reduce public spending. Mr Montoro, I have here the Stability Programme of the Government of Spain from 2017 to 2020, page 38. You say that public spending should move from 42.2% of GDP in 2016 to 39.2% of GDP in 2020. In short, there are 3 points less cuts in public services. That's your overall strategy and that's where you insert the spending rule, putting the effort of cuts on local corporations. Therefore, you will not be able to deceive us in the budgetary debates that we will have on social spending or on the goodness of your economic policy. You are consolidating the cuts in public services and you have approved it; everything else is propaganda. [[Applauds]] This is what we question, because, moreover, in this distribution of effort there is a comparative aggravation. You know perfectly well that local corporations and their surplus is what has enabled you to meet the deficit, because it turns out that while local corporations have surplus, the autonomous communities have a deficit of 0.3%; Social Security, 1.5%; and the central administration - that is, you - of 1.9%. You not only ignore the countercyclical effect of the spending rule that aggravates the problems of the economy - it is not that you ignore it, it is that you are interested in that plan that I have just mentioned of cutting the public - but you are also aware that the government itself failed to comply with the spending rule systematically and that it has been used politically with many municipalities. For example, the Madrid City Council had a surplus of EUR 1 billion and yet you used your coercive measures, which you did not use with other municipalities that were of the People's Party or with yourself, which did not comply with the spending rule. Mr. Montoro, I'm done. I ask you to read our proposal for a law on the expenditure rule, because what we propose is simply to change its regulation to exclude from that expenditure rule those municipalities with healthy accounts, which ultimately means that they have surplus or budgetary balance, that they have a debt level of less than 110% of current resources or that they have a payment period of less than thirty days to suppliers. As the spokesman for Citizens will check, it is not about spending without rules, but rules in another way. We make rules to defend public services and you support the public service cut-off budgets of the People's Party. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Spiny Garzón. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u28	Good morning. The central problem is that your application of the expenditure rule is dogmatic, anti-European - in no country does it apply as in Spain - anti-social and insolidary. The government has wanted to comply with Brussels at the expense of the city's resources because the government is always the one who fails. It is part of the war that the People's Party declared to municipalism and that it had two objectives. Firstly, to reduce public spending, and therefore services to citizens, by moving away from Europe in terms of the welfare state, and that is when we have a huge social deficit in the form of inequality and precariousness and a huge social debt in the form of lower social spending in relation to the countries in our environment. With you, Spain moves away from Europe in rights and freedoms and also in the state of well-being. The second major objective of his policy is the re-centralisation, the long hand of Minister Montoro controlling municipal resources, limiting the capacity of the municipalities to act. It continues to be necessary to make use of the surplus, even with this royal decree-law, to request authorization from the Ministry of Finance in certain cases. Mr Montoro, you are not the mayor of all the cities and towns of Spain, fortunately. The mayors are elected by the citizens and must be able to decide autonomously where they allocate their resources. This royal decree-law is a small advance, an advance achieved by the continued pressure of municipalism and, singularly, of the municipalities of change, but it is not the solution. It is not the solution to the economic asphyxiation situation suffered by the municipalities. It is not the solution because it does not include priorities, such as housing access policies; it is not the solution because it is not enough to expand investment programmes if the limitations on local autonomy are maintained with the expenditure rule. The solution has already been discussed in this House, and it is the motion for a law tabled by our parliamentary group. And precisely because it is not the solution, they do not want our bill to be dealt with and use bad parliamentary arts by extending PP and Citizens the deadline for amendments indefinitely. The solution is a new model of local funding, which is the great outstanding issue. The municipalities of change - Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Cádiz, Coruña - have increased social investment - Barcelona is the city of Spain where social investment has grown the most - and, in addition, they heal the accounts that, in some cases, the Popular Party left more than in red numbers. We don't know what Citizens do, Mr. De la Torre, because you don't rule anywhere. It is no longer a question of patching, but of ending the economic suffocation of the municipalities. It is not a question of giving away anything, but of restoring sovereignty to the administrations closest to the citizenry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u30	Thank you. Mr. Montoro, we expected much more from this royal decree-law than you bring to validate Congress. Minister of Finance, you once again fail to meet the expectations of local governments and the demands made by the mayors who belong to all the political parties that have municipal representation. In particular, it defrauds small and medium-sized municipalities, which account for more than 97% of the 8125 Spanish municipalities. You bring to validation a royal decree-law in view of your inability as the Government of Spain to approve a bill of general state budgets for 2018. You spoke of delay, and that delay is only attributable to yourself, to the Government. This royal decree is only the formula to enable an urgent solution that allows, as on previous occasions, the extension to reinvest the surplus of 2017. Mr Montoro, the most recent report of his ministry, the Ministry of Finance, states that of the €5 billion surplus generated by the municipalities in 2016, only €700 million could be invested in financially sustainable investments, only 14%. These are official data from last year's exercise, I don't make them up myself. I wonder, and I suppose we all wonder, to what extent will this royal decree that today will validate the investment of those 5 billion surplus generated by the municipalities in 2017. I think the answer can only be given by mayors and mayors, but we are afraid that the percentage of the reinvestment little will improve the situation with respect to 2017, since the applicable spending rules are practically the same. His Government had not wanted to make the spending rule more flexible and had not wanted to respond to the constant demands of the municipalities. In short, they do not listen to what the mayors and the mayors, who are the ones who are day by day responding to the requests of their neighbors. And, Mr Montoro, the requirements required in previous periods by the Ministry of Finance to the local government have not changed. It is true that the Royal Decree expands the investment catalogue; however, it continues to exclude an important part of the municipal demands that we from the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue to demand with insistence. This royal decree still does not allow the surplus to be applied to current expenses, which are the most common in skills such as employment promotion, social assistance, consumer protection, equality policies or citizen participation; nor does it allow investments in areas such as housing or the establishment and operation of secondary education educational institutions. On the other hand, the Royal Decree proposes, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance in two cases; in case the investment made exceeds 15 million euros as a whole, if it concerns Chapters 1 and 2 of the budget, and in case of exceeding 40% of the total non-financial expenditure, which was not previously necessary. This measure, Mr Montoro, will create significant damage to small and medium-sized municipalities. In short, his Government, the People's Party Government, took advantage of this royal decree to introduce restrictions on the rules of play, which previously did not exist. You're not making it easy on the city halls. However, although we are aware that the royal decree is nothing more than a patch to the problem generated by the Government itself, the Socialists will not put any obstacles to its adoption. Right now we believe that it is the lesser evil to allow the reinvestment of the surplus without further delay; a surplus which, by the way, we have for the good management of local administrations and which has well come to the Government to conceal its own non-compliance. That is why the Socialist Group is going to give it its support, because there is no alternative to curtailing the extension of the surplus. The socialists have called this royal decree, the decree of lentils, Mr Montoro, because you have told the mayors: these are the measures they have to spend the surplus of their municipalities; if they want to take them and if they do not leave them. He didn't give them any choice. But its validation does not mean that it is a sufficient standard to solve the problems of local entities with surplus and its approval will not prevent the continued suffocation of the municipalities, which will continue to face many problems in allocating it to social and investment policies. Little has he told us in his intervention of the royal decree which he brings to validate; he has bragged and put in value, indeed, the good municipal management, despite the obstacles that you and your ministry are putting in place. Socialists will continue to urge the Government to return to the municipalities the local autonomy curtailed by a policy of harassment and cuts in financial resources and competences. You were telling us there's no city halls left. The Socialists have never doubted it. What we believe is that we need now more than ever strong municipalities, with full decision-making capacity and adequate resources to respond to the rights and needs of citizens, who daily transfer their demands to their mayors. It also said that municipalities are not service providers. Indeed, they are local governments that must have sufficient means to carry out those policies that they collected in their electoral programs, in their government programs, from the commitment they made to their neighbours. In line with the legitimate demands of our mayors, the socialists will continue to demand that the government respect the local autonomy enshrined in the Constitution and a new policy of local hacienda, Mr Montoro, which will allow the local entities to relax the rule of spending and the ceiling of spending, solve the problem of municipal indebtedness, use the remnants of treasury, give an immediate exit to the situations of financial bankruptcy and increase the replacement rate, because the Spanish municipalities today have one hundred thousand public employees less than six years ago. In short, we will continue to demand from the government the necessary powers to make policies for people from the local level and sufficient funding to carry them out and we propose, Mr Montoro, to address it since the reform of the financial system, in a way that is simultaneous to the model of autonomous financing within the year 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Matarí Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. The municipalities wanted this to generate the activity and employment generated by this immense mobilization of investments. This is very good for the citizens of Spain. It's the best thing that can happen to this country. This is the answer to your question, Mrs Sumelzo, and they are not my words or those of the People's Group, they are the words of the president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, Abel Caballero, referring to the content of this decree. [[Applauds]] Here some criticisms have been heard, which are certainly respectable, but which in no way coincide with the opinion of those who represent the 8125 Spanish municipalities, because the FEMP Board of Government - Socialist Party, People's Party and United Left, Mr Garzón - has unanimously supported this decree-law. A little coherence, Mrs Sumelzo, Mr Garzón, would not be bad, and a little respect for the mayors and their representatives would not be bad either. Do you know why you supported him, ladies and gentlemen? Because this decree-law so that local corporations can allocate the surplus to financially sustainable investments is a direct consequence of the agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the FEMP, as the Minister very well recalled in his intervention. Mr. Montoro, congratulations. You have participated directly in the negotiations and presided over the meetings on 26 February, where you heard the requests and demands of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and on 6 March, where the ministry presented the content of the royal decree, expanding the sectors in which you can invest and increasing the amount of investments, for which it is necessary prior authorization of the ministry. So congratulations, Minister; congratulations that we ask you to transfer the Secretary of State for Finance, José Enrique Fernández de Moya, and the Secretary General for Autonomic and Local Policy, Belén Navarro. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree that Congress today has to validate if you do not want to turn your back on almost eight thousand local entities is the colophon of a set of measures and initiatives that the People's Party Government has been taking since 2012. I will not refer to all of them, the minister has already done so to some, but it is fair to remember that the People's Party, the government of Mariano Rajoy, found a dramatic situation in the local administration, as in the rest of Spain, of financial asphyxiation and virtually bankruptcy, which put at serious risk many public services provided by local corporations to Spanish citizens. The criticisms heard this morning remind me of other events, when great catastrophes were announced by the opposition for our municipalities and our neighbours, but no, no municipality has disappeared, no public service has been abolished or jobs lost. None of this, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary, thanks to the efforts and work of thousands of councillors and hundreds of mayors, and also thanks to the measures implemented by the Ministry of Finance during these years, today 90% of local entities have healed their accounts and have surpluses, provide more and better public services than ever, more efficiently, and also, ladies and gentlemen, with greater transparency. Among other measures, I would like to recall the Supplier Payment Plan, four thousand local entities that have paid two million invoices to 123 000 suppliers for an amount of EUR 11.5 billion. That is indeed a real employment plan, Minister, and not Mr Zapatero's famous PlanE. [[Applauds]] An employment plan that saved hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises and thousands of self-employed people in our country. As much as they say otherwise, the data are indisputable. Local funding has increased by 24% between 2011 and 2018. It has gone from 14,450 million in the last socialist budget from 2011 to 18 000 in 2018, which is 3500 million more funding for local entities, you put it as you put it, 24 %. There's been some spokesman - I mean sir About the Tower - who didn't want to talk much about the decree. It will be because of the sanitation and the good progress of the local entities may not be able to point out any merit, or perhaps because their responsibility in the municipalities, in the municipal management, is none, or perhaps it will be because you proposed the disappearance of half of the municipalities in Spain. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree will allow the municipalities to invest more in their municipalities, improve the public services they receive, as well as generate wealth and employment. That is why it is not understandable that there should be any group that criticizes or does not support this rule which will allow investments that I would certainly insist will improve the lives of Spanish citizens. If this decree-law is not validated it will not be possible for the municipalities to invest the surplus of 2017, and if its approval or parliamentary processing is delayed, it will lose part of its effectiveness, because the municipalities, deputies, lobbyists, etc., need speed to process their spending files this year without delay in order to be able to execute those investments this same year and in 2019. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary must validate this royal decree, which culminates - I insist - the process of dialogue between the Government and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, in order to give effect to a fair municipal claim; a royal decree for the 2017 surplus to be implemented in 2018 and also in 2019 - one of the most important demands of the FEMP - and to expand - also the claim of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces - the catalogue of financially sustainable investments and investments in educational, cultural, social, sports infrastructure, waste management, security and civil protection and equipment of municipal units. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree represents the recognition of good municipal management and summarises very well the commitment of the governments of the People's Party and President Rajoy for the municipalities, for the municipalities of Spain, for the large and small peoples, for the cities, for everyone. We, in the People's Group, are convinced that the Spaniards are equal and have the same rights, we live where we live, so I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support validation, because with your affirmative vote you will be supporting the municipalities and thereby improving the public services that they provide to the neighbours of the 8125 Spanish municipalities. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Matarí.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u34	We turn to the next item on the agenda, which relates to motions arising from urgent appeals. First, motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 and the situation of the housing for rent. For the author group of the initiative, for the defence of the motion, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u35	When we asked the minister two weeks ago about the housing budget and the problems of abusive rental prices, I think that a number of things were made clear. Firstly, that the minister lied about the money that his ministry intended to guarantee the right to housing. By 2018 there will be less money than last year, and the 70% cut that started in 2011 will be consolidated. Secondly, that the government has no intention of changing the law in order to resolve that almost half of the people who live on rent in this country are spending 40% of what they enter to pay their flat. And thirdly - a rather serious thing - that the minister has no idea that there are administrations, such as the municipalities, that are actually working to resolve the situation. Surely the minister - who is not even here - will not have done his duties, so I would like to give him three examples of what the Barcelona City Council is doing, which I believe can, humbly, help alleviate this human rights violation. Over the past two years, more than 2000 evictions have been avoided in the city, representing 246 per cent more of the cases dealt with by the previous government. There was simply a lack of political will and now there is a desire to change things. Nor should the minister know - or should he not want to know - that for every 10 euros that his government invests in housing policies in the city the city council is putting 100. The minister should also not know that yesterday the first files were started to rent the empty floors of the banks after only ten days ago the Constitutional Court lifted the suspension of the last Catalan housing law that its... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u36	One moment, Mrs. Martin; one moment, please. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u37	He said that only ten days ago the Constitutional Court lifted the suspension of the last Catalan Housing Act that his Government had loaded. So, from the humility of those who know that more can always be done and those who know closely the suffering of an eviction, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, why don't you have a little shame and recognize, at least, the immense work that many municipalities, not just Barcelona, do every day to respond to people's problems? [[The lady]] You want to control and block any reform of the LAU, of the Mortgage Law, of fiscal policy, of the taxes that thanks to you no longer pay the Socimi. All this is controlled from here, and you do it to daily shield the injustice of those rules that have been consolidated, and you do it obviously thanks to your orange crutch that helps you with the vetoes. They leave everything tied and well tied and then take the responsibility off, justify the budget cut and blame the autonomous communities and the municipalities, which Montoro, on its own, decided to drown financially. Great teamwork that of your Government. And since the state invests a misery and Montoro stifles those who do want to do things, its government strategy is to put the red carpet on investment funds, the Socimi and other big owners to invest them and earn as much as possible in the shortest possible time. The PP works forever, to put public institutions at the service of private investment. You privatize health, privatize education, privatize pensions and obviously also privatize housing policies. What is happening with the prices of rentals, which are priceless, is basically a consequence of this recipe. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, not being able to live more than three years in one place because you know you won't be able to pay the next contract? I don't know if any of you are in that situation. Imagine, because that's what people are living in so many cities in the state, people who have a normal job, with a normal salary; communities of neighbors to whom the investment fund that has bought their block sends a bureaufax to inform them of 30, 40 or 50 percent climbs: either they take it or they leave it, because with their LAU there is no alternative. Every three years, one incognita: another move, again looking for flat, another neighborhood, another city, another school, another hospital, other neighbors. If we believe that the public authorities must guarantee the right to housing, we cannot continue to treat the rents as if they were shares of the Stock Exchange, we cannot allow the rents to repeat a situation that we have already lived in this country with the mortgages. We want to look like Austria, Germany, Holland, places where they have a lot of public rental park, where contracts last many more years, where the owners are quiet because they know that whoever rents their apartment rents his house, ladies and gentlemen; his house. And, for that, there is no other; we need a government that believes that we have the right to housing or, rather, we need majority alternatives to PP and Citizens. We know that the problem is complex and that there are no magic solutions, but there are essential changes that can no longer wait. We need to change the Urban Leases Act so that contracts are longer, that vulture funds cannot continue to speculate, and that rents cannot grow without limits to meaningless prices. And what to say to the PSOE, who recently dismarried from what we have twice voted for this parliamentary term in Congress; what to say to Mrs Romingera. Well, be brave, don't buy the speech on the right. They know well that in Berlin and Munich, cities with income containment systems, the private market has not resented and works perfectly. If Pedro Sánchez won Susana Díaz the primary, I think it was precisely to break that tradition that says that the PSOE only dares with socially courageous proposals when it is in opposition or when it has no legislative value. So, Mrs. Romingera, get it over with. I wish we could listen more to the cities. Last week they were here councillors and councillors of Housing Valencia, Cadiz, Madrid, Zaragoza, La Coruña, Santiago, Barcelona, Cordoba - where, by the way, the PSOE is also in government - cities that total more than seven million people with very different situations but with only one demand: we need to change the LAU, we need to be able to contain prices because people can no longer pay their rents. I hope that this debate will lead to positive conclusions because, either we change the Urban Leases Act, or we have millions of people again - students, families, pensioners - who will not be able to continue in their homes. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, we want to live in our neighborhoods, go to the health center with the doctor who already knows us, take the creatures to the school where they have their friends and friends. We do not want to be nomads and we want to be able to choose where to live, simply, as you do. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u38	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we are dealing with another of the problems that arise from housing and that are constant and polyhedral all of them. While we agree that one of the problems that plagues housing and its access is illegal occupation, we cannot close our eyes to another growing reality, this is the loss of housing due to the updating of rental rents. We are certainly faced with a phenomenon which is seriously damaging the stability of habitual housing, the stability of life projects and which needs to be responded to. It has been shown that the adoption of the 2013 law was a mistake when contracts changed to three years; a contract lasting three years is impossible to allow the durability and stability of family life. When I talk about housing and about changing contracts and their duration, I am obviously referring to when it comes to ordinary housing. It is appropriate that those who have access to their usual dwellings by way of rent may have a contract of a longer duration, contracts which give guarantees and stability to owners and tenants. Those who rent should know that they will have rented it for a while and those who access the house via the rental must know that nothing will endanger their possession as long as the conditions of the contract are met. I believe that this is the path that we must begin to go through and in an immediate way. The updating of rents to the free market, when it comes to habitual housing, is motivating speculation to take letters in the matter and harm the permanence of those people who have conducted themselves as a good tenant. When the contract is terminated, these people see how the rent claimed by them stratospherically rises on the same floor, which inevitably causes them to leave their area of residence. This is neither logical nor I think it has to be the model of the future to which we are directed. The way to access the usual housing via the rental must be a quiet and encouraged form of access. We are therefore in favour of the content of the motion, which says that the duration of rental contracts must be increased and that rents must be established in accordance with objective rates of update. We would add 'when it comes to usual housing'. In addition, we would like the proposer to accept our amendment because it is a need that I believe we need to address. There are houses at the hands of large forks, in this case financial institutions that have been rescued with public money. We understand that it is an obligation for those financial institutions rescued with public money to make a comprehensive and detailed account of the dwellings in their possession, of the situation and location, of their state of conservation and occupation and, therefore, that the municipalities may know which dwellings of those financial institutions rescued with public money are empty, in order to be destined by the municipality for social housing. That's why we're asking for a housing map. Today it is impossible to know which dwellings are in the hands of these large forks rescued with public money in the municipalities - I repeat - because since the title is not entered in the register it is impossible to know who owns these dwellings today. We would therefore incorporate our amendment to the motion put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of Podemos that, in addition to the proposed measures, the Government be urged to make this map of housing owned by entities rescued with public funds. The problem and the drama of access to regular housing from all fronts should be addressed and the Urban Leases Act amended to make a durable lease, guaranteed for tenants and owners and with an update of rents, when it comes to regular housing, according to objective indices. I think that this is a need that should be addressed by the House without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u40	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. It seems that we are still talking about the State Housing Plan and, personally, it is something that pleases me very much because I think it is a very good plan, it is the most social plan in history and it is a pride to be able to tell it and talk about it. In this motion we are talking again about rents and they want to limit prices and long-term rent as a rule. You ask for the protection of tenants translated into two measures: to regulate rental prices and in five years of minimum duration of rental contracts, very respectable options but that we have aged because we have also analysed the consequences of one thing and the other. With regard to the minimum duration of five years of rental contracts, we believe that it could result in a contraction in the supply of housing, because since the measure to change the tacit extension to three years of the duration of contracts has been implemented, with the legislative reform of 2013 and other measures that have had continuity, what has occurred is an increase in the rental market to more than 22 %, approaching the average rate of the European Union, which is 30,8 %. Then they talk about the regulation of rental contracts. The regulation of rental contracts in those cities that you always call - Paris, Berlin - has given rise to precisely the opposite effect, a reduction in housing supply and an increase in prices. In addition, there were many factors that exceeded this rental limit, such as outdoor housing, good views or increases in surface area, issues that here in Spain are a guarantee of habitability. In addition, there has been a deterioration of the residential park because rehabilitation under these conditions is not cost-effective. You know that in Paris it has been repealed and in Berlin you are awaiting a ruling from the Constitutional Court. Take an example, since you so much like to give lessons, of European judgments. What has the People's Party done? In this Housing Plan 2018-2021 we have six programs that collect a wide range of aids, three of them are direct aid to people and three promotion aids, the final result of which is the one you want, a maximum rental price depending on the aid you receive to build that housing. That is our proposal, to increase the rental housing stock to stabilize supply and demand and prices. That is why we have based our amendment. With regard to the budget, you are asking for an increase in the allocation of the budgets for the programmes of the Housing Plan, and on that I say to you that there is no problem, because the allocation of the programmes of the State Housing Plan in the budgets has already been increased. And the only problem we see is you. [[Laughter]] The only problem we see is Podemos and the Socialist Party, which have also said not long before they even know its content. In this plan, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you are always talking about a budget, that is to say, asking for more money, but I have never heard you analyze the programmes of the Housing Plan to, consequently, know whether what is intended at least for each block is enough or not. To me who values the plan with a percentage of GDP, if I tell you the truth, he doesn't tell me anything, what he wants me to tell him, he doesn't tell me anything at all. The 2013-2016 plan had a budget of 2311 million euros, which in round figures amounted to 805 million for the grant programmes of the plan, 1290 million for grant commitments from the financial years 1013 to 2016 and 450 million outstanding from previous years, and 216 million more to meet grant commitments and other grants that were not provided in 2012. And the new plan has 1443 million earmarked for grants, which, if compared to the 805 million of the previous plan, represent an increase of 62.5%. The allocation of subsidies is 390 million euros, but because everything is already paid. The total budget of the plan would be 1883 million, which, compared to the actual amount of the previous plan - remember to deduct the 700 million debt from Zapatero's plans - means, as has already been said, an increase in subsidies of 62.5 % and a total increase of 13.5 %. That is to say, if the 2311 million we discount the 700 million, it is clear that the allocation of the plan goes up. And what's the problem? Because the budget is growing. I repeat: the problem, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, is you, because we would support this point if you would allow us to vote for points, but you would have to have enough lucidity and responsibility to support the 2018 General State Budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u43	Good morning, Members of Parliament. Madam President. For the umpteenth time we are faced with a counterposition not only of models of public housing policy but also of attitudes. In a repeated attempt to mix absolutely everything that is going on in this debate, the motion contains a full argumentary of topics and dogmas which, however, today, when the proposal comes, leads to two questions which, although they seem more or less clear, are so generic and unconcrete, with the exception of the proposal to increase the minimum term of five years of minimum duration of rental contracts, which in principle may not offer any greater problem than the inconsistency between their exhibition and the operative part, which leads us to announce from now on that we are not going to support this motion. It is not difficult to coincide, in part, with the first of the motion's proposals: to increase the allocation of the State General Budgets for the State Housing Plan. While, and now that the content of the budgets is already known, it would have to have been more concrete in pointing out where and how much it wants and can increase and from what revenue line, since the increase in allocations in this concept would have to be made to the detriment of others and, above all, what link will it have with the expenditure of other territorial administrations competent in the field of housing, such as the municipalities and the autonomous communities. My group criticised the State Housing Plan, pointing out that, in the face of this decision to promote aid without criteria, there was a need to provide the public park with more consistent housing in order to be able to cope with a market that was too sensitive, too volatile, leaving out the possibility of having a ceiling on lower incomes or even those who were completely without incomes. And we pointed out in his day, and it was the criticism we were making, that such a policy should be carried out by the nearest administrations. The right decision, in our opinion, that for which we have directed our housing policy in Euskadi, is the creation of public housing parks, in particular so that it could be managed by the municipalities and, in our case, by a public housing manager who is Etxegintza, for what it was essential to provide the competent administrations with sufficient funding. In Euskadi it is not easy to create public housing parks because their soil and even their construction are especially expensive; but that was our decision and that was the direction by which we headed. Do the same and indicate what amount you want against which budget line and with which recipients, this is to which administrations will attribute this function of regulating the housing market through their own public housing park. Another is the second proposal, which divides into two, or almost three, those which I had announced. The first relates to the extension of the minimum duration of leases from three to five years. The truth of the matter is that we have nothing clear about the correctness of the measure or not. We would prefer to hear those who have a trained and technical opinion on this matter before making a decision in one direction or another. While the truth is that you have opted for noise and propaganda in the form of a motion rather than putting forward a legislative proposal to amend the Urban Leases Act, where we would have the opportunity not only to decide on this issue, but to do so after hearing experts and experts on the subject. [[Mrs. Martín González, Mrs. Lucia, makes negative gestures]] Don't make any gestures, this is it. [[Rumors]] If you don't mind, we intervened each in our turn. The same applies to the proposed measures as a whole, which are specified as an improvement in the protection of tenants and in the regulation of rental prices. What measures are you referring to? For aid in the form of grants or loans? And who would lend them? Because we are very much afraid that, with such generic and inconcrete proposals, new competitive interferences are allowed in aspects that are already part of the ordinary activity of the Basque administrations. Because, at least in Euskadi, there is a wide range of aid targeted at different population groups, some of a fiscal nature, others direct, which can be accessed in view of income or risk situations. Yesterday one for young people was announced; there are others regarding the IRPF and others about credit subsidization. But we can also say something about intervention measures on the price of rents. What measures are they talking about? Who manages them? What role would the municipalities play in them? It's too incredulous. They can't act this way. In short, we do not share either the form or the tone of the motion and believe that it suffers from a high degree of inconcretion which could have been supplemented above all in the form of concrete legislative initiatives on which, in that case, we could have expressed ourselves in another way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u44	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are here debating housing, at the National Court our colleague Tamara, a human rights defender, is being unfairly accused of rebellion and terrorism. Tamara, you're not alone! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The sacrosanct Constitution that you claim to defend at all times affirms in your article 47 that 'All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing.' However, the Spanish Government, far from guaranteeing this right, last year evicted more than 35 000 families, with an average of 100 families evicted a day and, failing to comply with the repeated judgments of the European Court of Justice, the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights and the recommendations of the United Nations, have been evicted without offering them a housing alternative. I mean, they've been left on the street. The same article 47 of the sacrosanct Constitution with which you fill your mouth every day, beyond recognizing the right to housing, states that 'the public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant rules to give effect to that right, regulating the use of land in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation'. Gentlemen of the People's Party, have you read this part of the Constitution? Have you read where you say that your government's policies should be aimed at banning soil speculation? Because you, from the Soil Law promoted by the Aznar government, what you have done is allow speculation on the ground. And when you passed the law you said you were doing it to lower the price of housing. Do you think we can calculate how much the price of housing has increased since then? This is the true face of their neoliberal policies: an increase in the price of housing up to 40% of the family's salary; a hundred evictions a day to throw people out of their homes and, for dessert, that empty housing be given to banks rescued with public money and that they have had an absolutely wrong, usury and immoral, when not illegal, performance in the granting of mortgages. Housing and mortgages that - to curl the neoliberal curl - have ended up in the big vulture funds, which grow with speculation of basic products and services and have caused the misery of the poorest. So much so that the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations - DESC Committee - has warned of the Spanish State's failure to comply with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and in particular with regard to the right to housing. In this respect, it points out that it is insufficient that social housing in the Spanish State accounts for only 2% of the total and claims the need for the persons concerned to have a housing alternative. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not a question of devoting a part of the State's budgets to a housing plan, which is also not his competence, but rather of avoiding speculation with land and housing and that his laws are aimed at guaranteeing the right to decent and adequate housing in a comprehensive manner. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u46	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u47	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Americans say that the road to hell is sown with good intentions and that often happens with the public policies that Podemos offers, that they have very good intentions but that they achieve exactly the opposite of what they propose. I think it is a commendable objective to want to have accessible housing, but your proposals achieve exactly the opposite, for a very simple reason, because you, Mrs Martín, do not want to understand the fundamental laws of supply and demand. It's very simple, now I'll explain it to you. Let us look at the three proposals that your initiative brings. They say: we will set a minimum duration of five years in the rental contracts, we will extend from three to five. What happens when you do that in economics, what happens in the housing market? That owners have less incentives to rent and, if owners have less incentives to rent, the offer is reduced and, if the offer is reduced, the rental prices rise. Therefore, its policy is clearly failing to achieve the objective that had been set, that rent and housing prices should be more accessible to people. [[Applauds]] Therefore, more flexibility - and not less - is needed for owners to make more housing available for rent and to improve the conditions for access to housing. The second brilliant proposal that Mrs Martín is bringing us today and which also shared the Socialist Party in the past: the wonderful world of the VPO, which is basically a lottery, consists of a 1% subsidy to the plugs - they will remember Mr Spinar's case -. [[Applauds]] It is a very good grant for speculators like Mr Espinar, who was touched by this lottery - which, as I say, is a great, random lottery, which is for everyone because basically all the young people were inside that package - and sold it after three months for another 40,000 euros and won a little money, while all the Spaniards were subsidizing the brilliant policy, in that case of the Socialist Party, to which you want to return. Therefore another extraordinary social policy success of Podemos. But the third proposal, which is the most worrying one, is the one concerning the control and regulation of the rental price. It's extraordinary! It's basically the same thing Franco was proposing! That's exactly what Franco was proposing! What did Franco get? [[Greetings in the banks of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-In Marea.-Laughter.- Rumors.-Protests]] Basically boost the rental market, that people let their houses deteriorate because they didn't want to rent, because at that price they weren't interested in renting and then there was no affordable rental and therefore no one rented and shot the rental prices or disappeared directly. They could read Krugman or some of his head economists a little more. Krugman explained about the case in the first economics course... [[Rumors.-Mrs. Montero Gil, Martín González, Doña Lucia, and Farré Fidalgo exchange conversations from their seats]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mrs Farré, I'm listening to you from here, and it's not that I have a very fine ear, it's that you speak so loudly that I hear you from here. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u49	I too, President; I too listen to her.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u50	I don't need footer comments, Your Honor. Go on. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u51	He said that Krugman in his book on introduction to the economy set the example of the city of New York, and stated that there is no better way to destroy a city than to bomb it than to ignore that there is supply and demand and to allocate housing prices by law. There is no better way to reduce the quantity and quality of housing offer than with the regulation of rental prices. This is exactly what happened in New York and what has created extraordinary inequalities. They also have the very good examples of Mrs Colau and you mentioned some. I have very little time left, and so I'm going to move on quickly. Mrs. Colau doesn't want hotels in Barcelona, so what? That people take their flats and put them to earn more money like tourist flats. Since there are more tourist apartments, there are fewer apartments for rent. So, what happens again? The offer of rental flats is reduced and then the price of the rental flat is fired, with which its public policy objective fails again, as Mrs Colau is failing. What's Mrs. Carmena doing? For the construction of the floors that were being made in southeast Madrid, with which the offer is reduced again and prices are being fired in Madrid. I suggest that you think a little more about designing public policies, that we talk about how to redistribute empty housing with sensible and reasonable proposals, such as that made by Citizens in their second chance law, that we talk about providing access, for example, to young people with salary supplement, could support the budget so that they can access housing and not subsidize ad hoc where you like, that what you do is fragment subsidies all the time. Let us talk about temporary rent subsidies and really for those who need them, and let us improve the public policies that will benefit everyone a little bit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Zurita, I wanted to say that I am not happy to talk about the Housing Plan because it is a plan that, far from addressing in a coherent way the problematic situation of access to housing for the vast majority of this country's citizens, it does offer us scattered measures accompanied by a scarce economic endowment. It is not related to numbers, 75% less of the funding allocated by the Socialist Government's Housing Plan in 2009, so we were talking about 1.5 million. In addition, however, the measures envisaged in this plan are not effective, because it is of no use to us to regulate rent subsidies for young people or for older people if these measures are not accompanied by other measures aimed at increasing the number of housing intended for rent, at mobilizing supply and at promoting the increase of the rental park in the final analysis. Just as at the time the amendment of the Soil Law during the Aznar governments was the origin of a speculative bubble in the real estate sector, the current People's Party government with its policies has promoted the creation of another bubble in the rental housing sector, thus hindering access to a home worthy of thousands of citizens. Not only have these policies caused this situation, but there have also been labour policies that have entailed temporary hiring and reduced wages - ultimately precarious work - that have caused many families to be unable to cope with the payment of their mortgage, losing their housing. Moreover, it is impossible to hire a mortgage loan for many people precisely because of these low and often non-existent wages. All this obviously implies an increase in the demand for rental housing, and the problem is that at the same time there is a decrease in the supply of this type of housing promoted by the increase in sales for investor purposes, the withdrawal of the market from the rental of housing to be used for sale as a result of the surge in prices and the growth of the tourist rental. In this way we find the consequent upturn in the prices that often rent rooms or that several households share a house. However, we see that it is essential to increase the supply of rented housing, and this requires planning a wide range of measures in this regard, and above all a State housing policy. Unfortunately with the new plan of Minister De la Serna we have missed an opportunity to update all the housing policies of this country. As I say, the update goes unquestionably by increasing the housing stock. That is why we are in favour of the proposals contained in the motion tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. However, we find it unambitious and too generic, as has already been said here, because it is more of the same. You promise and propose, but people expect concrete answers. They propose the obvious, but they don't say how they plan to give real solutions to families who are the victims of the rental bubble. They call for an improvement in the protection of tenants and the regulation of rental prices, but we must really commit ourselves. As you know, my group registered on 15 March a proposal for a law on measures to promote stable rental, in which it is precisely envisaged that leases will have a binding extension of five years, after which they may be extended annually up to three more years. In our proposal for a law the rise in income is subject again to the evolution of the CPI. We also regulate that, in the event of the sale of the dwelling in which the tenant lives, the tenant has the right to remain in it at least the first five years of the rent and with this law, Mrs Ciuró, in no case will the tenant lose his dwelling due to reasons beyond his obligations. In addition, this law of the Socialist Party regulates a public system of reference prices by zones. These are measures to regulate rental prices, Mrs Martín, real measures, measures to protect tenants, as you say. Specific measures, without generalities or impossible to comply with. Measures that also favour the offer of rent with tax advantages for the owners, lordships of Citizens, such as the amendment of the Soil Law to give priority to the use of permanent housing. We also include in our proposed law a clear distinction between what is a rental for housing purposes, seasonal rental and short-term temporary assignment, in order to be able to offer solutions to the serious problem that the tourist rental begins to entail. In short, there are real and feasible proposals which we hope will be supported by the whole House, including that of your group, Mrs Martín. For the moment, because it is already an emergency to promote access for all to decent housing, we will vote in favour of your motion, even though it is too generic for us too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u54	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Martín González whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u55	Let's see how it all goes, but in principle we accept Mrs Ciuro's.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u56	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the serious restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens residing abroad to vote, as a result of the current provisions of the electoral law and its difficult application by the consular service. [[Lord XUCLA]] [[File number 173/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà, into the serious restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens residing abroad to vote, because of the current forecasts of the Electoral Law and its poor application by the consular service. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a motion following an inquiry to the Minister for Foreign Affairs at last week's plenary session, an inquiry that served to highlight that in 2011 there was a reform of the Electoral Law that covered several relevant aspects. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u59	Quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u60	Thank you, Madam President. It covered the reform of the vote of residents abroad, of the vote of citizens registered in the census of residents abroad, the CERA. I think it's good to recognize the mistakes, and before any other spokesperson from some other group says so I think it's good to remember that that global reform of the electoral system was approved with the votes of the PSOE, the PP, the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió and the Basque Nationalist Group. In one of its extremes it was a good reform, but in 2012, just a year later, a proposal for a law of the Galician Parliament came asking to reform precisely the error, the bad practice, the bad application, the bad operation of the new system of voting for residents abroad. We already voted in 2012 in favour of taking into account that reform of the electoral system regarding the voting of residents abroad. Since then, and we are in 2018, there have been many elections in which empirically - let's go to the facts - many Spanish citizens abroad have not been able to vote with the system of the petitioned vote. That didn't work out well. I have to tell you that there was a motivation to reform the voting system in 2011 and that we have to take lessons from how the vote of residents abroad worked before 2011 and how many times family members of residents abroad did not lay off citizens after their death. We must learn from the mistakes of the past, but above all we must note that the current system has deprived of a fundamental right, such as the right to vote, the right to political participation of many citizens, thousands of citizens of all political parties, who want to vote on different political options, whether they are represented in this House or not. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to face up to a rapid, concrete and specific reform of the Electoral Law concerning the right of citizens to vote abroad. When I say that better thought or more complex laws had to be improved, and this was a complex but not impossible application, I do not want to charge inks alone and exclusively on the legislative option. This motion has a very relevant point number 2. It refers to the indolence in the application of the law of some parts of the foreign service and of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. During the interpellation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I had the opportunity to present specific cases of citizens who wanted to vote and who, for lack of information, for lack of knowledge in the law enforcement by the foreign service were not allowed to vote. Last week I was talking to a consul general of Spain, whose name is irrelevant, and telling me that she herself - ironies of life - had not received the vote by mail in the country in which she was serving as a representative of the foreign service in order to be able to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a bad application of the law. There have been specific cases, which we have tried and which we have presented, of indolent application, and in some cases there has been bad faith in the application of the law, but above all there is a need to address a reform of the Electoral Law. There is currently a subcommission in the Congress of Deputies for the reform of the Electoral Law. It's hard to build consensus. I would ask, if we can, to vote with great consensus on point 1 of this motion as a result of questioning, and I ask that this be the legislature in which the Electoral Law is reformed to face the vote of Spanish residents abroad. No one would forgive us for finishing another legislature - and you know that the legislatures are usually four years old, but life is very complicated - without giving satisfaction to citizens living abroad. We need to learn from what led us to reform in 2011; we need to learn from the need to have an up-to-date and real census of residents abroad; we need to ask who represents these citizens abroad and where they represent them. I remember a proposal from one of the speakers of 2011, the dear Txiki Benegas, of the deputy José María Benegas, when he proposed a constituency for Spanish residents abroad; and I believe that this, as a working hypothesis, is part of the electoral programme of the Socialist Group. Well, we will have to ask ourselves about the census update and who it represents and where it represents citizens abroad. And it is true that in some municipalities of some autonomous communities the vote abroad decants majorities, and perhaps we have been three or four generations without rooting out or linking these citizens with these municipalities. I plant this to say that this is not a debate of black or white dichotomy. This is a debate to re-ensure citizens' rights abroad, but also to do so with consensus and speed. Madam President, I should like to conclude by saying that, in order to spend less time, I should like to thank you very much for the amendments tabled by Mr Podemos and the Socialist Group, in order to try to achieve a good consensus if it is possible under point 1 we cannot accept their amendments, because if there was a compromise, then we would have to vote together on point 1 and point 2. And I also want to tell you clearly that we will not accept the Citizens' amendment, because through this amendment, taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about the Electoral Law, he wants to talk about something very different, about the criminal law of the author and the favourite song of Citizens: about the culture of tweet and not about the culture of legislative rigour. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u61	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Prendes Prendes is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u62	President, ladies and gentlemen, we have an initiative at this point in time by the Joint Parliamentary Group, in particular the PDECAT minority, which proposes the abolition of the requested voting system introduced by the 2011 reform. It is good that Mr. Xuclà began by recognizing his mistakes. It is something worthy of commendation and it also shows very little, with which we must start by pointing it out. It was a mistake of those parties that voted in favour of that reform that changes the system by introducing the requested vote in 2011, and since then we are seeing what the consequences of that reform have been. But taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid the reform also raises the reproach of the Foreign Minister. But honestly, when you begin by recognizing that there is a legislative error, a mistake by those parties that voted in favour of that reform, which is at the basis of all the pathologies that we have witnessed throughout the electoral processes that have been taking place, we really do not seem to take advantage of that circumstance to load the inks on our foreign service to us. But we do agree that this reform - we have always said this - must be addressed, that it steals a basic right, an essential right of citizenship, as is the right of active suffrage for many Spaniards who have to reside abroad. The problem is that your motion is not specific, nor does it derive it from the electoral reform subcommittee, in which we are present and in which there is a high degree of consensus on this issue. What you do not do is to specify what those reforms would be, whether to extend the time limits for processing voting requests, whether to introduce some kind of telematic processing or to add the validity of that petition for voting requested for more than one electoral process. Beyond this, what interests us is to go to the foundation of this need for change. That is the defence of a basic principle, which is the principle of equality for all Spaniards. We believe that the 2011 reform introduces a principle of inequality, because we believe in equality in rights and obligations, and everyone has to have the guaranteed right, that right to vote. And since we believe that rights and laws must be the same for all and that some citizens cannot be discriminated against over others in the exercise of their rights because of where they live, that is why we have tabled one of the amendments to this motion. Equality must be guaranteed not only in the face of active suffrage, that is, in the face of the exercise of the vote, but also in the face of passive suffrage, Mr Xuclà, that is, with regard to the conditions of eligibility which any citizen has to represent his compatriots. And because we believe in the equality of the Spaniards, in the equality of their rights and also of their responsibilities, we believe that whoever has decided not to respect the laws that guarantee the equality of all cannot represent the citizens. As we believe in equality, we believe that whoever has voluntarily decided to flee from justice, thereby demonstrating that he feels above the law, above the rest of his compatriots, cannot exercise political representation. [[Applauds]] In democracy, public representation is exercised only among equals, Mr Xuclà. That is why we have tabled an amendment to address the amendment to article 6 of the Loreg, precisely to ensure that fugitives, fugitives from justice, against whom the judicial authority has already issued a search requirement in the framework of an investigation procedure, those who are considered above the laws and above their compatriots do not have the conditions of eligibility, because they do not want to move in a framework of equality, because they do not respect article 9.1 of our Constitution, which says that the Constitution affects all citizens and all public authorities, the Constitution and the rest of the legal system. That is why we understand that those who want to demonstrate this lack of compliance with the Constitution do not have the conditions to be eligible. We're not just saying it. I recommend reading an article in today's press by the director of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation office in Madrid, Professor Wilhelm Hofmeister. I recommend that you read the entire article, entitled Catalonia and the decline of the European Union, but there is a paragraph particularly relevant to this issue. It says: 'Spanish liberal democracy not only allows people to stand as candidates for elections, even though they escape justice by fleeing abroad, but also allows them to accept their mandates from a distance and even to delegate their votes to Parliament' - says Mr Hofmeister -. [[Puigdemont and others]] [[Covering their diets!]] 'In Germany, that would be unthinkable.' [[Applauds]] We, Your Honor, have a certain Germanic tendency, what you want me to say, is the European federal model par excellence. That is why we also find it unthinkable that those who have voluntarily decided to be a fugitive from justice can be elected to represent all citizens. Democracy, Mr Xuclà, I repeat, is built on the idea of equality before the law. Therefore, if you trust her, if you really believe in her, I ask her to accept our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u63	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Viejo Viñas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u64	President, ladies and gentlemen, the electoral issues are questions of power, and I believe that the debate we are having at heart means that each one of us is basking in his sardine, as it could not be otherwise - in democracy this is the same - but for this very reason I would also like to put our own reflections on the table. Here comes the requested vote, which is a serious limitation on the right of citizens to do something as elementary in democracy as expressing their will. It was the Granate Sea and other collectives who for the first time warned us of what was happening with the legislation adopted at the time by this broad consensus that is now outstanding, and warned us that serious problems were happening with the right to vote of those residing abroad. And if this is already a problem for those who decided to leave, let's not say for those who had to leave forced by the country's situation. Hence the recognition of my group to those who had to go, but they think and continue to think every day in their country and they share their interest in participating in and constituting democracy from here. It is our duty to respond to their legitimate demands. However, in the light of the proposal tabled today by the PDECAT and the amendments recorded, we run the risk of not moving towards a more precise direction for the subcommittee, and also of an explicit desire for change. I am saying this because the proposal before us talks about returning to previous legislation, which, in view of the changes that have taken place, does not seem to be the best idea. Therefore, if we persist in what we have, we will encounter the same problems that we have experienced: outdated censuses, insufficient deadlines, problems in the sending of petitions, paperwork and documentation that do not arrive or are lost, insufficient information, collapsed consulates, etc. The list is long, but the conclusion is clear: the loser is democracy, and we lose, because we are also all part of the same political body. At the moment if we have a majority consensus that can rethink the situation, and therefore change the electoral system and end the call for a vote, I wonder what sense it has to propose the return to the previous legislation, at least as a starting point - our amendment goes in this direction - and if indeed - and this is the question - the Minister's reproof of sending that clear message of will to change to the subcommittee in its work is a priority. In fact, would it not be time to subordinate gestures to concrete changes? Should we continue without up-to-date electoral legislation? By the way, it is at least remarkable that in Catalonia, where we could have an electoral law for many years, let us continue without it. It seems that on the one hand we want to change, but then we are fine with what the regime of seventy-eight gave us, where, by the way, we can, without having a social majority, nevertheless have parliamentary majorities that then generate the situations that they generate. I think it is urgent to modify the Loreg in this sense, but the Parliament could also come out of that lethargy and do its part. Obviously for this we have to form a government and get out of the situation we are in, as well as get out of 155. I'm done. In this debate the positions of the parties will be portrayed to the detriment of the people living abroad, certainly not at the bottom of the issue, but at least in the expression of what should be a will for change from this House. The PDECAT will give priority in substance to reproaching the minister rather than staying with the previous legislation, which certainly does not prevent the work of the commissions, but at least I insist that he does not send that clear message. [[Rumors]] The Socialist Party joins the will... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u65	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u66	... to amend the legislation, but at the same time raises the Minister's reprobation, which brings us back to this difficulty. And Citizens do not let one pass to continue to fire firewood and maintain tension in Catalonia, with which we all end up preaching a lot of culture of dialogue and understanding, but then we do not send that message to the subcommission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Villar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution not only guarantees the fundamental right to political participation in its article 23 but also establishes a clear mandate in article 9.2 for the public authorities to facilitate the participation of all citizens in political life. Article 68(5) further specifies that the law shall recognize and the State shall facilitate the exercise of the right to vote by Spaniards who are outside the national territory. The General Courts are therefore primarily obliged to assume this mandate. It has already been demonstrated to the satisfaction that the reform of article 75 of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime of 2011 and its implementation, introducing the so-called requested vote, effectively casts a very negative balance on the participation in the electoral processes of Spaniards abroad. This participation has been progressively reduced to becoming practically witness, despite the remarkable increase in recent years of Spaniards residing abroad and not precisely because that is their preference, at least in many cases. This has also been noted by the Central Electoral Board in its detailed report for 2016, to which I refer. It is true that that reform, supported by most of the groups in the House - as Mr Xuclà said earlier - was well-intentioned because it was aimed at establishing guarantees against the electoral fraud detected. When it became apparent that it was not working well and that it was still restricting the right to political participation, the Socialist Party also denounced this situation, revised its position and made a firm commitment to support and promote the necessary reforms to suppress the call for votes and improve the political participation capacity of Spanish residents abroad, a number of voters who today are close to two million people. The problems noted are many; among the most decisive, it should be mentioned delays in the receipt of electoral documentation submitted by the provincial delegation of the census office, delays in the receipt by consular offices of envelopes sent by voters, limitations on these offices to organize voting schedules in the ballot box, shortage of time to carry out the necessary operations to allow the votes to be scrutinized, dependence on the operation of foreign postal services that are so diverse from one another, the enormous distances that also exist between the place of residence of the voters and the consular seats for voting in the ballot box, etc. Therefore, the need for an answer is peremptory. These problems have been analysed and discussed in the appearances that have been held in the subcommittee on electoral reform, and I dare say that there are conditions for establishing a basic consensus among the groups on this particular section of the reform. The motion put forward by the honourable Member, Mr Xuclà, involves, on the one hand, a speedy reform of article 75 of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime within the framework of this subcommission. Our group agrees with this point, even though this proposal does not have to wait to complete all the work that is part of the subcommission's task and for this purpose we have tabled a technical improvement amendment. But, on the other hand, the motion incorporates as a second point reproaching the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation and our group understands this consequence disproportionately and not entirely consistent with the objective of control and political orientation of the inquiry and the motion. As Mr Xuclà knows perfectly well - yesterday we were commenting on it - although there may be aspects attributable to deficiencies in the performance of the external service, the problems warned and their causes are of a very varied nature and of great complexity, mainly of a normative nature, also of execution of course but attributable to various administrative bodies, not only one. And there are others whose resolution is not in their hands and escapes their responsibility. In fact, you will recognize that the low percentage of participation, which has been repeated year after year, makes this clear. For this reason, honestly, the Socialist Group cannot support this second point of the motion and we propose its deletion. I'm done, Madam President. In conclusion, what we do is offer our support for the motion if, as Mr Xuclà has said, the proposed compromise is accepted that there is no acceptance of amendments and we vote for points. We shall vote in favour of the first point of the motion but not the second. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor at the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u70	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing a motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Catalonia arising from an inquiry to the Government on the serious limitations on the exercise of the right to vote of Spanish citizens residing abroad because of the current forecasts of the Electoral Law following its amendment in 2011 and its poor application by the consular service. This motion calls for the adoption of a consensual bill by a large majority of parliamentary groups, returning to the principles of article 75 of the Loreg before its reform in 2011, and also calls for the reprobation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation for the repeated negligence of the consular services under the Loreg that hinders the exercise of voting by residents abroad. In the face of this motion, the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party has to express its surprise at having directed it to this House rather than to the Government, when the motions are an instrument of control of the House over the Government. We wonder what is the point of a motion for the groups in this House to agree on a proposal for a law and whether it would not be easier, procedurally and correct from the point of view of parliamentary law, for the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party to present a proposal for a law and seek the support of the rest of the groups and not for a motion whose passive subject is the rest of the House. Secondly, it is proposed to us through the motion that the parliamentary groups return to the principles of the previous legislation. We understand that they refer to the regulation of the Loreg prior to its reform in 2011 regarding the vote of absent residents. But do they refer only to the amended Article 75? Or also to article 190, now deleted, which regulated before the 2011 reform the voting procedure in local elections of those living abroad? On the other hand, what is proposed to us is currently being studied within the subcommission for the reform of the electoral system and we therefore consider it inappropriate that, now and at this time, we should decide on how to correct the inefficiencies already detected and, although we must remember that the participation of voters residing abroad through the Article 75 procedure has always been minority, certainly since 2011 has been reduced extraordinarily to the testimony, according to the Central Electoral Board in its opinion - already quoted - of 16 November 2016. Thirdly, the motion proposes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation be repudiated, saying that the consular services are repeatedly neglected in their role of facilitating the voting of absent residents, as if they were in themselves decisive both for low participation and, with regard to those who decide to participate, so that their vote cannot finally be scrutinized. In fact, the issue is much more complex, as the system's dysfunctions are etched in the following cases according to the Central Electoral Board. First, the voter's willingness to take the initiative to communicate the purpose of voting. Secondly, the delay in the receipt by voters of documentation submitted by the provincial census delegation. Thirdly, the delay with which consular offices receive the envelopes sent to them by the voters. Fourthly, the limitations on consular offices to organize time-tables for the deposit of electoral envelopes in the ballot boxes. Fifth, some malfunctions in the functioning of the consular offices. Sixth, the necessary referral from the office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the provincial electoral boards of the envelopes submitted. Seventh, the short time in which all operations are to be carried out so that the vote can be scrutinized. Eighth, the dependence on the proper functioning of foreign postal services both in receiving electoral documentation and in sending the electoral envelope either to the consular office or to the relevant polling station. I would add the dispersion of voters by many countries with types and circumstances as diverse as those that can go from Germany to Argentina or Venezuela. I'm finishing up. Focusing on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its Minister on an inefficient situation with many variables is not objective, since while the use of the postal services themselves and others and the time available is currently foreseen, the aspects pointed out will essentially continue to exist. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u72	Thank you, President. In this questionable motion we are talking about the exercise of a fundamental right and the obligation to ensure the full exercise of that right is the State's. Esquerra Republicana has been demanding for many years the need to change the system of petitioned votes in force. In the latest Loreg amendment, we tabled an amendment to allow the voting to take place through the electronic voting procedure for people living abroad. People's Party, Socialist Workers' Party of Spain and Citizens did not even want to take advantage of Loreg's modification to modify the requested voting system as well. Our proposal was in line with the action plan to develop the electronic vote for Catalans living abroad that the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia was implementing before the People's Party, the Socialist Workers' Party of Spain and Citizens decided to give the coup d'état to democracy and dissolve the Parliament of Catalonia with the implementation of 155. Since the People's Party, the Socialist Party, Convergence and Union, the Basque Nationalist Party has changed... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u73	Silence! One second, Your Honor. Quiet, please. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u74	Thank you, President. I repeat, since the People's Party, the Socialist Party, Convergence i Unió and the Basque Nationalist Party amended the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and introduced the requested vote, the number of those who have been able to vote from abroad has been drastically reduced; we have gone from 22% to 6%. People living abroad must undergo a bureaucratic process in every electoral process that makes it extremely difficult for them to vote. [[The lady]] It seems, therefore, that the final result of the reform has been the promotion of abstention. The reason for this dramatic drop in the external vote is the circuit of bureaucratic procedures that people living abroad must overcome in order to be able to vote. Administrative crossroad with a time-limit that implies the feeling that expatriates are citizens and second-class citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Loreg must be changed is an indisputable truth. We must do so because the reform that some parties in this House agreed in 2011 has not guaranteed the full exercise of the right to vote of citizens residing abroad, but quite the contrary. The reform has added more difficulties, but difficulties are not only attributable to the reform of the law but are also attributable in this case to the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, which cannot neglect, as I said, its obligations. It is the State that must guarantee the full exercise of the fundamental rights of citizens. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeatedly acted negligently, not only in this case, in others too, but in this particular case. We are talking, when we talk about the difficulties of the requested vote, the difficulties of voting for persons residing abroad, the lack of information in consulates and embassies, the difficulties of registering in the register, the difficulties of persons not appearing in the electoral census or in the CERA register despite having been registered, the documents received out of time or directly not received, the closed embassies, the faxes that do not work, the automatic answering machines that do not offer solutions, the documents that are missing, the wrong forms, the votes lost and so on. In the Catalan elections of 27 September 2015, many Catalans living abroad reported that they had not received the documentation to vote. The Generalitat de Catalunya requested the Central Electoral Board to extend the time limits for voting by mail from abroad. In the elections held on 21 December, the difficulties were repeated, in which case the State did not arbitrate solutions. A consolidated democracy cannot tolerate its citizenship not being able to exercise one of its fundamental rights. The rule of law is undermined, degraded, violated by the rule of law when the person with the obligation does not arbitrate solutions so that his or her citizenship can fully exercise his or her fundamental rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella i Farré. Mr Moreno Bustos has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u76	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The question before this motion by Mr Xuclà's Joint Parliamentary Group seemed to have at least - it seemed fleetingly - an objective that aside from the opportunity or inopportunity of the initiative was acceptable and we could all share: trying to maximize Spanish consular and diplomatic cooperation to exercise the right to vote abroad. In these terms, the Government's response through the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation was useful, interesting and explanatory. But the interpellation also had, as we could see at once, an approach, an exposition and a less honest and much more controversial argument, postponing and desirous and which we in the People's Parliamentary Group do not share at all. Disappointment has been considerable, although I am not going to say that it is unexpected to say so in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on 21 March last, three things were clear to us: the first is that Spain's foreign service, in compliance with the current electoral law, is carrying out very intense work and is also making a strong effort in collaboration with Spanish residents abroad who can and want to vote. Therefore, Mr Xuclà, neither indolence nor negligence nor incapacity nor bad faith in consular service, as you accuse the Government in an irresponsible manner, trying to bring specific cases and problems up to the category of a critical and general situation. What is very different is that the procedure for voting abroad, which we adopted in 2011 with a very broad parliamentary majority, does not encourage or dissuasive for multiple reasons and does not consulate them the electoral participation in the percentage and with the efficiency and ease that we would like to all. The second idea is that there are indeed cases and circumstances, difficulties and problems, aspects that can and must reasonably be addressed, that can and must be addressed and also corrected to improve the exercise of the right to vote abroad. The third idea, which was made clear on 21 March, is that as long as there is no other applicable legislation, Spanish diplomatic and consular representation must comply, as it cannot otherwise be, with the rules and legislation that are adopted by this Parliament and that it is Parliament that takes the initiative and has the capacity to amend it. It is precisely in the electoral reform for the outside world that work is being done right now in this Parliament, within a subcommittee created for this purpose, so that, in the light of the experience gained in the electoral processes, the recommendations received, the reports produced, the most expert opinions and the practical realities that our compatriots experience abroad when they wish to exercise their right to vote, the most convenient and consensual procedure is established. Consular participation and collaboration will undoubtedly be a very important part of the new design and future regulation of that fundamental right; but it is not and will not be the only one to be considered in order to achieve the good end that is being pursued. Moving forward with the conclusions of this parliamentary work would in any case be very imprudent and inappropriate at the moment. From the arguments put forward by the proposing group, both in the debate on the inquiry and in paragraph 1 of the motion, there is a general interest, which is the same as all parliamentary groups, in reforming the electoral procedure for the benefit of the right of all Spaniards wishing to vote abroad. But there is also too much clear recognition of a less broad interest, a biased and partisan bias that at the dawn of exceptional events seems to want to reduce the status of the issue to the electoral interests of a few and not to those of the common Spaniards living abroad. It is not acceptable in any way to relegate or marginalize the work of the subcommittee with this proposal. General electoral legislation should never be set with such narrow, particular and disoriented views or with the pressure of specific political constraints. All Loreg's reforms have been promoted through legislative initiatives by the Chambers, not through government projects that attract the greatest support among parliamentary groups. By an elementary principle of acceptance and legitimacy, the general electoral system must always be perceived! for the citizens and for the parties as the fruit of a great political consensus. And this motion does not help anything for that primordial purpose. Rather, it can complicate and tarnish the work that is in progress, unnecessarily distracts and without any profit, looks like one thing but really pursues and hides another very different as shown in paragraph 2 of the motion. Point 2 of the motion is the ripe fruit of all the insinuations launched before the interpellation against consular service. The proposer group, he usually accuses, instructs and sentence that there is neglect, lack of care and negligence on the part of the Spanish foreign service when processing the vote abroad and in conclusion, no more or less, the minister must be reprimanded. This has neither feet nor head, Mr. Xuclà! It is a real misconception, it is a capital irresponsibility to accuse the Government of preventing voting abroad. For this reason, Madam President - I am finished - it seems to us that the essential thing at the moment is to affirm before the House our intention to work towards electoral reform that is more effective in ensuring and stimulating voting abroad. Our decision not to interfere free of charge with the parliamentary subcommittee that deals adequately and reflectively with this matter. It is our commitment not to condition its outcome or its final proposals either and in no way. And our refusal to curtail the procedure, as was intended in this motion, with partial and unsubstantiated initiatives that only entangle and make it difficult for the best solution to be found among all. That said, we will vote in favour of paragraph 1 of the motion and we will vote in favour of paragraph 2. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno Bustos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u78	We turn to the next item on the Commission's agreement on the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms in relation to the subcommittee's report on the regime and the financing of political parties. For the presentation of the report, Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u79	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption has - it is - been one of the main concerns of the Spaniards, the cause of a serious political crisis, the removal of many citizens from the institutions and it has also had and has entailed a very serious economic cost that we will have to bear for a long time. To put an end to this problem, the Commission on Democratic Regeneration and the Fight against Corruption was set up, which from the beginning decided to start working on three issues. First, in the financing of the parties. It seemed to us all to be important to communicate to society that we first wanted to look at ourselves and examine ourselves. Secondly, in the independence of controls, those controls have so grossly failed in recent history. And three, finishing that first batch of jobs, in the protection of whistleblowers of corruption. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that we have finished the first of our tasks and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the people and institutions who have come to this house, to this Commission, to enrich us with their contributions. Absolutely all of them accepted with pride and enthusiasm our invitation to share with us their diagnosis and solutions and in this way try to improve transparency, control of public money and achieve the necessary progress to democratize the functioning of political parties. Mr Benigno Pendás García, Director of the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies; Inés Olaizola, Professor of Criminal Law; Manuel Villoria, Professor of Political Science and Administration; Jesus Lizcano Álvarez, Professor of Financial Economy and Accounting; Óscar Sánchez Muñoz, Professor of Constitutional Law; Manuel Maroto Calatayud, Professor of Criminal Law; Gloria Martínez Cousinou, Professor of the International Studies Department; Elisa De la Nuez, Member of the Hay Law and Attorney-Law Foundation; José Antonio Montilla Martos, Professor of Constitutional Law; Bárbaraba Jouan, Senior Legal Officer of the French National Commission and Senior Legal Counsel Board on campaign accounts and financing of political parties; OSCE, Marcin Walecki, Major Council and Jacopo Leone, and thanks for all the documents that we have received; José María GimenoJos María GimenoFéle, Senior Legal Counsel Board of the French National Commission and the Government's final accounts of campaign accounts and financing of political parties; by OSCE, Marcin Walecki, President's Council, and Jacopo Leone; and thanks for all documents that we have received; José María María María María María Maria Gimeno as well as well as well as well as well as a long list, as we have received; as a long list, as a long list list, and as I mention, as I mention everyone, and as I can to all because for all because for all because that we have received; and as I can to all because I am all because I can to all because I can to all because all because I have a list list list, all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because to all because I think to all because to all because to all because to all because I think that I think that I think that I think that I think that I think that I think that I think that I think that I think that I think to all because to all because to all because to all that I think to all that I think to all that I think that I think to all because to all because to Rest in peace. Thank you all. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is a real honour to work in this house for many reasons. One of them I think we all check especially when we see how the Spanish Congress of Deputies is approaching, when they come to visit the Day of Open Doors or, as has happened to us, when they respond to the invitation of the Congress of Deputies to bring us their wisdom, to help us in our work. It is a joy to see with what joy, with what pride and with what satisfaction they decide to come and share with us their experience. That is why it is also fair to take advantage of this intervention to thank once again absolutely all the workers of the Congress of Deputies: starting or ending by the police, by all those who help us in the procedures, with the documentation, the doctors, the nurses, the waiters, the journalists, the stenography service, the photographers, all, ladies and gentlemen. In a special way I would also like to thank Fernando Galindo, the lawyer, for his ability to work, for his patience with all of us, for his wisdom. I extend that thanks to all the lawyers in the house. Certainly also the technicians of the parliamentary groups and the political party teams, who help us so much. And, as President of this Commission, I would like to end by thanking in particular the speakers and Members of all the parties who have participated in this text, the President and the entire Bureau. There is one last impetus, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to move forward because we must now quickly transform this opinion into a legal text. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Cantó García del Moral. For the defence of the particular votes cast, the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Salvador Armendáriz, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to begin by thanking the subcommittee for its work. Of course, the reflections of the twenty-seven participants at those eleven sessions, the conclusions documents and all that is contained in the report as the individual votes are a broad work and in all this we have found suggestions and interesting proposals, but, as I say, it is so broad that we share them and not one another. In any case, I would especially like to congratulate all of them for their work. Yes, I would like to say that my party, the Navarro People's Union, has, since its constitution in 1979, been betting for priority and exclusively public funding apart from the quotas of the affiliates and we advocate the abolition of private contributions, debt cancellations, agreements with private entities both for parties and for foundations and associations linked to them that so many cases of corruption, ladies and gentlemen, have generated as we know. This decision of my party has been transferred many times to this house and we have called for various initiatives to be taken into consideration, but it has not been so. In any case, it does allow us to affirm one thing with pride, ladies and gentlemen, and it is that we are the only party in Spain, an old party with history, that has never had a judicial problem with its financing, never, ever, not the party or any of the people who manage it. In any case, with regard to the report, our first conclusion, shared by many of the experts who participated in this paper, is that it is appropriate to harmonize the current legislation on this subject dispersed in three rules such as the Party Act, the Financing Act and the Electoral Regime Act. We share that recommendation. The second conclusion is the need to insist on the transparency of both sources of finance and internal management or the areas of responsibility of each. We have made progress, it is true, with the implementation of compliance systems and the introduction of ethical codes, but we must continue, ladies and gentlemen, to improve the regulations because today it is still difficult to find the ultimate responsible for a corrupt act hidden after a swarm of internal positions that hide the responsibilities of everyone. I insist, transparency, simplification and clarity of the duties of everyone will be and are the best vaccine to combat corruption. [[The lady]] We also believe that it is urgent to establish a regulation of the lobbies that serves to know which interests each one defends in each case and to whom it represents. We also share the suggestion made by the President of the Court of Auditors that the foundations dependent on the parties should have the same legal regime as these. This, ladies and gentlemen, is important and necessary, as the last report on the control of political parties for the years 2014 and 2015 said, and many examples of this were reported. We believe that we should know in its entirety all the financing of everything that is political party or depends on it. Therefore, also the revenues of the local structures and groups, also all the commercial returns of the assets of the political parties and also the finances and organization of the structures of the parties outside Spain, that it is true that they are true consented black holes that we will try to change. In summary, harmonization, limitation of private financing, greater transparency, regulation of lobbies and new forms of financing and integration of all structures of parties and foundations into the rules of control and control of political parties. In any case, as Mr Cantó said, I thank you very much for the work and the suggestions, but they are so broad that in some of us we are in favour and in others against, so what we are going to do is abstain, beyond repeating our thanks for the work. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuró i Buldó also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to show that the subcommission evidently had three major objectives, as the chairman of the subcommission said. However, two of them, one way or the other, have been aborted. The first was because citizens presented a bill dealing with the issue of corruption whistleblowers and stripped the subcommission of this issue and even transferred its content to the Constitutional Commission. [[Rumors]] Therefore, one of the three objectives of the subcommission, thanks to Citizens, could not be addressed as we committed ourselves. Secondly, there is this report on the financing of political parties. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u85	On this issue, although the work of the subcommittee on such an important and sensitive issue as this one is, and on which it was hoped to be able to obtain a great consensus, citizens, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, three bands, decided to adopt a trilateral agreement, obviating contact with the rest of the parties. We regret this way of acting. [[Rumors]] We would have liked to join in on this issue. At the outset, our group voted negatively on the report of the presentation because it had been excluded from the outset. [[Rumors]] However, after the adoption of the paper's report - in particular I would like to thank Mr Artemi Rallo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for his willingness to reach agreement - we have succeeded in introducing a number of amendments to this report which were important to us, because what they did was to recognize and respect the work that was being done in this area, in particular in Catalonia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u86	Mrs. Ciuro, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, an important part of the debate is still missing. I beg you to let anyone who wants to talk out of the Chamber. The speaker, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó, has the floor only at this time. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u87	Thank you, Madam President. As I said, we were able to accept a number of amendments aimed at respecting the competences of the autonomous communities in this area. In fact, Catalonia has been very active since 2013 in contributing to the financing of political parties, their transparency and the obligation to carry out internal audits controlled by the Union of Accounts. We therefore attached great importance to the fact that the report of this presentation had accepted the recognition of the powers to finance political parties, which was the subject of the Commission. However, now coming from the bench on the right, the report that this time had achieved the consensus of most of the groups in the House, the majority group does not feel right to pull forward. So we know - we hope you change your mind - that it seems to abort the processing of that transactional. We're sorry. Therefore, since our amendments will not finally be included in the text, but if the will of the groups to accept them, we will abstain in order to make this presentation report viable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u88	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u89	Thank you very much, President. The report on the legal regime and financing of political parties, approved by the Commission for the audit of democratic quality and drawn up by the subcommittee set up for this purpose, is subject to debate. It is a report to which the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party will not now support, nor have we done so within that committee and subcommittee, as we bear in mind with the particular vote we have put forward and for the reasons set out in it. Ladies and gentlemen, while it is true that the liberal-democratic systems are articulated on different options and opinions relating to public affairs, which are democratically confronted with the criterion directly of the majority, it is no less true that in certain matters, those which articulate the basic aspects of the system, are aspired to agreements as broad as possible, considering that because they are structural they should not be left to the vagaries of political alternatives in power or, without going so far, to the formation of variable majorities. This had happened to date and since the establishment of the democratic system by the 1978 Constitution with regard to the legal regime of political parties and their financing. There was an almost unanimous view that this issue was one of the elements underpinning the democratic system and, therefore, the broadest possible agreement had always been sought; it could be said that it was close to unanimity. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure since 1978 has not been followed in the report approved by the Commission for the audit of democratic quality which is now subject to approval by this House. That is why the Basque Parliamentary Group voted in particular because it only had the support of the parliamentary groups of the PSOE, of Unido Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Citizens, who represent 188 votes out of 350 in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, this has come about because these three parliamentary groups considered that the debate in the subcommittee was already ripe and exhausted and that it was sterile to continue and therefore to request an extension to continue the work and, if necessary, to reach more consensus. Among them they were already a sufficient majority to adopt conclusions, and so proceeded, renouncing dialogue, mutual divestments with the rest of the parliamentary groups and, ultimately, reaching the maximum consensus, leaving aside those dissents that were ultimately insurmountable. We have been told by the three parliamentary groups that they adopted the conclusions that there was no longer any time left, that the six-month deadline for the subcommission was over and that a report had to be adopted. We don't think so. Within the subcommittee, there had been talk of requesting an extension to reach consensus conclusions, given the complex and far-reaching nature of the legal regime and party funding. Even in the established schedule of meetings of the subcommission, a date after the expiration of the six-month period was provided for, because it was assumed that we would request an extension and that it would be granted because of the importance of the matter under consideration. We wonder and wonder why it is decided to abruptly interrupt the work of the subcommittee when the seventy-five paragraphs that we should examine and discuss had not even been discussed in a first round. We had only dealt with forty-three of the fifty-five matters. We also wonder why we are told that the subcommittee had already been working for thirteen months and that it was more than enough time, when the subcommittee had only been constituted for six months. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliamentary Group believes that the signatories to the report have been impatient in reaching a broad consensus. Although the initial positions were remote in some respects, significant and progressive approaches had been made in advance as the working sessions followed dialogue and mutual divestitures. It is also argued, in order to resolve the discussions, that it was necessary to do so in order to enable the subcommittee to address other issues. Like what? The impartiality and independence of the independent authorities? But if it is that the subcommission today no longer exists! Should this House be set up again at the request of the Committee on Democratic Quality and, if it were to be set up, do you not believe that mutual trust and willingness to reach broad agreements would have been damaged by how it has been decided to cut the work in an abrupt way, presenting them by the signatories to the other groups as something similar to an agreement of accession, with a limited time and peremptory way? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was a working model that was working, there was a spirit of agreement, that was bearing fruit, with difficulties, but fruits, to present an almost unanimous update of the regime and funding of political parties, as had been done since 1978. But, as I said, impatience or other political calculations have thrown him to the ground. That is why this parliamentary group did not give its support in the Commission to the report and will not do so now either, which does not mean that a reflection is not appropriate...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u91	... on the better implementation of the democratic mandate - thank you, President - with regard to the functioning and internal structure of political parties, nor that a reconsideration of their financing, which, in turn, should include the increase of transparency in their financial economic activity, the attendance and publicity in their contracts, a better control of their economic activity and that of their related entities and, without linking it to electoral results, the promotion of other values, to the extent that if the constitution is not militant, the public financing of the parties should not be so. All this - and I am finishing, President - without knowing that in our legal system there have been a number of reforms on the legal regime and the financing of parties which, given the relatively recent situation, have not yet allowed a sufficient assessment of their correctness. We are referring to the reform of the 2015 Criminal Code, to Organic Law 3/2015, on the economic and financial control of parties; to Law 19/2013, on transparency, which obliges parties to a similar extent to a public administration, to fulfil the mandate of active advertising, institutional and organizational information, and to the recently adopted Contract Law, which determines the application to parties of the general principles of recruitment, advertising, attendance, transparency, equality and non-discrimination, also sending them the adoption of internal instructions on recruitment. Conclusions with broad consensus on the legal regime and funding of parties have not been possible, as had been the case since 1978. However, if the promoters of these groups make any legislative proposals on this issue, we will examine it at the moment without prejudice and without the attitude that these same groups have shown with the text that they are now submitting to the approval of this House. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u93	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your speech in Catalan.- applause]] In a Commission as sensitive as this one dealing with issues of corruption, it is very necessary that the conclusions presented in any report reflect as much transparency as possible. In that sense, precisely when we talk about party financing we should be rigorously self-critical, and under no circumstances give an image of benevolence with bad practices, of which we already have experience in different scenarios. Why? Basically, because we play the credibility of the parties themselves, of the structure itself and of the system itself. While Esquerra, in recent years, has made a great deal of management effort to reduce its debt to zero, others have prioritized expanding the party's funding base, even in some cases by not always legal channels, regardless of whether or not this would end up hypothecating its own political action. Of course, we all recognize that there is a deficit in party funding, but the funding model we have is what it is and what needs to be done. Perhaps we could have started from a model like the American one where private financing is a reality, but let us remember that this model starts from levels of transparency that we do not have in this country. Why am I saying all this? Basically, because our main contribution in relation to the foundations of political parties goes in that line. We understand that foundations cannot be a collage, and our impression is that up to now, on many occasions, it has at least seemed like that. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u94	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u95	In a scheme of democratic radicalism, which we share, political responsibility, on the one hand, and transparency in the parties, on the other, are two of the vital points in terms of the functioning of the political system; that the foundations come within the political framework and have the same demands as the political parties are fundamental. We are talking about the same thing and, therefore, the conditions have to be the same. It is precisely the particular votes put forward by our group that focus on amending the wording of paragraph 35 of the report in relation to private sources of funding. We fully share the approaches in the section on financing private foundations, which claims that these foundations must be subject to the same accounting controls and obligations of the parties. In that regard, we fully share it. However, we believe that in order to achieve maximum transparency, the proposal must go much further. Just as political parties cannot receive donations from legal persons, from companies in the end, foundations should also be exempted. We believe that this aspect is fundamental. We understand that if foundations continue to be allowed to receive donations from legal persons, not only do we not solve the problem, but we even generate much more opacity and give the feeling of wanting to keep donations unnoticed. Neither Esquerra nor its Fundació Josep Irla, currently allow donations from legal persons for a basic question of transparency and internal legitimacy. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u96	Wait a minute, Mr. Eritja. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have a crisis of temporary amnesia, but I have just said two minutes ago that I am asking for silence, that there is still an important part of the sitting and that anyone who wants to speak should leave the Chamber. I won't repeat it again. Go on, Mr. Eritja.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u97	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, this is not the first time we have insisted on this criterion. This proposal was already defended by our group the last legislature, in 2015, in the draft organic law on the financing of political parties, and note that, with the exception of United Left, Bildu and Compromís, it was rejected by the rest of the groups. Of majority will, nothing. And again we find the same thing. In the same paragraph 35 we incorporate even a new point at that time which states that donations in kind or in cash should not be allowed to political parties, associations and foundations either, basically because we understand that the donation in kind poses the difficulty of being able to account for the real value of that donation. These are key elements for talking about transparency. With regard to our position on the other particular votes put forward by the different groups, we share the considerations of the Basque Group that they have commented here, and with regard to the particular votes put forward by the Joint Group we would agree if the compromise amendments had been accepted, basically because they deal with important aspects of competition, to safeguard the competence of autonomous meals, in paragraphs 31 and 50. These are basically aspects that we consider to be worth introducing and we would agree. In any case, we will abstain so as not to stop this report from being adopted, but we will abstain basically because we believe that this report has not gone far beyond what could have been achieved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Escudero Berzal has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u99	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislature launched a Commission with such a high-sounding name as the Commission for the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms. The President of this Commission, Mr Cantó, has been forgotten to say that it is called an audit of democratic quality. I am not surprised because, as you have closed this opinion, it is all the less democratic quality. Today we are presented with an opinion that has been drafted in camera, without light or stenographers, with nothing of transparency, with light and night. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if at the moment there is something that requires transparency, it is the political parties. But this new tripartite - Citizens, PSOE-We can - pact in opacity without any decorum and with the argument of the majority, which we have always been criticized for using as a roller. They love to use it, and you all know you use it as soon as you can. Ladies and gentlemen, the document you are presenting is not the result of consensus, it is not the result of all the work that has been done by seven political groups for more than a year and by those who have come here. The document presented here is the mutual interest agreement between three political parties with two objectives: one, more money for the political parties, and two, to close this subcommission as soon as possible because there was news that is of little interest to almost none. There is nothing else, here it is not about controlling transparency or giving more means of control or reforms for participation, no, no, no!None of that. This is about closing this fast. Lords of the tripartite, you are regenerative of nothingness. The People's Party Government has been implementing for years the largest legislative package that has been presented for the prevention, deterrence and punishment of corrupt practices, and this has been recognized by the seventeen representatives who have come to the Commission. Lessons from initiatives in democratic regeneration and transparency, none! None, ladies and gentlemen, and less the Socialist Party, which has already been ruling for twenty-two years and has taken no action against corruption and no measure of regeneration and organization of political parties. [[Applauds]] And with regard to the report, what are we going to say about a report? Four notes: first, that solemnizes the obvious. They say that we are transparent, that funding has to be transparent, that accounts have to be published, that political and electoral programmes have to be published. But don't you guys do this? Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the law says! Secondly, they say that it is a totally interventionist document and leads us to the thought of the vertical union or the single union and that there must be only one way to organize all political parties. But if this is unconstitutional, if our Constitution says we have the freedom to organize ourselves whenever we are democratic in structure and organization! The democratic quality - the audit of the democratic quality, Mr Cantó, your medallion - is diminished, because this report has been approved without light or stenographers, through the back door, in hijackings. We have the disgrace that this is the first time that a political party issue will be adopted in this House without consensus; the first time in the history of Spain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Moreover, it is expensive - very expensive -; it will cost the Spaniards a lot. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, Podemos and PSOE, don't you tell them? Here it is collected that these gentlemen, or that all the political parties if this is then legislated, we will not only take money out of Spanish taxes to make primary, but also then they will have to give us money as a prize for having made primary; they will pay us twice. But they will also pay us to bring women to the lists or to the governing bodies, and in addition the political parties will collect public money, money from citizens, also to train people to carry their accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, when you hire them, take them already formed so that the Spaniards do not have to pay them to train their treasurers or their managers. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, does the law oblige us to be transparent in political parties? Well, no. These gentlemen want citizens to pay them to be transparent, because it must be costly for these political parties to be transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to talk about the political parties, about the current situation since the 2015 legislation, about the new developments that have taken place, but none of you were interested in them. We wanted to regulate the funding they are doing through crowdfunding, but of course, that Podemos wasn't interested in. We wanted this to be regulated and controlled by the National Securities Market Commission, but Podemos wasn't interested. Of course, the Socialist Party was also not interested in talking about the scandalous cancellations of credit by banks, and Citizens did not want to hear about those parties whose accounts are not approved by the Court of Auditors, or who hide data from the Court of Auditors, do not receive the subsidy or are sanctioned; Nor did Citizens want to talk about this. [[Applauds]] You don't want to talk about all this, ladies and gentlemen, why? And here are the reasons: receiving more money is the first goal for political parties and the second goal is that it moves them today. All of them are very concerned about the lack of funding from the Socialist Party and Commitment in Valencia, the judgment of the looting of EREs in Andalusia by the Socialist Party, the millions of euros awarded to entities, families and friends in the municipalities of Podemos, or the financing of Citizens that the Court of Auditors does not approve, or the strange foundations of the Podemos environment! Here's the key, ladies and gentlemen. They wanted to close this subcommission because we were going to talk about all this, and they wanted to keep it covered and so we got the money in our pockets. I trust that Mr Artemi Rallo, as he will speak next, will explain to us a little bit what is happening with the financing of the campaigns of Mr Zapatero and his trading partner and chief, Tximo Puig, in Valencia, because he was a high office at that time, as well as that he will tell us about the two desalinations that took place in his province, Castellón, of which it now turns out that the judicial investigation is saying that many millions of euros that would have to have gone to its construction went to the financing of the campaigns of the Socialist Party and of Compromís. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] You have a chance here, Mr. Rallo, but I'm sure you won't. But don't worry, because you will come to this House, or the other, or maybe both. Don't worry. [[Applauds]] And they don't want us to talk about transparency either. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I still remember Mr Rivera saying to the Spaniards: The Spaniards need to know where their public offices are, who they talk to, who they meet with and what they talk about; it is compulsory. Well, we have collected it, and the report says that it is mandatory to report on the public agenda of all posts. When is Mr. Rivera going to give a press conference to explain his secret meeting with Mr. Sarkozy, accused of corruption, and what did he and an IBEX 35 businessman talk about with whom he has a lot of energy feeling? And when will Mr. Iglesias explain to us the content of the meeting with an independent businessman related to the media and an accused for attempted coup d'état in Catalonia who is today in prison? Are you guys doing all this to keep it from happening? [[Applauds]] Because they're already failing. [[Applauds]] They do not want to talk about primary schools, about Mr Errejón, a candidate for the Community of Madrid, about Mr Cantó - very nice your speech, some beautiful words that have sounded good-bye; we wish him the luck he deserves in the Valencian Community - who has been fired here today, or about Pedro Sánchez's finger to remove and make nominees. Why are your primarys better than ours? Why? Why? Why is Mr. Rivera's finger, Mr. Iglesias' finger or Mr. Sánchez' finger better than Rajoy's finger? [[Applauds]] I doubt it. Of course I'm staying with Mr. Rajoy's, of course. Mr Rajoy's does not cost the Spaniards anything, but his costs them a fortune, because in addition to appointing them then they have to pay to put the official stamp on them that they are candidates. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. I was left to tell you, regarding the subsidies that will be given to the political parties, that they probably want the official payment of the traffic fines that it is doing We can to the high charges -3000 euros; it comes on its website of transparency -. We can have paid with 3000 euros, money from all the Spaniards, the traffic fines of their party organs and their deputies. Perhaps from now on they also want all Spaniards to do this. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We're not going to accept any transactional. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u100	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u101	We, Mrs. Ciuro, don't sell ourselves. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u102	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u103	I ratify all the processing that Mr. PNV has put forward. [[Applause from the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We Can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea. Applause from some Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Laughter]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I have never had a unanimous ovation. [[Rumors]] I suppose many of you applaud because you want them to pay traffic fines and others because they're already assigned to primary schools. [[Applauds]] I suppose that's why they applaud, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u104	One moment, please. It has to end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u105	Everything the PNV partner has said about the procedure I ratify. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u106	On shift... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you once again to remain silent and to feel, without a last name. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are showing this morning that things can be done much better, so I would ask you to maintain all due respect in the time remaining, please. I now give the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Hernández, in the position-setting round, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u107	President, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to inform the House and Mrs Escudero, who is so concerned about our agenda, that yesterday when I left Congress I went to pilates, in case that information seems relevant to her. [[Applauds]] Beyond that, we're here to talk about the opinion on... [[Rumors]] If they leave me, obviously. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u108	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u109	The deal...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u110	Silence, silence. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u111	... for the reform of the regime and the financing of political parties. I regret that the People's Party, when it comes to doing its duties, decides to be angry, to come with the blood burning and above all not to do its duties, because, of course, to explain to the citizens alleged corruptions, masters, etc., etc., I do not know if it gives them laziness or that, having no justification, they cannot do so. Today we have to give a message to the citizens and not just to some citizens. We cannot demand regeneration in the institutions if the political parties do not do the duties, and I therefore believe that this agreement that is brought to the House, this opinion, does the duties. There are seventy-five measures, seventy-five, that seek to eliminate opaque areas, those in which some are so happy to navigate continuously, and to instruct democratic regeneration - more democratic regeneration - which, according to today's speeches, there seem to be some who do not even know what it is about. I will list various measures initiated in this agreement. First, it is necessary to reduce all that legal burden, integrating both the Party Act and the Autonomic Financing Act into a single legal text; less legal bureaucracy or, which is the same, more clarity. The role of the independence of the Court of Auditors must be strengthened, it must be given more powers and resources. There are many dualities, and that is why we believe it is essential to unify the regulation of the public resources received by the various parties. There is one part that is very important: the rules of control, justification and single limits with regard to allocations, including municipal groups. I want to say that the People's Party did not submit accounts for nine hundred municipal groups because it was not in the law, but from now on and thanks to this opinion they will have to answer for those nine hundred municipal groups of which they have not submitted a single data. [[Applauds]] In addition, with this regulation, the party responds to the accounting and also to the Court of Auditors of these municipal groups. So far there were different criteria, each one did what he wanted, and now it will have to be all under one criterion. It is necessary, and we have also said so, to apply to foundations and other entities linked to political parties the same accounting controls that apply to them and, of course, we believe that it is essential to regulate and promote private financing. Crowdfunding, micro-donations and micro-credit systems must be regulated, always supported by the transparency and traceability of all donations received, regardless of the amount. There is a need to improve internal democracy, which some have no idea what it is, and that is why we believe that it is essential that there be such compulsory primary education, and this has been agreed upon in the opinion. It is also necessary for the guarantee bodies to be independent of the party's internal control bodies as well as to be disconnected from the directives, to reform the crime of party financing, etc., etc. One of the points on which I am going to stop, because a priori it seems insignificant but it is very important, try to regulate that there is a single mailing. I would like to remind you that in the second general election we put on the table that in order to reduce costs, to reduce that public expenditure that today Mrs Escudero is so worried about, we could make a single mailing and - things of life! - they did not want to reduce even a euro of public expenditure, because they opposed directly. [[Applauds]] This agreement reached by political parties brings down spending; it brings much more control; it brings transparency; it brings accountability; it brings internal democracy, which - I repeat - some do not know what it is; it brings responsibility. What does that mean? What will the People's Party do with these alleged cases that it has when, through this opinion, the parties begin to be subsidiary responsible for all their corrupt? What's gonna happen? They'll have to see the people inside better. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Escudero said she preferred Rajoy's finger to other fingers. I prefer the finger of the affiliates and militants of my party, who have decided that I am here today. I don't know how they chose it, but I can assure you that I didn't put any fingers on anyone. [[Applauds]] And beyond that, I want to tell you a lot of things. [[Rumors]] Not only do we save on this matter, but we also...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u112	Silence, please, silence. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u113	Thank you, President. Look, with this text we would also save public money and effort and minimize everyone's work. If this opinion had already been made, we would not have the Commission today on the alleged irregular financing of the People's Party. We would not be sitting before a Commission which is not only shameful for those of us who hear what is said there, but also for all the citizens of this country. Yesterday, one of the members of the People's Party said in the Commission that this Commission was incurring public spending because we were all working there, using the House's resources. But it is precisely this Commission that is trying to clarify whether some have spent money on all citizens, not on a Commission, but on other things that are much more reprehensible. Mrs Escudero, on behalf of the People's Party, has told us today what this reform will cost us. I repeat, this reform and this cross-cutting agreement saves itself. I would like Mrs Escudero to explain to all the citizens of this country how much the alleged financing and corruption of the People's Party has cost us. Believe me, Mrs. Escudero, you don't give your fingers to tell. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u114	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Yllanes Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Bon jour, my intention was to come up to this rostrum to talk about something that I think is important, which is the first report of the subcommittee formed within the Commission for the audit of democratic quality, anti-corruption and institutional and legal reforms and to explain a little why the Confederal Group has supported this opinion which is being presented to the House, but after listening to Mrs Escudero's intervention I find it very difficult to work. The first thing that is going to cost us a lot of work is to say no to the particular vote of the People's Party, because we do not know what it is. This has been a catalogue of reproaches and offenses typical of what has been experienced in this subcommission. That is why, Mr Legarda, we would have liked to reach that general consensus to which reference has been made, but, frankly, after listening to Mrs Escudero, spokesman for the People's Party in the subcommittee, do you really think that the spirit that was driving the People's Party was to reach an agreement or consensus? That's a joke and, besides, a joke of bad taste. It is clear - and with your attitude you have made it very clear - that you did not have the slightest intention of reaching any kind of consensus. If this opinion was presented, so criticized and done little less than following obscurantist criteria, it was precisely in the light of the evidence that they had no intention of reaching any kind of consensus and that there were so many things that had been said by the experts who appeared in the Commission that were deeply disturbing to them. I would stress that I could list everything that we do not like in the opinion either, but that is the consensus, where sometimes there are conclusions that you do not like very much, but that, in view of the fact that you see that they can be positive in order to improve the funding and the regime of political parties, you accept them. Why am I saying this? Because I remember that this subcommission had already started with a reproach; the reproach was, clearly, that talking about funding as the first visible activity of the Commission of democratic quality is self-referential and as such will be reproached to us by the citizenry. It will be self-referential, but the CIS barometer of February 2018 has shown us that the second concern of the Spaniards remains corruption and that the third concern are politicians, political parties and politics. It therefore seems obvious that talking about funding and trying to improve the issues that are not yet perfectly regulated was something important and had to be carried forward, and that is what has been done with the agreement. The agreement is the result of the consensus, and the consensus brings with it the difficulty of reaching agreement, although from the very beginning positions are very much found. This is what I believe has been achieved with the opinion that is being put to the vote in plenary today. I say this because this opinion, like all those things that are based on consensus, has cost a great deal of effort on the part of the political groups that made the proposal for an opinion so that the rest of the parties could adopt it. There's nothing for free here. Consensus doesn't come free. Here the only thing that comes out for free, here the only thing that comes out without the slightest effort are titles issued by the University King Juan Carlos to somehow improve resumes simply mediocre. That's a gift. [[Applauds]] That's free of charge. The work that has been done to carry out this opinion, which is proposed for approval by this House, has not been very weak work, but quite the contrary. It has been a clear demonstration that groups with an absolutely different opinion on many issues can agree. Frankly, we chose to talk about the three important elements of the funding proposed by the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. First, as you know, independence. We are a party that has no debt to banks and seeks to avoid bank financing. It is true that this is not fully reflected in the opinion, but it is also true that steps have been taken to ensure that this independence is actually achieved, also in the matter of donations, especially donations from foundations linked to the parties. Secondly, innovation. This issue is perfectly reflected in the opinion since we, who are pioneers in the area of collaborative financing tools, see how the opinion reflects the future regulation of forms of financing such as crowdfunding or microcredits, which are enormously dear to our political organisation. Finally, transparency. It is absolutely sarcastic to say that the proposed opinion and the proposal to finance and change the regime of political parties do not promote transparency. You will see, if there is any term that appears repeatedly throughout the opinion, it is that of transparency, for one simple reason: because we consider transparency to be the main antidote against corruption. That is precisely why it is repeatedly reflected in the opinion. Thus, greater levels of transparency are called for, the modernisation and openness of participation and accountability in successive legislative reforms are called for, the establishment of a participatory, transparent and plural procedure in decision-making in political parties is called for, the obligation of transparency in foundations linked to political parties is implemented, the transfer is set as an inspiring principle of the financial regulation of political parties, the total transparency in the regulation of sources of private financing is committed to a whole chapter of the opinion, chapter VII, on transparency in political formations as an effective mechanism for combating corruption. The speech of the seventy measures we already know from memory, but the truth is that in parallel with this subcommittee which was talking about the financing of political parties we are carrying out a Commission of Inquiry into the illegal financing of the People's Party. Illegal means that it is contrary to the law, not simply contrary to the Criminal Code, and indeed we are going to realize as the sessions of this Commission of Inquiry pass that everything that refers to transparency in funding is not dear to them. We will therefore necessarily have to vote against the particular vote of the People's Party, although we do not know its content, and we will vote in favour of the subcommittee's agreement. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u116	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u117	Thank you, President. Frankly, I do not think that the Spaniards deserve the embarrassing and muddy debate that you have intended and intend to bring us Mrs Escudero's devious and delusional intervention. [[Applauds.-Protests]] And I'm not going into that muddy attempt he wants to take us to. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u118	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u119	The enthusiastic applause we heard here this afternoon - that is, the applause of the People's Party - do you know what reminded me? Do you know what image came to mind? Make a memory! It's not far. Five days, Seville, convention of the People's Party: one minute forty applause. [[rumors]] Who? Who? Who? And do you believe that with today's applause, with the weekend applause, the Spaniards are going to believe something more in politics than what they believe today and where you have taken it? Aren't you ashamed of yourself?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] [[Applauds]] Don't they blush?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[A Member of the European Parliament: Keys]] A council, also to the leadership of the People's Party: to reach agreements, the human factor is also important and the interlocutors are important. In any case, the spirit, the will, the attitude has become well evident. That was the agreement, the great consensus that we could reach today with the People's Party on this matter. That which we have tried with many other groups and which you have obstructed by opposing the handling of the amendments we had agreed. That is the will of regeneration, of dialogue, etc. But I have already told you: I am going to talk about the report. Because the Spaniards don't deserve what you want. [[Rumors]] Thirteen months of work! Thirteen months of work! Twenty-seven expert appearances, eleven deliberative sessions. Today we give that result. The constitutional mandate is unequivocal, ladies and gentlemen: the internal and functioning structure of the parties must be democratic. Take note!, it's important, it's relevant: more democratic, more participatory parties, more transparency, more control. Take note. Take note that the primary, the real ones, are to choose leaders and candidates and are the maximum expression of transparency and participation. Primarys without barriers; a healthy exercise of internal democracy. Take note! Just as the limitation of mandates and parity - the real one - and, more importantly, transparent and controlled funding, which removes shadows of doubts about the legality of party activities, doubts too justified in the light of the continuing scandals that have led this House to have to create a commission of inquiry and to see and hear what we are seeing and hearing over the months and what has already been referred to. A new system of party financing that guarantees sufficient public resources, of course, to ensure the constitutional role of the parties, and that the parties also make efforts to raise public funds to involve citizens, and that constitutional values and principles, of course, are promoted, to ensure parity in the electoral lists, in the governing bodies of the parties, to limit mandates, transparency, to ensure internal control. And primary, of course I do. And more transparency and control, which must be the vectors that guide reforms in party financing. The foundations and related entities must be perfectly identified and must assume identical obligations as those assumed by the parties in respect of accounting duties and financial transparency, ensuring the publicity of their donations, strengthening the role of the Court of Auditors in the control, broadening the control of institutional, parliamentary and local groups, at all territorial levels, so that all public bodies granting aid to the parties inform the Court of Auditors and that the asymmetries in the aid received by the political parties by the administrations, especially local ones, are eliminated and the parties are accountable to the Court of Auditors by ensuring that they are monitored. Parties must ensure full transparency, I repeat, full transparency in donations, staff costs and remuneration of internal officials and public offices. I repeat: in retributions of officials and public offices; in case it doesn't ring a bell what I'm talking about. Strengthen the internal controls of the parties, grant coercive means and sanctioning capacity to the Court of Auditors and, of course, a reform of criminal legislation. For what? To review the very flawed criminalization of illegal party financing that you introduced in 2015 with your own passion for the convert's faith that moves you at this time. The minimum amount of imprisonment must be significantly reduced and the manipulation of party accounts criminalized. It is also necessary for parties that have been financed by acts of corruption of their positions - I say this slowly - to become financially responsible. I'm done, President. Look, a large majority of the Commission of democratic quality, I insist, a large majority of that Commission - which today would be wider if you had not obstructed the processing of these amendments - has considered these and many others to be decisive initiatives in advancing the regeneration of our democratic system. But, unfortunately - today we have seen it clear - the People's Party is not and is not expected, always reluctant and dragging its feet when it comes to dignifying politics. But you know what? Spanish society can no longer wait for them and the quality of our democracy, either. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u120	The votes will begin in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin voting. Vote on the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Act 10/2014 of 26 June on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions, and the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015 of 23 October. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 258 plus 1 telematics vote, 259; abstentions, 78 plus 1 telematics vote, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u122	It shall be taken into consideration. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, INTEGRATED FOR EQUAL TREATY AND NON-DISCRIMINATION. [[File number 122/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u123	We now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is comprehensive for equal treatment and non-discrimination. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336; 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u124	It shall be taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u125	We now proceed to vote on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the defence of the traditional and retail trade. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 165 abstentions, 172.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u126	It's approved. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON IMPULSAR AND FINANCING THE SYSTEM FOR AUTONOMY AND ATTENTION TO DEPENDENCE. [[File number 162/000606]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u127	We now vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to promote and finance the system for autonomy and attention to dependence. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 205 against, 130 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u128	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u129	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the role of Spain in resolving the multiple crises affecting Venezuela. It was voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 164 against, 79 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u130	It's approved. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken to ensure the financial balance of the system of social security. [[File number 173/000085]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u131	We are now voting on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group into the measures to be taken to ensure the financial balance of the social security system. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Esquerra Republicana and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 174 against, 130 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u132	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u133	We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 1/2018 of 23 March, which extends to 2018 the fate of the surplus of local corporations for financially sustainable investments and modifies the objective scope of these investments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 263 plus 1 telematics vote, 264; against, 1; abstentions, 73 plus 1 telematics vote, 74.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u134	It's validated. We now proceed to the vote on the processing as a bill by the urgency procedure of the Royal Decree-Law 1/2018, of 23 March, which extends to 2018 the destination of the surplus of local corporations for financially sustainable investments and modifies the objective scope of these investments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 86 plus 1 telematics vote, 87; against, 251 plus 1 telematics vote, 252.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u135	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 and the situation of the rented housing. We vote in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal parliamentary groups of United Podemos in Comú Podemos in Marea and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour 167 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u137	It's rejected. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the serious restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens residing abroad to vote, as a result of the current provisions of the electoral law and its difficult application by the consular service. [[Lord XUCLA]] [[File number 173/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u138	We voted for the motion following urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà, on the serious restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens residing abroad to vote because of the current forecasts of the Electoral Law and its poor application by the consular service. We shall vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, for points. We shall begin by voting on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 331 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u139	It was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 85 against, 251 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u140	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u141	We now vote on the Commission's agreement on the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms in relation to the subcommission's report on the regime and the financing of political parties. Firstly, we are going to vote on the particular votes held by the groups. We are voting first of all for particular vote No 3 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuró. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 17 against, 182 abstentions, 138.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u142	It's rejected. We now vote on particular vote No 1 of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 15 against, 181 abstentions, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u143	It's rejected. We now vote on particular vote No 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 10 against, 180 abstentions 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u144	It's rejected. We now vote on particular vote number 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 131 against, 190 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u145	It's rejected. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the subcommittee's report. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 180 against, 130 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-12-CD180412.u146	It was adopted. The meeting rose. Thank you very much. It was one and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
