ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the attendance, at our own request, of the President of the Government to the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies to report on the European Council held on 17 and 18 October 2018, which will be dealt with in conjunction with the request of the President of the Government to appear before the Plenary of the House to give explanations on the authorization of export of arms to Saudi Arabia, requested by the Confederal Parliamentary Groups of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and of Republican Esquerra. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u2	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the President has rightly said, I appear before this House in accordance with the agenda for a two-fold purpose. Firstly, to report on the European Council on Article 50, or the so-called Brexit Council, held on 17 October; on the ordinary European Council held the following day, 18 October, and on the Euro Summit; and secondly, at the request of several parliamentary groups, to report on the sale of defence material to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. By that order, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus first of all on the information that the Government wants to transfer to this House in relation to the European Councils and the Euro Summit held last week. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the door of the Brexit. There is no doubt that Brexit is a decision that we regret, as the hundreds of thousands of British people - especially young people - who expressed themselves last weekend on the streets of London against what they consider to be a historical error, a consideration that we share - which I at least share - because it will diminish influence and prosperity to a people that we regard as the British. At the thread of Brexit and before I fully enter the management of the process, they will allow me a brief tour necessary for our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the endogamy of the political debate in Spain, of which we are all hostages, is not surprising. As Brexit approaches, as we witness the enormous implications in terms of citizenship rights, industry, fishing, work, police cooperation, judicial cooperation - ultimately security - tourism, transport, recognition of university degrees; as long as all this happens, Spanish politics remains alien, encapsulated in a circular debate - and I am sure that we will certainly witness it in this appearance too - on the segregation of a part of our country. Who defends this segregation have no conclusions to draw from the Brexit? Doesn't it exist for them? Don't you think it's a decision that goes against the meaning of history? Do you not believe that Brexit is harmful to the whole of British citizenship and to the whole of European citizenship? And those of us who reject precisely this segregation do not see Brexit as the unfortunate consequence of not having made the necessary reforms in the European Union and the United Kingdom? Do we not see the risks of conquering the crisis without offering more political response than mutual reproach in this House? Each and every one of the Members we are represented here has differences on this issue, huge differences, but we also have coincidences, ladies and gentlemen, more than we initially believe. The most important thing on this issue is that each and every one of us here in one way or another shows our commitment to the European Union. We have a clear and unequivocal European vocation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we share the same horizon by force we must also share the same path. Strengthening post-brexit Europe, which we will soon reach, ladies and gentlemen, requires us all to bridge our differences, to dialogue and to forge agreements that strengthen our common project, which is Europe and Spain. If we do, we will be helping our compatriots from each and every one of the peoples of Spain, and that new homeland that is Europe. All that digression that I wanted to put to you at the beginning of the speech leads me to make a proposal to the various parliamentary groups in this House. Let us take note of the mistakes of others, let us learn from the historical error of Brexit for the United Kingdom, let us think about the prosperity of our citizens, let us offer a horizon of harmony to the younger generations. It's more things that unite us than things that separate us. Let us forge new agreements, give priority to the union of Europe and the union of Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Brexit is a disgrace, a misfortune for the British and for the Europeans, that is my opinion, but we must tackle this misfortune in the best possible way, to take advantage of the opportunities that are opened up to us as a result of this, that there are some; the most important, to strengthen Europe through its greater integration, in many areas: defence, social policy, economic and monetary union. I know that in each and every one of these areas there is broad agreement, there is broad support from the House. In the meantime, while this process of greater integration is taking place at European level, what we have to do is to manage the transition from a Europe to twenty-eight to a Europe to twenty-seven, and to do so in a matter of months, something important for all the Member States, no doubt, but in particular, ladies and gentlemen, for us. It defends the ideology that defends itself or is nationalist or not nationalist Brexit touches fully on each and every corner of Spain, on the hundreds of thousands of citizens living in the United Kingdom with Spanish nationality, on the hundreds of thousands of British people living with British nationality in Spain, on the fishing fleets of northern Spain, on the tourism that reaches us to the Spanish uprising, on the means of transport that they use to enjoy the streets of our cities - Barcelona, Seville, Madrid, Valencia, to quote some cities -, on the companies of all kinds that trade with the United Kingdom, on the Community budget that must finance our social and territorial cohesion policies and also on the CAP. There are agreements or not, ladies and gentlemen - believe me that this is the position of the Government, we want agreements to be reached - nothing is going to be the same and we must be prepared for this. Our position is known. The agreement is the best of the ways. This is what we are defending in each and every one of the European Councils, thinking both of collective interests and of what affects a special and essential area for this government, such as people. In this regard, I would like to reiterate once again that the Spaniards who reside in the United Kingdom occupy a central position in this process for this Government. The objective of the Article 50 European Council, as it is called, on 17 October, was for the Heads of State and Government to take note of the withdrawal agreement accepted by the United Kingdom, and to debate accordingly the political declaration of the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Unfortunately, it was not possible, by rejecting the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement. The failure by the United Kingdom to conclude the withdrawal agreement has been mainly and fundamentally caused by its rejection of the so-called Irish backstop issue, and negotiations are therefore still open. The Article 50 European Council reaffirmed, firstly, its confidence in the committee's chief negotiator, Barnier; secondly, the importance of maintaining unity to twenty-seven, giving more time for further negotiations with the United Kingdom, and thirdly, the readiness to convene a new European Council as soon as decisive progress is made in the negotiations, but not before. That is to say, there is probably no extraordinary European Council in November, and let us hope that there will be an extraordinary European Council in December. As you know, there are two possible scenarios for 29 March 2019, which is the date on which the two years have elapsed since the United Kingdom sent the letter requesting its departure from the Union, and the deadline for the negotiation and march of the United Kingdom of the European Union accordingly expires. The first of the scenarios is the exit with agreement, on which the Government works permanently. It would allow an orderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union, with a transitional period during which the acquis communautaire would basically apply to the United Kingdom, although the United Kingdom would no longer participate in the Community institutions or take part in its decisions. The implementation of the withdrawal agreement requires, first of all, ratification by the European Parliament before 29 March, not so by the national parliaments of the Member States - it would only be by the European Parliament - and by the British Parliament. The withdrawal agreement, which did not achieve the political support of Prime Minister May over the past few weeks, provided for a transitional period of 21 months, until 31 December 2020, during which a new agreement for the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union should be negotiated. The second scenario is the one that no one wants, which is that of the exit without agreement. This scenario would mean an abrupt exit from the United Kingdom without a transitional period to adapt and negotiate a new relationship with the European Union. In this context, the Community treaties would cease to apply without further delay on 29 March next year, and urgent measures would have to be taken in the customs, commercial and so on to deal with this new situation. At that point, I will ask for the confidence of this House so that we can make the decisions for the benefit and in the general interest of our country. [[Applauds]] I would like to refer specifically to the main areas of negotiation in their current situation. Firstly, I would like to refer to the fundamental issue for the Spanish Government, which I have pointed out earlier, which concerns Spanish citizens in the United Kingdom. The number of Spanish citizens currently residing in the United Kingdom is approximately 150 000, according to the Spanish consulate register, a figure that can reach around two hundred thousand people counting those who have preferred not to register. The withdrawal agreement - I can tell you - recognises rights similar to those currently existing to British and European citizens residing on the other side. On the other hand, 322 000 British citizens, although it is also estimated that the unofficial figures are higher, reside in our country, the highest figure in the European Union as a whole, which will have to be provided with a new statute for the recognition of their rights. All this is what can happen and what will happen, whether or not there is agreement with the United Kingdom. Secondly, as far as air transport is concerned, the guidelines of the European Council of Article 50 of 23 March this year reflect the need to negotiate with the United Kingdom transport agreements, including the agreement on air transport, which they know are essential for this country. The government wants to ensure the full connectivity of Spain and we will encourage airlines, as we are doing and as was done in the previous phase of the People's Party government, to prepare for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Thirdly, there is little talk about fisheries, but in Spain the consequences of Brexit on the fisheries sector are important. The European Council agreed that an agreement should be negotiated with the United Kingdom to maintain existing reciprocal access to waters and fisheries resources. Both negotiating objectives are very important for Spain, due logically to the relevance of the fisheries sector to the Spanish economy, and in particular to certain regions heavily dependent on the fisheries sector. Fourthly - and this is also not a minor issue - in the area of financial services it must be borne in mind that Spanish banks operate through subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, so they can be considered British banks, and will not suffer a direct impact as a result of the Brexit. We work together with the European Commission - this is something I would also like to announce - so that it can be ensured that our financial operators will work normally at all times. Fifthly, in the area of internal security, Spain's police cooperation with the United Kingdom is very active - it is known and has been discussed repeatedly in this House - and a high level of cooperation and access to police databases should therefore be maintained. Sixthly, with regard to external security, the aim is to maintain a close relationship without the United Kingdom being able to continue to cooperate with the structures of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy. Finally, I would like to convey to the House that Spain has reached an agreement on the Gibraltar protocol - this is something we have already moved, and it has also been negotiated jointly with the chief negotiator, the French Barnier - and we are trying to negotiate the four memoranda of that protocol. If we succeed, well, and if not, too, as for this phase the important thing is the signing of the protocol that has already been reached. [[A Member of Parliament: It doesn't matter!-Rumors]] In any case, we want it to be an agreement that places citizens at the centre of our shared priorities, in a sensitive area such as the Gibraltar Field, with whose development the Government is resolutely committed. I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have contingency plans for any eventuality or possible scenario of those described above - it is our obligation, as the Government takes it - and I would also like to take this opportunity to urge the economic actors, the social actors and also all the institutional actors - you have mayors, mayors, deputy presidents and autonomous presidents - to act in the same way, with own contingency plans to face with guarantees any kind of scenario that can occur from the next 29th of March 2019. Having concluded the explanations on the subjects dealt with in the Brexit Council, they will allow me to give you an anecdote. Some of the European leaders say that one of the main differences between British politicians and European politicians is that the British are twenty-four hours a day thinking about Brexit and the Europeans think four minutes each quarter about Brexit. But what is true - and that is what I would like to transfer to each and every one of the parliamentary groups present here - is that Brexit is approaching. Brexit is a decision that is going to change our relationship with the United Kingdom, which is also going to change the process of the historic construction of the European Union, which is going to have enormous economic, social and political implications for the whole country, and I would like us to take all these scenarios into account and we could bring about a fruitful debate in that regard in defence of the general interest of our country. As I said before, after the explanations on the subjects dealt with in the Brexit Council, I shall go on to detail the contents and conclusions of the ordinary European Council. As you know, this Council was focused on matters of particular relevance to our country. I will refer separately to each of them, to the three major blocs that focused the talks - migration, security and external relations - although I would like to do so under a common premise, which I believe is important to stress again in a hearing like this, and which is consistent with the one I have already presented in this House with the aim of my appearance before the European Council. The Government is firmly committed to the European project. This is the philosophy with which we approach each and every one of the issues dealt with at these important meetings, with their continued development, beyond mere invocation of principles of a rhetorical nature, because we believe that it is increasingly clear that the great risks and challenges we face can only be met with guarantees from the broadest possible approach; an approach from which Spain has always been a strong defender. The Government feels indebted to this Europeanist spirit, which is fully consistent with the wishes of the vast majority of Spanish society. That is why we have always called for a European perspective that is present in the migration challenge to which the Mediterranean countries and South-Eastern Europe are very directly exposed. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that in this matter the Government has maintained from the outset the need to articulate a position that will combine responsibility and solidarity. We are facing a challenge of potentially divisive implications for our societies, we are seeing it in other countries of the European Union, especially if we allow partial visions to occupy the public space from the rhetoric of xenophobia and confrontation. That is why I will not tire of appealing from this rostrum to the responsibility of all political forces to face the migration challenge with rigour, fleeing from any partisan temptation, because opening that door has devastating consequences on the great consensus that they have made, both for society and for the whole of businesses, politics and harmony in these four decades of democracy. In that regard, the fact that this Council has given a leading role to the issue of migration and its challenges, in my view, is a very positive achievement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the attention that this Council has devoted to the need to redouble its efforts in the fight against networks of illicit trafficking in persons, which is one of the most relevant conclusions of this Council and implies the need to intensify cooperation with third countries in the investigation, detention and prosecution of traffickers. In the same vein, I would like to refer to one of the aspects that I have defended most resolutely, which is the need to intensify cooperation with the States of origin, transit, as a fundamental element of a comprehensive European migration policy. In a unique way, and with regard to the effectiveness of returns, the Council's conclusions certify the common will to include dialogue on this issue in a framework in which other instruments, such as legal migration channels, visas and a relationship of economic, social and cultural collaboration with North Africa, are present; all this in order to move forward in a broader partnership framework with each and every one of these countries. Finally, Spain considers it very positive that the migration challenge is triggering a mobilisation of resources and an update at European level that highlights what we have always said, that in the face of a phenomenon of this dimension a European perspective is necessary. In that regard, I would like to inform the House of the support of the Government of Spain for the proposal of the President of the European Commission to establish an alliance with Africa, in order to address the root causes behind the tragedy of irregular migration. [[Applauds]] That is the strategy the Government is defending, combining mechanisms to improve border control systems with the search for agreements with countries of origin in the short term, and the long-term development of basic social sectors such as education, health, infrastructure and women's empowerment in Africa. In the same vein, Spain expressed its support for the proposal by the President of the Council, Donald Tusk, to hold a European Union-Arab League summit in February 2019. It is another opportunity to move forward on the objectives I have just detailed and I am convinced that the majority of the House shares. Finally, I would like to focus more on the role of a strategic actor for Spain in migration policy, such as the Kingdom of Morocco. As you know, it is the western route that has seen the most increase in the number of entries in the last year; twice as much as the central route, and nine times as much as the eastern Mediterranean route. In this Council I defended the need to promote a plan to accompany Morocco by the European Union, an agreement in the medium and long term to address the challenges posed by this phenomenon for a country with which Spain has important links in all areas, economic, social, commercial and affective. Last week, while the Council was being held, there was an important meeting, in the opinion of the Government of Spain, between the Government of Morocco and the European Commission, in which the Government of our country also participated; a meeting of very positive results, ladies and gentlemen. As a most relevant achievement, progress has been made in drawing up a plan for the disbursement of European funds to support Morocco's efforts to control migratory flows on its territory. We are talking about EUR 140 million between what is left of this year and 2019, an amount already approved, which is a direct consequence of the proposal, at the initiative of our country, which I defended at the first European Council in June, which is to highlight the role of the Kingdom of Morocco in controlling migratory flows and combating irregular migration. [[Applauds]] In short, this Council is the tangible proof that efforts are being made to build a truly European migration policy, in which the Spanish Government has played an important role; that it logically combines measures - I insist - of border control, dialogue with countries of origin and transit, and actions to achieve in the long term the impetus to the development of the African continent. The second of the major issues dealt with in the Council referred to internal security, and I shall refer to it below. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the European Union has made great strides in an area where cooperation is more necessary than ever, given the entity and the nature of the new threats affecting democratic societies such as ours. We have adopted relevant legal texts on the registration of passenger names in aviation security, the fight against terrorism, and a high common level of network and information security. Nevertheless, there is a need to further strengthen deterrence and resilience mechanisms against cyber and hybrid threats, as well as chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, this Council has called for measures to combat illicit computer activities and to strengthen cybersecurity in the face of attacks of this nature. For Spain, the need to protect our democratic systems in a context marked by the proximity of the European elections, always with full respect for fundamental rights, is particularly pressing. It is important that we are all aware of the impact of misinformation campaigns on electoral processes, and that is why we are waiting for the action plan for a coordinated response from the European Commission, in line with the conclusions adopted by the European Council last June. It was also decided at this Council that the European Commission's proposal to prevent the dissemination of content related to terrorism should be considered as a matter of priority. We must find solutions to ensure cross-border cooperation with which to effectively combat terrorism and other forms of organized crime, such as money laundering, mainly in the area of electronic evidence. As you know, Spain is part of the enhanced cooperation created by the European Public Prosecutor's Office; I have supported President Juncker's proposal to extend the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office to the issue of transnational terrorism, and the Spanish Government has also insisted on the need to take a step further to include trafficking in human beings among its future powers. The Council, ladies and gentlemen, also addressed the need to strengthen the interoperability of our databases to combat crime and terrorism, and this is an essential measure to strengthen the effectiveness of our police services. And to conclude this chapter, I will refer to the European Civil Protection Mechanism, which has been something that we have promoted and led from the Spanish Government, and not only from this Government, but also from the previous one. This is, as you know, a Spanish initiative with a particularly symbolic field, a matter in which the link of citizenship is strengthened at a key time for the future of the Union. And at this point I would just like to recall the memory of the deceased firefighter in Malaga, and of course also the memory of the citizens who died in Balearic Islands. [[Applauds]] Important steps have been taken in this Council, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude negotiations at the end of the year - at the end of the year - on the proposal in which the European Commission is working on civil protection. Finally, in order to conclude the matters relating to the European Council - I am sorry, but they were three councils in one - I shall refer to some questions relating to external relations. I have mentioned the commitments made on the African continent by the European Commission, which we certainly support, and I would just like to stress in this regard the fundamental importance that these relations have for the Member States. It is about advancing cooperation through means such as the European Foreign Investment Plan and the European Union Trust Fund for Africa. Only from this approach, with a new partnership between Africa and Europe for investment, for sustainable jobs, for local economic development, can we give a new dimension to a crucial relationship for the two shores of the Mediterranean that will mark policy over the next decades. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the scope achieved in this Council with regard to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, which you know is a commitment of this Government. I consider this document and the sustainable development goals the framework for a new global social contract - and I defended it in the United Nations General Assembly - which the European Union must bear in mind in its work. At this Council, Spain has successfully defended the need to move forward with a strategy for the implementation of this cross-cutting agenda in each and every European policy. With regard to the fight against climate change, I would like to inform the House of Spain's strong support for the inclusion of the final points on this subject and the COP24 summit, which will take place in Poland in December this year. It is a key meeting to adopt the rules for the development of the Paris Accords, ambitious and comprehensive rules to move forward in what is - this convinced - for the majority of the House one of the fundamental objectives on which to place greater emphasis, which is to look at the energy and ecological transition of our economy as a means of modernising the European economy. And this while we conclude with the agreements reached without further delay or excuses. We play a lot in this challenge and logically it's time to act. Finally, I wanted to make a brief mention of the European Union-Asia summit, which also took place last week. [[ASEM]] Spain was present with delegations from fifty-one countries united in the aim of renewing Europe's strategic alliance with Asian countries. Significant progress has been made in the area of sustainable connectivity, strengthening bilateral relations between the two fundamental poles for global development, and I would like to inform you that Spain will host the ASEM Foreign Ministers' Summit next year, which was appreciated by all the countries of the two continents. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on the same day, 18 October, we also held an important summit, to which I would like to attach the same importance in my speech as the Brexit, which is the Euro Summit. The aim of this meeting was to prepare for the next Euro Summit in December, where we will - I hope - take important decisions in the architecture of Economic and Monetary Union; an appointment to move forward on key issues for the reform of the euro area, such as the banking union and the reform of the Stability Mechanism, the MEDE. But, ladies and gentlemen, economic and monetary union will not be complete - and this is what I also advocated at the Euro Summit - if we do not launch fiscal union. After ten years of great sacrifices by European citizens, particularly by the citizens of the southern countries and by Spanish citizens, it is time for the European Union not only to provide solutions in the financial and banking fields, which are undoubtedly important, but also in the social sphere. Spanish society continues to maintain a clear Europeanist vocation, and this House is a faithful reflection of what I say. The Government assumes that mandate as its own, and it does so out of conviction, because it believes in the validity of the values on which the Union is founded, but also because it is in the interests of our own country, our economy and our citizens. Therefore, at this summit I put on the table the proposal to create a European unemployment insurance system that complements the existing national unemployment protection systems; a system that guarantees a level of protection for citizens in times of difficulty and as a tool for stabilising the economic activity currently lacking in the euro area. [[applause]] It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to move forward with proposals for social content, not just financial content, which have as their ultimate and primary target the people, especially those who need it most. It is necessary to strengthen the European project at that level in order to recover the lost ground at a time when inaction results in growing disaffection on the part of citizens. It is not only a message of content and economic implications, which has them, it is undoubtedly, but a mechanism of political scope at the service of a crucial idea for this government when we talk about European construction, and it is to relaunch the concept of European citizenship that today question those who deny the very essence of Europe. We are going to work decisively on this initiative in the coming weeks so that it can begin to deliver tangible results at the next summit in December, and I do not hide the enormous satisfaction I have with knowing that we can move in that exciting direction for this government with the majority support of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to address the issue of defence exports to Saudi Arabia. Spain has a complete legal framework and good practice in this sector. I'd like to start here. It was precisely a socialist government that promoted the rule of key legal rank in our legal system, which is the Law 53/2007 on the control of foreign trade in defence and dual-use materials, a regulation that conforms to the most demanding international standards in a particularly sensitive matter such as this and that represented a notable improvement in the field of control and transparency in the trade in defence materials. Spain is working in this area by following other applicable instruments, of which I would like to share with you three. The first, Common Position 2008/944 within the framework of the European Union, introducing strict criteria to follow; the second, the OSCE document on small arms and light weapons of October 2000 and the third, the guidelines emanating from international non-proliferation forums. The export authorization for defence and dual-use materials is therefore subject to comparable requirements, and I also stress, if not higher - I repeat, if not higher - than those existing in any other country in our environment, which logically does not exclude the possibility of improving this system to provide it with additional guarantees of verification. And on that line, I would like to convey to you the following announcement and the next commitment of our Government and it is that of putting forward a proposal that puts us at the head and that will be a pioneer in verification and transparency controls. Ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware of the special circumstances surrounding this debate following the revelation of recent events that have dismayed international public opinion. I must tell you that I too share that rejection and dismay and revulsion at the terrible murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. [[Applauds]] The Government has expressed this publicly since the first minute, on the United Nations side and on the European Union side. Our position is clear: investigation to clarify the facts and to act justice so that the full weight of the law will fall on those responsible for this terrible crime. Ladies and gentlemen, however, the gravity of these events, which are terrible and which I condemn without palliatives, cannot and must not prevent us from acting responsibly. The export of arms is a clear example, ladies and gentlemen, of the complexity of policy and the difficulty of carrying out ideas without taking into account the need for agreements and understanding the priorities of public management. I have always believed that politics is trying to turn ideals into realities. It cannot always be achieved or sometimes it takes longer than anyone could wish, especially when the speaker has been in charge of the Government of Spain for a little more than four months. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, is there any doubt about the principles of the progressive mayors of the Bay of Cadiz regarding militarism and the defence of world peace? I do not doubt and yet live with a more immediate priority not sought and are the workers of Navantia and their families, and I understand it. This Government makes and will make every effort to defend multilateralism, human rights, peace and freedom. We do so and we will continue to do so, as we also take into account Spanish companies operating in third countries, also in Saudi Arabia, Spanish citizens and the need to maintain their economic livelihood. I therefore ask you to take into account the weight of international relations built for decades with countries with which we have strategic economic and commercial relations in many cases arising from the actions of previous Governments. This is the case with regard to the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia, which ultimately motivates the request for this appearance. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the export licences for that operation were authorised on 13 November 2015 and their validity was extended twice, in the years 2016 and 2017. Therefore, we are talking about contracts in force that meet the requirements of the applicable regulations in our country and that do not conflict with UN Security Council Resolution 2216 of 2015. A resolution that establishes an arms embargo on a number of people and entities involved in the Yemeni coup d'état - in a complex geopolitical environment, which they do not miss, ladies and gentlemen - but not on the countries of the Arab League that are part of the coalition, as is the case with Saudi Arabia. These are therefore obligations undertaken by a previous Government which I chair, but which nevertheless meet the legal requirements at the national and international level, especially with regard to the pronouncement of the United Nations. It is therefore my duty to ensure legal certainty and to give certainty in the fulfilment of Spain's international obligations, especially in a complex context such as the transfer of powers from one administration to another. Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Government, I defend the interests of Spain and assume these international obligations in both this and other matters, and I do not look back, but forward. I understand that the interest of others is to look short or look for conflicting interests to create artificial conflicts, but I cannot afford that path. And I understand, therefore, that it represents my responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, that I must reconcile interests from a perspective that others do not have for the position they do not hold. I do so by defending the interests of the Spaniards, with full autonomy and always with the obligation to put the view in the long term, with the certainty that there are few areas such as this, that of foreign policy, in which the need for a state vision is more necessary and more justified. That is why I have appealed and again appealed to the consensus of this House to safeguard from the partisan debate an issue that requires a broad strategic vision in defence of the general interest of our country. That is why I advocate the need to build great agreements in international politics, in order to strengthen the external image of a country like ours, which is exemplary in defending human rights, freedoms, which is committed to peace and which deeply respects international legality. [[Applauds]] I understand that others may be interested in mixing discussions with other interests and ends, I understand that logic from the party approach, but I cannot afford that luxury, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Politics is the art of reconciling interests often in conflict, and today I ask this House to be able to clearly discern those interests in conflict and to think about what matters most to the whole of Spanish society. They are well aware that the Government is working with the view on a broad horizon. I have often referred to the need to modernise our economy, to move forward with an industrial policy that helps internationalize the presence of our companies, to transform, in short, a productive model that does not take advantage of all our potentials or develop the talent in innovation that we have as a country. The first step in this direction is that of budgets that are committed to stability, job creation and the fight against inequality, but that have an impact on the need to reverse years, years and years of cuts in science, education and R & D+i in order to face the next decade without the last decisions that we are tired of not being at the forefront. Because there's no reason not to be there, at the forefront. I also want Spain to lead foreign trade in sectors linked to the technological revolution, ladies and gentlemen - of course I do - sectors that have to do with global goods in fields such as medicine, robotics, the fight against climate change, energy efficiency or automotive. That's why we're reversing educational reforms that massified classrooms and seriously affected public education, that's why we're reorienting scholarship policy, that's why we're increasing the endowment in i+D+i, that's why we're reviving the international agenda to the height of what this country deserves at this time change. But if you ask me to tell you where I have to be today and here, it is, ladies and gentlemen, in the defence of the interests of Spain and the work of strategic sectors, many of them located in areas very affected by the tragedy of unemployment. There will be my Government and there I will be as President of the Government, and I ask all of you to take a look at this vision. Thank you. [[applause.-A lady reads a text from the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u3	I request the House of Commons to remove the rostrum, please. [[Pause]] Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez, let us begin with the first thing: you have come here to a trap of appearance of control, you have come to account for the mandatory appearance after the European Council, after you have refused to appear in this House for all the issues we have proposed to you since you are President of the Government. He could have appeared, for example, to see what was happening to his Government; he had two resigned ministers and had not given explanations for two others who were failing to meet their own standards of demand of responsibilities to politicians in hiding property, having property-related instrumental societies. Or, for example, another who has had privileged information when moving values in the company in which he was, according to the CNMV not according to the People's Party. Or, what is more bloody, to a Justice Minister who participated in meetings with a police sewer structure in which she learned of crimes and did not go to report them and, moreover, for her comments, was a participant in these secure successes of prostitution networks to blackmail entrepreneurs, politicians and journalists. [[applause]] And you haven't given a single explanation. That government with so many ministers, that government so beautiful that you now use human shields so that you don't have to explain or that you don't have to assume responsibilities, falls to pieces. He could have come to the House too to account for his doctoral thesis. [[Laughs.-Several ladies and gentlemen: That's you!-Applause]] We requested it here, in the Lower House, we did it also in the Senate. All you're doing is sending burofaxes to the media to stop publishing the increasingly clear evidence, sending the police to the media too to try to requisition audiovisual evidence, and already the top is trying to accuse the opposition or the media because they simply ask you for the explanations you've always asked for. I could come here, for example - and we ask in the People's Parliamentary Group - to talk about what is happening in Catalonia. You come here to say that you are not in favor of segregation. It is a very curious term, it must be the new interpretation of the nation of nations. The segregation of what? You're sitting there on the blue bench thanks to the votes of the independence parties. But how do you come here to talk about brexit when you are the ally of those who want to break Spain? How does this government have the defachability of coming here to reflect on the British when they are being held hostage by the coup parties? [[Applauds]] Moreover, when they are sending emissaries to jail to negotiate the budget, which is the most important law in this House. [[Applauds]] Who do you take us for, Mr. Sanchez? You didn't want to show up here. You send your vice president to say that what Torra says you have to attack the state is an unfortunate phrase. You send Mr Ábalos to say that on 1 October the kale borroka that we saw is simply an absorptive matter. You also send Mr. Borrell to say that Catalonia is a nation, and you say it in the BBC. You send Mrs. Batet to say that she would like the prisoners, the political coup prisoners, not to be in jail. You send Mrs Cunillera to say that if you ask for a pardon, the government will agree to give it to her. You, who are throwing judges at your defence of the rule of law in Spain, come here to talk about Brexit and say that segregation is not possible and that we spend four minutes a day talking about Britain? Do you not realize that you are a participant and responsible for a coup d'état that is being perpetrated right now in Spain? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u5	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u6	Don't you realize that you have that seat thanks to the Republican Left, thanks to the PDeCAT, thanks to the Podemos having lent you your accommodation in the Moncloa? Do you not have the decency to say here, at least to recognize it: listen, look, no, I'm not talking about Brexit; I'm talking about my project of investiture, which is being negotiated by my vice president Iglesias, is it precisely that Catalonia is independent? Or are you going to keep sending encrypted messages from the radio? Make a self-determination consultation. But what self-determination? We are in the state - you also learn, now that you are going to Europe - more decentralised than the European Union, we have more competences than the German Länder, we have more decentralization than any other country in our environment, and is here to reflect on what is happening in the United Kingdom? Is the one proposing a negotiated referendum talking about the referendums in the United Kingdom? By the way, are they allowed there and there is no Constitution that prohibits it? In Spain there is a Constitution whose approval is now fulfilled forty years, there is no need to go to concerts, we have to defend it - we have to defend it - and what it says is that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people as a whole, in the two Chambers, not only in this one, also in which you - how did you say? - prestige without your presence in the Senate. So why haven't you come to appear on Catalonia? I am going to talk to you about Catalonia because it is also an issue that matters in the European Union. When I go to party meetings in the European Union, I do not, as you say, speak ill of Spain; you did so when you failed to fulfil the commitment of all the European parties and voted against Juncker and Schulz, your colleague Schulz, the only Socialist Party in Europe who voted against the parliamentary pact was Mr Sánchez; the only one who voted against the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, and then took pictures with Mr Trudeau. [[applause]] Learn from him, not just from the pictures. You were the only one - I was there, in that Commission of the European Union, and you were too - who put the TTIP, the Free Trade Agreement with the United States at risk. Now you're coming to talk about responsibility? Those who called us canned patriots, those who spelt our budgets, those who said we cut the public deficit too fast after the bankruptcy they left us? Do you teach us lessons now? Well, what the European Union is saying is what you are being told, which concerns us about the budgetary, political and territorial drift that is now taking place in Spain. I spoke in political terms with my party partners, which, by the way, is what they are asking us. But let us talk about the Brexit and the European Council, since you do not come to talk about these three issues that have been asked of you, so much so that you talk about institutional respect and that spurious majority - as we can say - that we have in the Senate or what the Bureaux of Congress and the Senate are doing at the command of not knowing which party. Were you not the ones who said just four months ago that this was Parliament's legislature, which was also governed by Parliament with this Bureau? Were they not the ones who said that this minority meant that the People's Party did not have the roller to be able to govern and that it was necessary to govern from Parliament? The same Bureau as it currently exists. But, as I was saying, let's talk about Europe. In Europe, the General Budgets of the State are of concern. I already know that you have a dream team in economics: your vice president, who is the one who gives you notes, who is the one who said that public money is nobody's; your economic vice president, Mr. Iglesias, who has advised in the ALBA countries with a result that everyone knows in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador; your minister of finance, who after excellent management in Andalusia - there is nothing more to see the figures of unemployment, deficit and public debt - has decided to do the same at national level. [[rumors]] [[applause]] And then he comes to give us budget lessons. You received public accounts that grew to 3%, that had created almost 3 million jobs, with record collection. This year will be €400 billion in all administrations, 200 000 in the Tax Agency alone, i.e. more than 20 000 more than the previous year, of which more than 12 000 are only in the Tax Agency. You had budgets that were already expansive, 4 billion euros more for the autonomous administrations, had the rise of the minimum wage agreed with the unions and the employer. I don't know what you'll think about the modifications you make to those new Moncloa 2.0 pacts, or rather, Miraflores Palace pacts that you've made to drum and platter. That is very good for him, the photos of the covenants: the pact of embrace, the pact of the statue in Moncloa. I don't know what for, because Mr Iglesias was calling for an expansion of spending of EUR 15 billion and his minister has said that he doesn't worry, that just by proposing EUR 6 billion they will already lower it, they will already make a kind of discount to meet the 1.3 of the European Union. With this, you deceive even the person with whom you sign the budget pacts. What I was going to. You received a healthy country, we came from a public deficit of 10%. That 10% we have lowered to 2.2; you fail to do it to 2.7, and now you say that the deficit path approved by this House does not want to meet it: instead of 1.3 you want to go to 1.8; instead of being next year at 0.5, you want to climb it and practically double it. Do you know the cost of not reducing the public deficit with the international uncertainties we are seeing? Are you aware that since arriving in Moncloa the risk premium in Spain has doubled? And you'll tell me about Italy. True, in Italy it has almost tripled, but in France it has only risen from 25 to 37. Therefore, the problem is that you are seen as a toxic administration like the Italian one. If it didn't happen to him like France, his risk premium wouldn't go up that high. [[Applauds]] Now that you are proposing EUR 6 billion of expenditure expansion, are you aware that with 1 more point in the interest of debt, to understand us, 100 basic points of risk premium - I insist, you have now risen 40 - you are already taxing debt interest by EUR 10 billion? He'll tell me, well, as soon as he's renovating. Well, you do the annual extrapolation. I mean, what you're proposing, probably for lack of credibility, it doesn't even come to be an expense that reaches the Spaniards. I have already said that it was unnecessary, but it is likely, because of the loss of credit from the Administration, because of its defaults in deficit and debt, it will not arrive. You said that we were doing an irresponsible policy, that in Brussels they were going to say that this budget was stupendous, and they said no, that it did not comply with the deficit and debt reduction commitments, that you were sending for the first time a text that was not adopted in Parliament and that that text could also be diverted to what this House could do. It's all right, it's all right, isn't it, minister? So, we don't go through the Senate, let's see if we're doing a rinse to amend that Stability and Sustainability Act, so we'll already fail because as of March 2020 we won't know what we've failed, we already have my PlanE. Exactly what Zapatero did. I told you last week that you are a replica of Zapatero, you copy, cut and paste what Zapatero did. In 2009 the legislature was completely over. What did he do? The PlanE: EUR 12 billion for sidewalks, for paper mills, for very large posters, for a two-year election campaign, which is what you want to do right now at the expense of economic recovery, taxes, spending and budgetary dignity in this country. [[Applauds]] Brussels has already said that this budget you have to change. I'm sure he's coming to say, well, they're worse in Italy and they might end up approving it; in short, I'm going to keep spending. What have you done? This reminds me of what Reagan said, his government is like a baby, it has an insatiable feeding canal on the one hand and the absolute absence of responsibility on the other. [[Laughter]] That's what your government does. What you propose is to extend public spending as much as it takes. That's right, to put forward an income forecast that doesn't fit. You say that you are going to raise EUR 12 billion through technology fees when they are estimated to be 4000 throughout the European Union. How does that figure work? You say that with the financial transactions he's going to collect I think it was 800 million. Yeah, but that would come in - and I think it's a bad idea - by 2020. You say that you are going to raise with the high income of capital - that is, with the IRPF in the maximum tranche and the property tax - 600 euros; therefore, pay the rich, right? It turns out that no, that's less than they're going to collect with the diesel tax, that they pay 17 million diesel drivers. [[Applauds]] Or are those who have a diesel vehicle rich too? Are you saying that you are not going to affect work, and the 3 million self-employed, who have already told you that you are going to tax the contributions, that you are going to have to pay up to 400 euros a year more for those taxes you create? I now remember that anecdote of Olof Palme, of the Social Democratic Alliance, when it was General Otero, that of the Clave Revolution, to visit him and Olof Palme asks him: General, how is the revolution going in Portugal? And he answers: All right, we're killing all the rich. To this Mr Palme answers: for he does not cease to surprise me; we want to put an end to poverty. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández: All right!]] That's what we want, to end poverty, not the rich. [[Applauds]] I wish a lot more people were rich, I wish there was more prosperity, more employment, more businesses, more innovation, more entrepreneurs in Spain. But you always do the same: we have already recovered Spain, we are going to refinance the election campaign by destroying the economy once again. Therefore, neither the revenues nor the expenses are squared, and above all what does not square is the plan that you have for Spain. And the problem we have is that right now we're not joking. You will tell us that public debt has increased a lot, also when we ruled. I'll explain it to you, so you know. It grew because of him. Why? Because I'm leaving us a 9% deficit. If you add up to the public deficit - which, in your opinion, we were going to reduce very quickly - you will get 42 points. What a coincidence!, the 42 points that increased public debt. And if any economist in that cabinet who has an economic dream team say to him: man, that is not directly proportional - true -, I take from the drawer and carpets what you hid: the debt in the tariff deficit, which I already know does not compute as public debt, but the infrastructure, yes the health, yes the supplier, yes the FLA. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]] Therefore, the public debt went up because we paid their bills and still, according to you, we did it very quickly. But, when he learned the figures, he said at the end of his speech: We came to end seven years of cuts. Have you read that in the government of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy the expenditure increased by 26 billion euros? It was EUR 26 billion. [[Ms. Belarra Urteaga: It's a lie!]] We could assess exactly whether it seems appropriate to you or not, it seems that the Spaniards do because that has generated three million jobs after a government that generated four million unemployed. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we create jobs, lower taxes, so we will collect more and the virtuous circle of the economy will be activated. [[Applauds]] We do not want another recession, Mr Sánchez, we do not want once again, after 1996, after 2004, the Socialist Party to leave us a molten, ruined, broken country. We do not want Spain to go from being the pride of the whole of Europe in how we are doing things to being a concern again, that we will be back in the debates about how Spain has to do things better. We remain in the European environment. I do not know whether you have spoken to your Community partners - I do - about Euro-Orden. I am very concerned about the Euroorder and have told you that we do not want to see Spain humiliated by regional courts in Belgium, the Netherlands or Germany without us doing anything, without your Government doing absolutely nothing. I will put to you a proposal that we will make formally. Between the thirty-two measures or types that have automatic delivery, you propose sedition and rebellion. There is, automatically, rebellion and sedition and so criminals who escape from Spain will not have to be at the dawn of a German or Belgian regional court that gives them to us because that is Schengen, mutual trust between nations. [[Applauds]] Protect the dignity of our country. Have you spoken in the European Union about what is happening in Catalonia, Mr Sánchez? Have you mentioned that you are negotiating public accounts with coup prisoners? Have you mentioned that you are bridging or giving directions to the media - I don't know what you will do in private - about what judges have to do, about what suits you? Who also receives instructions about what the prosecution has to do? What are they directly blackmailing you - as did Esquerra Republicana before yesterday - saying that there will be no budgets if the prosecution does not agree to what we are asking of you, which is exactly that they withdraw the accusations? Are you explaining exactly why Spain has to suffer that humiliation that the coup prisoners and the independence parties decide the public accounts, the future of our children, just because you want to stay one more week in La Moncloa? I did tell my party partners and I told them more things too. For example, you have spoken about the Brexit and you have said in text that if you remember the Gibraltar issue well and, if not, also. Is that your political philosophy? Everything, the budget, that of Catalonia, that of the Basque Country, that of Navarre? [[Applauds]] I mean, if the subject comes up, well, and if not, so does. Let us see, Mr Sánchez, the subject of Gibraltar for the People's Party is a red line. We are facing the historic opportunity after three centuries that what the United Nations mandates, which is the decolonization of the last remaining colonial enclave in Europe, will be effective through Brexit. Let's put things in place. Gibraltar is not a British territory, it is a territory that depends on its external and diplomatic powers in the United Kingdom. Therefore, as we agreed in 2017 for all European countries, once the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, Gibraltar cannot have any status related to the Union if it does not first go through an agreement between the United Kingdom and Spain. So much so that Mrs May sent a letter to Mr Tusk saying - read it, last folio - that the only land border that the United Kingdom has with the European Union is precisely that which it has with Ireland. However, you come, your minister comes to say that Gibraltar is not going to be a stone on the road, that Gibraltar is not going to be the last stumbling block of negotiation. But has anyone asked you not to, or why did you ask? He said that we are going to ask that they do not continue to traffic in tobacco smuggling, that they do not continue to bunker or pollute the coast, that they do not continue to have an absolutely illegal tax system. Man, I was just missing! If you want what we do now, we set up the casino directly. No, what needs to be done is to follow the negotiations that the Spanish Government has put forward with the People's Party and to say that, in fact, there is a proposal for co-oberanism that is good for all parties. We proposed several points that were good for Gibraltar and were also good for the inhabitants of the Gibraltar Field, for the United Kingdom, for Spain and for the European Union. We said there was co-oberanism, we said there could be dual nationality, that is, those Gibraltarians who had British nationality could have Spanish nationality at the same time; we also said that a special economic area could be made between Gibraltar, the Gibraltar Field and Ceuta to compete precisely with Tangier, on the other side of the Strait; we also said that investments had to be made in the Gibraltar Field, because, let us not forget - now that there is Andalusian campaign at best to you are misinformed - Gibraltar is currently either the third or fifth per capita income territory in the world, depending on the analysis being used. However, the Campo de Gibraltar has a sixth of that income and is one of the most depressed areas in Andalusia, Spain and Europe. Something's failing. Therefore, would it not be better if we could invest in the Gibraltar Field and remove the fence and therefore Gibraltar would benefit because it would have a Community passport and we would also have a historic claim on the part of Spain assumed by the United Nations and, as I see it, territorially also by the United Kingdom? If it comes out, well, and, if not, so does it. That is the policy vis-à-vis the independenceists and vis-à-vis the United Kingdom. [[Applauds]] He comes here to talk about immigration, too. I went to Ceuta, Melilla and Algeciras this summer. The one that I fell for saying that there were no papers for everyone, that we had to make solidarity in origin, that we had to support the Civil Guard, the National Police, that we had to support the fence, the fence of Spain, because Spain has territory on the African continent, and of Europe, because Ceuta and Melilla are Spanish and are also European enclaves. And what you were saying was that that was a horror and that there was no effect called. The so-called effect are figures: 43 000 arrivals of immigrants to Spain in this year 2018. To understand what I was saying about Libya: the eastern Mediterranean route has fallen by exactly 85% and the western route, through Spain, has increased by 150%. I have to remind you that this tragedy of illegal immigration causes, for example, 2.2 million people to be sexually exploited because of the mafia or 7 billion euros in the exploitation of these poor people or, for example, that we are faced with the challenge that through Spain 42% of the entire immigration flow of the Mediterranean across Europe is now happening. Why don't you do what the People's Party was doing? Integration of immigration through legality, linking to a contract of employment; ultimately, offices of insertion, education, cooperation in origin; not what Zapatero did: betting on the dialects of which country. [[rumors]] No, cooperation in schools, cooperation in institutionalization, talking with the Maghreb, with the Sahel, with sub-Saharan Africa, so that there is an immigration that is regular and orderly, so that the so-called effect, which is already undeniable, does not continue to be used by the mafias to extort millions of people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u7	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u8	I'm done, Madam President. Thank you very much. In short, Mr Sánchez, you have come here to talk about Europe, you have not come here to talk about what is happening in Spain and you do not know exactly what you are claiming from your Community partners; we do not know very well what prestige you have. I want to finish, Madam President - I thank you - with the last thing, which is the European Union's foreign policy. Have you asked the community partners to support the Lima Group in defending democracy and freedoms in Venezuela, as has Germany, as has France, as has Peru, as has Colombia, as has Chile, as has Argentina? [[Applauds]] Sebastián Piñera strictly asked you to support the Lima Group and you said the same as your predecessor in office as socialist president: you refused to say political prisoner, you refused to condemn Maduro's dictatorship. That's right, now he's talking about Saudi Arabia. For me it is just as disappointing what happened to journalist Khashoggi as what happened to Fernando Albán when he was thrown out of the window of the Sebin; he was thrown out the window of a boy after torturing him. [[a Member of Parliament: Very well! All right!-Applause.]] Or do you ignore the reports of the OAS, which says that there are 12,000 arbitrary arrests in Venezuela, that there are 6000 murders in what goes under the dictatorial regime, that there are 300 tortures already documented and that there are 300 political prisoners in prison? Does that matter to you because it's Venezuela? Why is Zapatero an advisor? Because his investment and budget partners are asking him to stay out of Venezuela? Do you not want to lead Europe to continue to sanction the kleptocracy, to those Venezuelan hierifals who, after slaughtering and bringing misery to their people and extending it to Nicaragua, then come to Europe to buy houses and to have opaque accounts in the banks? You don't care? He talks a lot about Saudi Arabia, but you don't talk about Venezuela. Therefore, as I said the other day, human rights are above ideology. That's his line. For you have dignity and defence for human rights and this responsibility that we show in the case of Saudi Arabia apply it to you, because it is infamous that the Government of Spain is alien to the suffering of an entire brother country such as that of Venezuela. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- A Member of Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u9	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea has the floor, first of all, Mr Turrion Churches. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, the truth is that I see you very concerned about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia; even after everyone is talking about the murder and torture of a journalist you come here to talk to us about Venezuela. [[Applauds.-Protests]] I have heard you, in a very energetic intervention, quote an anecdote from Olof Palme. I hope the anecdote in this case is correct, because the other day you confused Maura with Niceto Alcalá-Zamora. I hope you didn't get confused this time. [[Rumors.-Some Members: Ohhhhh!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u11	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Wait a minute, Mr. Iglesias. I've stopped time. [[Pause]] Mr. Guijarro. Ladies and gentlemen, have a behavior, if you can, exemplify everyone, and when I say everyone is everyone. Mr. Rodriguez, everyone. Please silence and respect the speaker. Here you come to convince with the word, not with the gestures, not with the noise, not with those gestures that are certainly insulting to everyone. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u12	Thank you, Madam President, for putting order. Of course the behavior of the left benches leaves much to be desired, it is very clear. [[Laughter]] Mr. Married, I have the impression that, in view of your speech, the poor people of VOX will have to end up singing the Face in the sun to differentiate a little from you, because you are making it very difficult for them. [[Rumors]] With regard to this attendance, which is a matter of international policy, thank you, Mr President, for coming to the meeting, thank you for talking to us about the European Council meetings on the various subjects, thank you for talking to us about Saudi Arabia. You have made a digression about Brexit to speak basically of Catalonia. You have said something that has caught my attention: let us park our differences. The most interesting thing about democracy and politics is that there is no reason to block differences. Differences can coexist and, if we all listen, we can continue to work together without parking the differences. I hope that we will be able to ensure that no one's opinion is excluded on certain issues, that no one has to make up for their differences, and that we will also be able to reach agreements. Today we are facing a debate of enormous importance, which is about the international role that Spain wants to play. Mr. Married said something very interesting yesterday. He said: The brightest time in Spanish foreign policy was the time of José María Aznar. It is an extremely respectable opinion, although we will be allowed to disagree. Perhaps the image of our country in the picture of the Azores or the loss of influence of our country in Latin America are not in the brightest time of our foreign policy, but it is a respectable opinion. Now, Mr Sánchez, I believe that we must move away from the style of the People's Party's foreign policy and that means taking a few steps with a little more courage if we are to be an international reference in human rights and in compliance with international law and also if we are to be a European reference that poses a barrier to the advancement of fascism and the extreme right in Europe. For this reason, our country has basically two very serious problems which, moreover, derive from its intervention here. The first problem is our relationship as a country with Saudi Arabia. Mr President, the image that the Spanish monarchy has given in its relationship with a criminal regime such as Saudi Arabia is impractical. And, to top it off, if any actors were missing in this theater, Commissioner Villarejo appears negotiating contracts with another police officer with Saudi Arabia. I don't think our country can afford this image. Secondly, with regard to Europe, I believe that as a country we are playing a too low role, that our profile is too low in the fundamental debates that are taking place in the European Councils. I know that a president has many difficulties and pressures, that geopolitics is complex - as has been said lately - and that they have their rules, but you will agree with me, gentlemen of the government, that things can be done at least a little bit better. With regard to Saudi Arabia, there are some questions that need to be answered clearly and without euphemisms. First, should we stop selling weapons to Saudi Arabia? There's only one answer, one monosyllable, yes. We've got to stop selling guns now. [[Applauds]] For different reasons. The first reasons are ethical. The breaking up, torture and disappearance of a journalist adds to what he already knew all over the world: systematic human rights violations against the people of Saudi Arabia themselves and against the Yemeni population. This everyone knew. It might be that the Foreign Minister, who has a lot of international experience, would say to me: Lord Churches, ethics does not work in international relations. I accept that ethics often does not operate in international relations, but Spanish law and international law oblige our country to stop selling arms to Saudi Arabia. [[Applauds]] Secondly, should the contracts signed by the Spanish Government be revoked, even if they were signed by the previous Government? The answer is very clear: yes. Just because the law requires them to be revoked. What does the government have to do? Find an alternative buyer. And what do you have to do if you don't have an alternative buyer? To demonstrate that the fourth euro area economy can perfectly secure the workload in shipyards. We're not a small country. [[Applauds]] There is a third question that arises from an extremely cynical approach. There are those who are saying without tearing their clothes that respecting human rights has costs and that you have to pay an invoice to respect human rights; and some say that this invoice, if someone has to pay it, is paid by the Gaditans. I say this very clearly: if we have to pay an invoice, we all pay it, and that invoice translates into betting on the industrial sector of shipyards. [[Applauds]] Shipyards are profitable and Spain deserves a serious industrial policy. Even the mayor of Cádiz has submitted one and a thousand alternative plans so that there is a workload in the shipyards without Spain having to fail to comply with international law and Spanish law. Please recognize me, gentlemen of the Government, that you have not lived up to the spirit of the motion of censure on this issue. Mr Sánchez, you have repeated many times today, many times the material expression of defense. We are at a time when citizenship does not accept euphemisms, let's call things by name; we have sold four hundred bombs, four hundred bombs! You have said from the government that they are precision bombs that do not kill civilians and we all know in this House, each and every one of us in this House knows that precision bombs kill civilians. Let us tell the truth, let us not use euphemisms peculiar to the hypocrisy of the People's Party and its allies, let us say clearly what we are talking about. Look, Mr President, I know that basically you agree with me, that you know that we should not sell arms to Saudi Arabia and that you know that those contracts could be revoked. I know that you are receiving enormous pressure and I ask you not to do as the People's Party, to rectify and to give a lesson that the Spanish citizens are going to thank you for, and that is that this country is willing to defend human rights and at the same time bet on a serious industrial policy. [[Applauds]] You have told us about different issues that have been discussed at the European Council and other meetings in Europe. On the subject of Brexit, I have to ask you to devote all the necessary hours, if it is necessary to devote the same hours that the British devote to thinking about Brexit, to thinking about how to protect the Spanish citizens living in the United Kingdom and the Spanish citizens working in Gibraltar. With regard to migration, I have to ask that our country become a reference to respect for human rights. We must put an end to these prisons, which are called CIE and bet on reception centres, we must bet on the legal channels of immigration, we must defend that asylum can be applied for in the embassies and consulates of our country, we must help, Mr President, the municipalities, which are bearing the burden of fulfilling an obligation that our country has in terms of humanitarian aid. There is one issue that has not been very present in your speech, which is the problem of climate change. As you know, you have taken up only two paragraphs at the meeting of the European Council. We cannot agree, Mr Sánchez, that climate change is a secondary or third-order issue in discussions in Europe. With regard to the Singapore Treaty, his Foreign Minister said that it was not going to be signed. It is bad news that Europe signs a treaty with a country that is outside the ILO conventions, where workers' rights are not respected and where civil rights are often not respected. Finally, there is a concept that is becoming very fashionable: the concept of security. Some say that security has to do with concertinas, that security has to do with rubber bullets, that security has to do with walls, and those who say that are the ones who have turned Europe into a breeding ground for fascism. Austerity policies, Mr Sánchez, gave birth to Salvini and Salvini is Merkel's son, Mr Sánchez. We have to push from the Iberian Peninsula a different concept of security. The security is that all dependent families receive assistance, the security is that working families know that their children will be able to go to school and they will be able to go to university, security is that health works, security is that public services work. Mr Sánchez, let us push from southern Europe a project of coexistence for all who bet on real security. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u13	For the same group, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we regret to have to talk about the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia, and we regret this because our trial is making a very serious mistake, Mr President, and not only because it is unable to put an end to an aberration such as the sale of arms to a country that flagrantly tramples on human rights, but also because it is unable to lead a clearly progressive agenda in Europe. When you entered the government, we were delighted to receive the decision to welcome the Aquarius, whom you later rejected. The same illusion with which we received the withdrawal of the Melilla concertinas, which months later have become hot returns justified by his Government without any indecentness, and the same illusion with which we received the decision to stop selling bombs, which was changed just minutes later and which today brings us here to discuss whether or not to sell frigates to Saudi Arabia, a country that does not respect human rights either within its borders or outside, as in Yemen or, as it seems sufficiently demonstrated by the horrific murder of a journalist in its consulate, in Turkey. In this regard, Law 53/2007 and numerous international agreements are clear: the Spanish State cannot sell arms to countries that violate human rights and you, like the previous Government, have done so and intend to prolong it. Today he has a decision to make and when he takes it and looks at it in the mirror of his counterparts he will be deciding who he wants to look like, whether Trump, an ally of Saudi Arabia, or Trudeau, who has already declared the arms embargo, or even Merkel, nothing suspicious of being in Europe an example of defending democracy and human rights, as has been demonstrated by issues such as economic sovereignty and refugees. Today Merkel is giving more examples than you. Refusing today to suspend the sale of weapons means taking further steps back, means relegating the agenda of progress that we could have and means aligning ourselves with a bloody dictatorship like that of Saudi Arabia. If you do not make that decision so that your goal is to have an agenda consistent with human rights, do so at least for follow-up, but do not continue to make this country a European anomaly, as it was during Rajoy's term of office. It is enough to support the interests of the King's emeritus friends, whose alleged abilities - I say, by the way - could well be used for those same frigates to be sold in a country that respects human rights. [[Applauds]] Let me now turn to the budget agreement with regard to the Council of Europe in which it has recently participated. These budgets can mean that it is the south of Europe, prioritizing the welfare of the majority with its social policies, which can re-establish its course because, like you here today with the famous weapons, Europe is also in a disjunctive: either it comes out of austerity with a fascist path or it comes out of austerity with a way of defending social rights and guaranteeing and respecting human rights. So we are very clear: this agreement must be defended in Europe and it must be defended and worked on here too, as the Confederal Group is humbly doing. We must be brave and dialogue with the rest of the forces, as we are doing with the PDECAT and with Esquerra, and we must also be brave by defending the sovereignty of these accounts in Europe in the face of Mr Casado's boycott model that in trying to block them he is not boycotting, as he believes, a government or a parliamentary group; Mr Casado and his twin Rivera are boycotting migrant people, feminists, pensioners, boycotting those who cannot pay the rent, those who have a precarious salary or those who cannot afford to take medication because they cannot cope with the pharmaceutical coffer, because for all of them it is these budgets against those who fight without rest Rivera and Casado and we are not going to allow them. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u15	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u16	Good morning. Mr President, I shall set the United Left's position on the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia. We share the street against the Iraq war with millions of people and today you have told us about State responsibility. My question is: Is it so difficult from the government to shout 'no to war'? What is the price of human rights and peace? We want to raise three fundamental questions: firstly, support for workers. We understand the naval sector as a source of employment and economic development, we understand that changes and investments in R & D+i are necessary, diversify the portfolio of customers and production, demand the maintenance of the workload in civil or military construction for countries that comply strongly with human rights and implement policies to support companies and shipowners to ensure stability in the construction of ships, minimizing dependence on construction for war purposes and stability and increased employment. Secondly, we reject the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia. No parliamentary group can deny Saudi Arabia's systematic violation of human rights, despite its friendship with the Bourbons. Indeed, according to recent reports, since Saudi Arabia's intervention in the Yemeni war, more than 15,000 people have been killed, thousands of women, thousands of children killed, 888 schools destroyed by the bombings, 327 hospitals destroyed by the bombings. Therefore, Mr President, do not close your eyes; Mr Casado, take note, you cannot come to a debate on Saudi Arabia to talk five minutes about Venezuela and none about Saudi Arabia. Thirdly, we demand that the responsibility of governments in decision-making on the sector should not be placed on the shoulders and back of workers. No mayor of the Bay of Cadiz has the competence of the central government, and the responsibility of the government cannot be placed on the back of the industrial worker, mechanic or painter. They therefore guarantee workload and human rights. The shipbuilding sector has been the victim of the industrial dismantling policies carried out by the previous governments of our country both of the PSOE and of the PP with two objectives: firstly, the attack on a highly organized and numerous working class and, secondly, the submission to the neoliberal policies of a European Union which is committed to the dismantling of industry in the peripheral countries, and which understands that we must dismantle our industrial sectors and give ourselves to the provision of services and to job insecurity. Therefore, there is no more blackmail between employment and human rights. We believe that these two elements can be guaranteed, and in the face of blackmail we decided to fight: fight for the dignity of the workers, fight for solidarity among the peoples of the world and fight for the economic and social development of our country. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u17	Thank you very much. Also by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, you have the floor Mr. Gómez-Reino Varela. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u18	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President, Mr. Sanchez. Unfortunately, today I have to be very brief, almost telegraphic, I would say. Migration, security, euro and Brexit, a Europe that is completely sluggish. The European Union is besieged, it is true, but the situation has nothing to do with the external threat, with the external enemy. It has more to do with those who are eroding from within the foundations of any common project. Europe is not threatened by immigration, we understand what is happening. What is at stake is not the management of immigration, it is the management of xenophobia as an irresponsible electoral claim. Let's get out of the glass towers, get out of the parliaments. [[Applauds]] The European Union has already ended as we knew it and there are two ways out: there is an exit against Europe and towards authoritarianism, either because the extreme right is defeated in the ballot box or because their proposals are defeated through other parties; there we always see the People's Party and Citizens comfortable. There is another way out for Europe, towards democracy, to regain the sovereignty of peoples and to act always in favour of the social majority. The Europeans want to see that their institutions are on their side, that they protect them. Where are the human rights? Where is the European social model and where is the project to place Europe in the world? If they reduce Europe to bureaucracy, lobbies, meetings of presidents and free business, the European project will be definitely dead and it will be impossible for it to regain legitimacy. This euro and its monetary union leave the states absolutely unharmed and elevate the foundations of neoliberalism to constitutional matters. And, let us be frank, it was the European Union that faced Europe, it was the European Union that decreed the Austericide, which kidnapped sovereignty and which has banned us from expansive public policies, thus ending and dismantling the welfare state. And, on the subject of Brexit, take seriously, Mr President, Mr Sánchez, the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. We play a lot and our agriculture and our fishing are very much affected. They are Galicians most of the sailors of the Great Sun. That's where we remind him of what we've already demanded of him. Everyone understands that Galicia has to be one of Spain's fisheries voices. Everyone understands that Galicia has to be one of Spain's milk voices. Galicia has to participate as a voice and with capacity in the decisions of the European negotiations. I end, Mr President, with a maximum that must govern our international policy: human rights are not relativizable here either in Europe or in Saudi Arabia. We respect our citizens and we respect, above all, human rights and international law. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u19	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u20	Thank you, President. President of the Government, Members of Parliament, today we come to the next item on two important issues: one of them is the European Council, the Brexit Council, the Extraordinary Council, and two, Spain's position on the sale of arms to countries such as Saudi Arabia. I am not going to avoid these two debates and I am going to talk about these two issues because I think they are very important and therefore we will have other occasions to discuss, discuss, criticise and shout, but I think it is up to us today to talk about Europe, to talk about the future of Spain and to talk about human rights today. Firstly, with regard to the European Council, of course, Mr Sánchez, we will agree on the foundations of the European Union, but you have told us about a common position in this arms issue, but a common place, not a common position, which is not exactly the same. With regard to arms, which is the first issue I wanted to deal with, I will make it so clear to you that our position is clear in this House: we must respect existing contracts and respect and defend human rights. Of course I do! The two things are compatible! That debate must not be avoided. The Charter of Human Rights is not a whim, it is in article 10 of our Constitution. Our Constitution is one of the most modern in the world because it assumes that the Charter of Human Rights is national law and assumes that rights are interpreted in accordance with that Charter. How, then, are we going to come here, even if we are in the opposition, and not assume that Charter of Human Rights? How are we going to avoid a human rights debate? I think it is necessary, what happens is that human rights, Mr Sánchez, do not go through neighborhoods, precisely because they are human, because they are global and because they are global, and that is what I want to talk about today. I tell you clearly that we are not going to participate in your populist partners or in what the Minister of Defence said. Let me say, Mr Sánchez, that you killed Mrs Robles politically, you killed her politically. Every time the Minister of Defense talks, she won't have any credibility, because the Minister of Defence said that some contracts had to be repealed and you came out a few days later to say that the contracts had to be fulfilled. What are we left with? What did Minister Robles say or what did you say? And if Minister Robles said the opposite of what the government thinks, what is she doing sitting in that chair? I'm asking you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] The first thing I want to highlight is that this mess you have done to yourself, you have set up a mess yourself, an uncontrolled government, without coordination. I do not know whether Mrs Calvo has the coordination tasks, but at the moment she is not very successful, because you are going like headless chicken: Mrs Robles says one thing and you say another. But, of course, the problem is not what Mrs Robles or Mr Sánchez says, it is that he speaks Spain. What worries me about this is that my country is speaking and that my country has to have international credibility and that half-contract contracts cannot be abrogated if there are no causes for this. Therefore, I say clearly: Yes, Citizens support a state position to comply with existing contracts. But I tell you one thing, Mr Sánchez, we must also rethink what we do in the future. Because today's debate was that: What do we do in the future with the sale of weapons? Do we look elsewhere if human rights are violated? We don't control and monitor what happens to that weapon? Do we have a common position in Europe? Yes or no? France has taken a stand; Germany is taking a stand paralysing those sales. What are we gonna do? You talk about common positions, but you haven't told us whether or not you're going to stall those sales, you haven't told us what you're going to do in the future. I agree that we must have a common position from Spain and Europe, but you have not told us anything. You've come here to talk and you haven't told us what you're planning on doing with future contracts. I tell you, there are some lynxes of the economy, which are your partners in Podemos, which have a great idea. Yesterday we said that the best solution was that those corvettes, those bombs or that weaponry, instead of selling it to Saudi Arabia, we have it ourselves, that we pay it in the budgets. That's how Podemos goes; this is his economy, that we charge to budgets the products to be sold to third parties. That's a brighter idea! How could we not have thought of that? [[Laughter and applause]] I ask you, Mr Sánchez, please, not to follow the populist thesis of your partners, that proposing barbarities like this does not lead us anywhere. If we are to have credibility, we must have a clear position and then a common position in Europe. I agree with what France and Germany - the United Kingdom is not, but ultimately an ally - are doing, which is questioning how weapons are sold in the future and whether Europe is able to have a human rights clause in the sale of those contracts. Yes, Mr. Sanchez, you didn't say any of that. I ask you clearly: What is the position of the Government, of Mrs Robles, yours or none? What is the position of the Government? Speaking of Europe, I would also like us to be clear about that position and not to listen to the mermaids of the great human rights defenders Erdogan and Putin, of course, because, as everyone knows, Erdogan and Putin are great human rights defenders provided that it is not in their country, of course, that it is in the countries of others. Look, you have to be very careful about this, because the siren chants of Erdogan, Putin or Podemos are certainly not the best position in Spain in the future. So - to make it clear - yes to existing contracts - we are a serious country - but yes to the future debate on the sale of weapons and how they are conditioned on the fulfilment of human rights. That is the position of Citizens and what we want to be the position of Spain. [[Applauds]] As you said, Mr Sánchez, human rights are not neighbourhoods, they are global, and I would like to ask you what the position is on the human rights of Spain and your Government on the journey you are going to take to Cuba. You are going to travel to Cuba in November - not the king, you - and since you are going to travel, I ask you in this rostrum: Are you going to defend human rights in Cuba? Yes or no? Are you going to meet with Cuban dissidents who cannot even do politics in a country that is not democratic? Yes or no? Mr Sánchez, are you going to meet with the dissidents and are going to defend in your speech a country that respects human rights and democracy? Yes or no? That's the question I ask you. And second, Mr Sánchez, are you going to defend human rights also in Latin America, in this case in Venezuela? [[Applauds]] Because, of course, I already know that Podemos doesn't like us talking about human rights or just talking when they want to, but human rights are talked about around the world. And in this case we can agree, we have to defend them, yes, but throughout the world. Look, Mr. Sánchez, I recently met in Bogotá with President Duque, who has been brave, who has led a criminal response, as it should be, to those who violate the rights of humanity. Anyone who commits crimes against humanity must be tried, tried at the International Criminal Tribunal. But not only has Colombia, which is an ally of Spain, also Mr. Trudeau of Canada, led the sanctions and the complaint before the International Criminal Tribunal; and Peru, and Paraguay, and Argentina, and Chile - Mr. Piñera said recently -. But I tell you one thing, Mr Sánchez, your silence about the violation of human rights in Venezuela is beginning to cause concern because in Europe France has passed us over and said that it also supports the complaint to the Criminal Court. Germany told Mr Piñera the other day that it supports the complaint to the Criminal Court. Mr. Sanchez, are we going to have to embarrass ourselves for a long time of your silence or are you going to change your position? Are you going to listen to Zapatero or the Spanish? [[Applauds]] So I ask you, Mr Sánchez, first of all, to comply with a resolution by this House calling for sanctions to be imposed on chavistas and chavista drug traffickers in Spain. There is a House which is this, a resolution adopted here in this House and you are the government and you have to comply with it, therefore put the sanctions on the Chavistas. And second, that Spain joins those eight countries, that we be the ninth country, please, that we don't have to be ashamed. Mr. Churches, you were talking about human rights. Do you know which country is the petitioner with the highest number of asylum applications in Spain? Do you know what it is? Which one is it? [[Consent of Mr. Turrion Churches]] Venezuela. Not even right now Afghanistan or Syria, Venezuela triples the asylum request of other countries. So, what are we talking about? Aren't you worried about Venezuela's asylum application? I do, like that of Afghanistan, like that of Syria, like that of Saudi Arabia, but it is that you do not care about human rights, you worry about which ideology commits crimes against humanity or not, and that cannot be. [[Applauds]] So, Mr. Sánchez, stop listening to Zapatero, who embarrasses us what Zapatero does by legitimizing Maduro's regime, who embarrasses us that he accuses the United States and Canada of being guilty of the exodus; of course, they leave because they want to, right?, because he's doing very well in Venezuela, right? There are 1 100,000 people leaving in an exodus as has never been seen in Latin America. In Colombia, more than a million people are being received. But, Mr Sánchez, your partners, Churches and Mr Zapatero, advise you not to do anything and ask for dialogue from those who throw lords from a tenth floor after torturing them. Don't you worry? I'm worried about the Khashoggi case, of course, but I'm also worried about a Venezuelan opponent flying out the window from a tenth floor of a public building after being tortured. Doesn't that concern you, human rights? As I'm telling you, are you going for neighborhoods, for ideologies, or are we all worried? Well, more courage, Mr Sánchez, less listening to Zapatero and more listening to the democratic opposition in Venezuela. The second part of this speech is the European Council. Look, Mr Sánchez, you said that Brexit is a drama, I certainly agree, it is a drama, but some have been part of the drama and with bottle errors, they have made the surely biggest mistake that has been made in the United Kingdom in the last century, which is to leave the European Union. You know why? Because there was a president, in this case a prime minister, Cameron, who wanted to copy the speech of the populists, who wanted to take the speech from those who wanted to separate the United Kingdom from Europe, and you can make the same mistake, Mr Sánchez, because I tell you one thing, you know how we govern in Europe, in Europe we govern in an alliance between Europeans, socialists, liberals and conservatives. We do not govern with the populists, we do not govern with Le Pen, with Syriza or with Podemos, we govern the socialists, the liberals and the conservatives and I wonder, Mr Sánchez, whether the future of Europe goes through an alliance of socialists - or what is left of the socialists - liberals and conservatives, why do you in Spain work at the hands of those who want to liquidate Europe? Why are you at the hand of Salvini's blood brothers, Convergence? By the way, Mr. Churches, you said Salvini is Merkel's son. Look, I don't know what sonship Salvini has, but he's a blood brother of Convergence, they're partners, they've done acts together, they're defending the same thing, and you're going to talk and call Mr Puigdemont, Salvini's partners, to make European budgets depend on them. [[Applauds]] That's the problem. Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, do you know what the slogan of the North League of Salvini was? 'Rome thief'. Does 'Rome Thief' sound to you? 'Spain steals from us', does that ring a bell? Blood brothers. You are ruling with Salvini's brothers instead of ruling with the liberals, with the conservatives, with the Social Democrats, who are defending a common European project. So, Mr Sánchez, Europe does not need inventions and that Spain is in the hands of populists and nationalists. Europe needs to combat populism and nationalism. Juncker said, the one who slapped him the other day in the back so that he would not speak, in Salamanca, on the anniversary of our university, that the poison of Europe is nationalism. [[rumors]] I subscribe to Juncker's words, but you instead of listening to Juncker listens to Churches; and instead of listening to Tajani listens to Salvini's partners, and we believe that what Tajani, Juncker or Tusk say is much more in tune with what Spain should do. Mr Sánchez, you, to be in La Moncloa for another quarter of an hour, are able to ally yourself with the enemies of Europe, with whom you want to liquidate Europe. Mr Iglesias was in his electoral programme in the last Europeans, for example, to put an end to the Euro Pact. Do you really believe that ending the Euro Pact is the solution or should cooperation mechanisms be strengthened or should a common fiscal policy be pursued? Do you really believe that what Mr Iglesias says is what we have to do in Europe? I don't think so, I think you're going the wrong way. Mr Sánchez, I know you are not going to rectify this because you, being president at any price, are capable of anything, but I am speaking to the Socialist Party, not to sanchism, to the Socialist Party. There are many pro-European socialists, many socialists who defend this alliance in Europe, many socialists who have been separated by Mr Sánchez but who defend an alliance with liberals and conservatives. That is the future of Spain, Mr Sánchez, the future of Spain does not go through sanchismo, which is that current of opinion which is, basically, not having any idea but agreeing with those who give you the power. I believe that sanchismo is a negative parenthesis in the history of Spain and we must return to constitutionalism, but to the constitutionalism of the 21st century: a modern, Europeanist constitutionalism that adds up and does not divide the Spaniards - as we have seen in this debate - into the old left and the old right. Those are 20th century debates, they're over. In Europe, the debate is no longer who shouts, in Europe, the debate is who is protectionist and who is in favour of free trade; the debate in Europe is open society or closed society; the debate in Europe is reforms or not reforms. That is the European debate. You, Mr Sánchez, in Europe are not doing that role and you are not doing it because you have a role that is basically a lie. In less than 24 hours you sent a document to Brussels which was discredited by your own reply to me at the last control session. Send a document to Brussels with a 1.8 deficit path which is a lie and which is not approved in this House and the next day you say that we must comply with what this House says, which is 1.3. What credibility does Spain have and where do you leave Spain when you rectify yourself in 24 hours? And not only do you rectify yourself, you have rectified again. The finance minister used to say "chiqui, 12 billion is nothing." [[Rumors]] But yes, 'chiqui', it's a lot and the 10,000 you make of holes too. [[Applauds]] Because I already know that you, Minister, are used to diverting yourself from the deficit and nothing happens. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative signs]] Yes, Minister, you have. Yes, yes, Zapatero. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: Ah, Zapatero!]] Man they've done it! Zapatero said he left 6 deficit points and left 9 points with a pair!, 9 points to Spain. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, you know, you lied to Europe, yes. [[Applauds]] For a decade the Zapatero and Rajoy governments never met the agreed deficit path, never. There has been only one year, 2017, in which there was an agreement without a majority of the People's Party and an agreement in this House of budgets that are the first in a decade that fulfills the budgets that we citizens have agreed with the People's Party government. And that is the path: to fulfill, to fulfill and to fulfill. You know why? Because you cannot go to Europe with these credentials: go to Europe with a prison pact. Look, the prison pact is not the best credential for leading Europe. We have a great opportunity, Mr. Sanchez. The Franco-German axis needs support, help and a third country. Why? Because the UK is out and because Italy is in the hands of Convergence partners and therefore need strong Spain. But a strong Spain, Mr Sánchez, cannot be in the hands of those who want to leave the euro, such as Mr Iglesias; it cannot be in the hands of those who say that Europe must be destroyed, such as the Lords of Convergence or Esquerra. It has to be in the hands of those we believe in Europe. Mr Sánchez, I know you are not going to rectify this, and thanks to everyone who assures you to follow a few more days in the Moncloa, you are going to move forward, but the Socialist Party is a party that needs to change course in the future. When the Socialist Party returns to constitutionalism, we will wait for you. When the socialists return to Europeanism, we will wait for them. When you abandon the pacts with the nationalists and the populists, we will wait for you. Meanwhile, we are going to build a constitutionalist and Europeanist alternative in Spain, that is what we are going to do, Mrs Calvo. Yes, that's what we're going to do, because I know that you don't believe in Europe or Spain, you believe in pacting with the separatists and the populists. In any case, lying to the Spanish, Mr Sánchez, is not a good idea, lying to their European partners either. Not because you don't have credibility - you don't have it - for Spain. I care about my country, I care that when a president lies to Europe he lies to my country and when you lie in those papers he does it on behalf of Spain and I do not want my country to lie to Europe. I want to be a reliable partner and a leader, in this case as a country of Spain, of the European Union. Mr Sánchez, having the highest drop-out rate in Europe is not a good credential, and that is what you, bipartisanism, have done for forty years: poor education, education at the worst levels in Europe; having a labour market leading to the greatest unemployment in Europe, as the Socialist Party and the People's Party have carried, is not the best credential. You can pretend here a battle of the 20th century by shouting and insulting yourself, but the reality is that the 21st century expects other things, Mr Sánchez. So we're asking for education reforms. You broke the educational pact, Mr. Sanchez. It will pass into history as the person who dynamized a fundamental consensus for Spain, the pact for education. I ask you to stop dynamating bridges, to build bridges. You make a 20th-century employment policy with the People's Party and, by the way, supported by some trade unions and employers. We want a flexible, modern 21st century labour policy that gives workers opportunities and allows for more recruitment. You have cut, like the People's Party, into innovation, by the way, by cheating on innovation matches as did Mr Rajoy or Mr Married from the People's Party government. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, more education, better employment, more innovation and less pacts with populists and nationalists. We have an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to be that third country that leads Europe alongside France and Germany, and we have two options: to continue in the bipartisan battle that we have seen, shouting and insulting ourselves, or to draw a new line from the political centre, adding and giving hands to the best on the left and the best on the right, but to build a new stage in Spain. Bipartisanism is obsolete, the political battle takes us nowhere, and the opponents, Mr Sánchez, we are not the constitutionalists, they are the populists, they are the nationalists, their partners. So as sanchism tries to ally itself with the opponents of Europe, we believe that we must continue to lead the new European stage together in Europe, liberals, conservatives and socialists. Mr Sánchez, these budgets are not only a lie, they are bad for Spain. You lied the other day, you're going to raise the rate to the self-employed 420 euros. Do you think that after the effort made by the self-employed, who generate one in three jobs, you can put a slab in the back of the self-employed of 420 euros? Yes, Mr. Sanchez, you haven't even looked at the paper you sent. That's what the paper you sent says. Read it before sending it; that's what it says: a hole of 10 billion and in this case a slab on the backs of the autonomous. Mr. Sánchez, I don't think the self-employed have to pay for the duck or the prison pact; I don't think the diesel drivers are rich, as you say; I think they're workers, middle class people who need the car to go to work, to take your son to school, and those are going to put you in a jam. Do you consider the autonomous, the diesel conductors rich? I believe that they are Spanish, citizens who, in the end, pay taxes to have better services. Finally, Mr Sánchez, Europe needs free trade, not people like you who are blocking free trade. Europe needs agreements between liberals, conservatives and socialists, not agreements with populists and nationalists. Europe needs common positions, yes, in defence of human rights, but a clear and clear position. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u21	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u22	Therefore, after forty years, after this exhausted debate of the twentieth century, in Europe the debate is no longer whether you are socialist or conservative; the debate is whether you are more European or less, whether or not you are in favour of free trade, whether or not you are in favour of open society. The Europe of the future goes through an alliance between us, between those who defend the Constitution and those who defend Europe. If we come to throw the dishes through our heads, as we have seen between Mr. Married and Mr. Sánchez, we will not move forward. The Spaniards expect solutions and agreements and, therefore, Citizens, in the face of the mud battle, we prefer to think of Europe, Europeans and Spaniards, and try to reach agreements. As long as sanchism abandons constitutionalism, we will also lead many people who have voted for the Socialist Party and who today, as we are seeing in Andalusia, are disenchanted with the Socialist Party. There are many socialists who do believe in that policy. Mr Sánchez, really, instead of going through this fatigue of having to agree in a prison with populists and separatists, instead of having to raise taxes, crush the self-employed, has it happened to you that you might perhaps call elections? I'm asking you. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you said in this rostrum that you would call elections, you said in a press conference to announce a motion of censure that would call elections as soon as possible. I didn't know the sooner it was twenty months later, I thought it was the sooner it was. In any case, given the panorama, Mr Sánchez, every minute that passes in the hands of Iglesias, of Torra, of Puigdemont is a bad minute for Spain and good for those who want to liquidate it. So I ask you, Mr Sánchez, even if we do not agree on many things, that at least you should think not of your mandate, but of the mandate of those who come after and of Spain coming for the twenty-first century. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u23	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, you are well aware of article 8 of the Arms Trade Act. This article makes it explicit that any arms export will be refused, revoked or suspended when there are indications that weapons can be used to disrupt peace, to repress citizenship, to act against human dignity or to violate human rights, and the sale of weapons to Arabia violates the law - you know - which can even be considered a prevarication. But what is clear is that it means a real corruption of democratic values. This is unappealable. In addition, beyond Mrs Merkel's example, there is another example here, beside her, that of Mrs Robles. Do you know why Mrs. Robles thought what she thought? For dignity. I am convinced that Mrs Robles expressed her opinion in the way she expressed her opinion on dignity and, if not, ask her, even in privacy. And you disallowed it and authorized the sale of 400 000 kilos of Spanish Army laser guided bombs to Arabia and with a pathetic argument. He said it was arms with very little room for error. Since when does Spanish law provide for any exceptions saying that it is possible to sell weapons to genocide as long as they are intelligent bombs? Is this what the law says? It is also worth remembering that the deaths of dozens of children when a bus was bombed in July were caused by a bomb just like those sold by the Spanish State to Arabia. In addition, the independent organization Yemen Data Project has concluded that one third of the military objectives in Yemen are of a civilian nature: health centres, farms, markets, food warehouses and hydraulic and hydroelectric infrastructure. The United Nations has gone further and denounced bombings in residential areas, mosques, funerals, weddings, refugee camps and prisons. And this has a name, Mr. Sanchez, war crimes. Systematic and strategically programmed war crimes. And if you don't, tell me what your answer is to bomb Al Hudayda Harbour. Do you know why this port was bombed? To prevent the arrival of humanitarian aid, to prevent the arrival of humanitarian aid!, that is, to be able to win a war by means of a criminal strategy prohibited by international law. Moreover, let us be clear and let everyone know, the five corvettes committed by Spain must be used to end the naval blockade by which humanitarian aid is prevented. Consequence of this genocidal strategy? United Nations data: three quarters of Yemen's 29 million inhabitants need assistance and, in addition, the United Nations has already reported that it is stalking a famine that will suffer five million children. And we here, in Congress, celebrating Girl's Day! Here, celebrating Girl's Day! [[Applauds]] Five million children are going to starve in the coming months and years in Yemen. And I ask him: Where is the cry of 'No to war', the cry of millions of people and of the whole parliamentary arch, except for them? Where is the cry of 'No to war', which millions of people were singing at the criminal and illegitimate position of the Bush, Blair and Aznar coalition? Where is he? Is the criminal attack on Yemen, which also has its support, not just illegitimate and criminal? In the end, does it not all correspond to the same logic of economic and commercial interests? An immoral logic, a reactionary logic. Do you know what logic is? The perverse logic defended by the Socialist Party now too? If the weapons are not sold by us, they will be sold by others; then the dumbest makes watches. This is logic and this is superlative cynicism. The bet for the arms trade is a structural bet, it is not a short-term bet; it is an ideological, economic bet, to the dictate of the arms industry, and the test is the rotating doors. Or don't you remember Mr. Morenes? Or don't you remember Pedro Argüelles? First, in the Ministry of Defense, then in Installa - shareholders, managers of arms companies - and then again, again to command the defense policies of the Spanish State. The result of all this: for years - let the world know - the war children in Africa have been killing themselves with Spanish weapons, just as the genocides are now acting in Yemen with Spanish weapons. Great economic benefits for a few drawn from death and destruction. What was the People's Party's logic towards Iraq? He had promised Spanish entrepreneurs that they would take about 6 billion out of the business of rebuilding Iraq and in this case the justification is a business of 2 billion. Two to six go four, but it's the same equation, it's the same perversity. Don't give us the excuse that the United Nations has not decreed the embargo because it is true that the United Nations and the European Parliament, with the socialist vote in favour, have called on democracies not to sell any more weapons to Arabia. What is the distance between the embargo and the petition? The distance between the embargo and the petition is the capacity of the genocidal State to exercise more or less blackmail, but it is the same. This is the reality and for a Democrat this should be the reality. Besides, Mr. Sánchez - it's very hard what I'm going to tell you - you're responsible; yes, you're responsible for the end use of the bombs. That's why it didn't look so good for you when on a show, I think it was in The Goal of the Sixth, with a panic face - I saw a panic face because you're a good person and a Democrat - he said: Ah, I... Of course, I know... The guns when they're out... Panic face. And you know why? Because, moreover, this is illegal, because you know that international law makes the exporting State responsible for the end use of the bombs and that's why you were... I suppose for you it must have been very hard; yes, of course, very hard, because to say that your responsibility ends when the weapons have already come out of Spanish territory, in addition to being perverse, is illegal. [[Applauds]] Then I can ask you: Is the only dilemma to sell weapons to genocidal people or not to sell them to them? This is a dilemma, a dilemma of an ethical character, but there is also a dilemma that also sounds a lot to me: to skip the law or not to skip the law; and you are jumping the law, it is perverting it, which seems very cynical to me. Aren't you the ones who fill their mouths with the need to uphold the law? They always tell us, the Republicans. Aren't you the ones who claim to punish those who skip it? Then I wonder: Who in this case watches over the observance of the law? Who punishes you for breaking the law? Another shame, beyond the interests of the arms industry. In the Spanish case there is a decisive factor for Spain to support the genocidal Arabia. Do you know what that factor is? What's the last name? You know that, don't you? The last name is Bourbon. [[Applauds.-Shows a photograph featuring King Philip VI and Saudi Crown Prince Mohamed bin Salman]] Look what faces, faces of joy. The two very happy, the head of state next to the satrap who has sent yes, has ordered a journalist to be murdered and torn apart in the 21st century. Look how happy you two are. Is this new? No, no, The fraternal relations of friendship of the Spanish monarchy with the Saudi genocidal come from afar. If not, ask the father of the current head of state. In fact, the Bourbons have been trade ambassadors for the arms industry, friends of a regime violating human rights to which they have financed since the times of the Transition. A State that breaks down journalists, decapitates opponents, stoned women, mutilates thieves and whips and imprisons homosexuals and, of course, promotes terrorism. That's right, then Felipe VI goes to Barcelona when the anniversary of terrorist acts is commemorated at Rambla or Cambrils; then yes, then he goes there and makes an act of seriousness, of solidarity, but he doesn't care to be friends with the genocidals. [[again show the same photograph]] [[Applauds]] In short, we denounce what has been denouncing the Centre Delàs d'Estudis per la Pau and the Coalition of Arms under Control. Do you know who group the arms-under-control coalition? FundiPau, Oxfam Intermon, Amnesty International and Greenpeace. Very dangerous! We here also want to make it clear that we not only denounce the violation of the law, but also because perhaps Spanish society does not know it we denounce the opacity of arms export decisions. You must know those who can hear us that Members of Parliament do not have access to decisions taken by an interministerial board with a heavy weight of the arms and military lobby and whose deliberations - attention, in the twenty-first century, in the heart of Europe - are regarded as state secrets. Now we're going to know. Today in El País it is already written that the National Court investigates nothing less than twenty-three years of bribes in the sale of weapons to Arabia, do you know by whom? On the part of a public enterprise. [[Applauds]] So, as we have said on other occasions, the tern is about to overflow. It is not good for us to try to confront the workers with the struggle for human rights. We must also know that there are parliamentary groups, such as the Republican Left, which for many years we have tabled amendments to the General Budgets of the State, even if it ruled one or the other, for the conversion of the arms industry. They must know that, even in those times when we had greater complicity with the Socialist Party, we were never approved of any amendment aimed at the conversion of the arms industry. And now they want us to come across those who always defend workers and those who also defend or defend human rights? It seems absolutely perverse to me, which is why I say to you that we demand that you deny, revoke and suspend the sale of weapons to Arabia. We can't be accomplices to war crimes. You know why? Because putting in check the foundations of democracy what is going to cause is the collapse of the building, the democratic building is going to collapse. How are we going to stop at the extreme right, which today here is acting without disguise, if you, who are the progressives, act as you do? What's he not going to do right? If Mr. Married could, he'd shoot us. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah, of course I do. Mr. Rajoy might not, he'd put us in jail; in fact, he's already put us in. Mr. Married, if he could, would shoot us. [[Strong Protests]] As a matter of fact, he already said it. Yeah, he said it about Mr. Puigdemont. [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u25	Mr. Tardà, just a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u26	Speaking of Mr Puigdemont, he said so. All you have to do is hear it. [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u27	Mr. Tardá, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, respect each other. [[Several Members: He! He!-A honourable Member: Everyone! Strong Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u28	Mr. Married said it, I didn't say it. Plus, I criminalized him after five minutes. It was he who, speaking of Mr. Puigdemont, said: Perhaps it will end as Mr. Companies ended. He said it and, by the way, he didn't apologize. [[A Member of Parliament: Neither do you.- Rumors. Applauds]] I think it would have been a very good initiative to apologize and he didn't, which we will always remind him of until he apologizes. And if you don't apologize, it's because maybe it's considered a hypothetical solution. Ball point. [[Strong Protests]] That's it. Ball point. What I was saying is how we're going to stop at the far right if the progressives act like they're acting. Is it understood that the real cause of the problem is the maintenance of the status quo and the correlation of forces in regional conflicts and in the arms industry? If this does not stop, all end up being cataplasmic solutions to externalize the problems or even want to collaborate with third countries in order and effect that the problem can be cushioned, as now in the case of the perverse relationship between the Kingdom of Spain and Morocco. I remember two things. First, with regard to the migration crisis, they began their management by setting up detention and reception centres, then they paid for the hot returns, later they backed up an old bilateral agreement with Morocco to universalize the action and, in the end, they ended up taking over Rajoy's justifications. The Supreme Court in July condemned the Spanish State for failing to comply with its obligation to process asylum applications for nearly 20,000 refugees from Italy and Greece. I ask you: since the July Supreme Court ruling, how many of the agreed refugees have reached Spanish territory? Tell us. Finally, a little reflection, because I don't have time to expand. Canada. What's Canada doing? It resolves the conflict in Quebec democratically. This democratic quality of Canada is also reflected in this particular crisis. Canada does what it does is position itself and slows down and suspends arms exports to Arabia. Compare. In the Spanish State, not only is the sale of arms to Arabia not suspended, but democratic representatives are imprisoned. You're going through a very dangerous slope. We are in the 21st century and the Parliament of Catalonia is in exercise of democratic freedoms. Where do you think you live? The Parliament of Catalonia will say what it wants; in fact, what the Catalans represented in the Parliament of Catalonia want. And if the Parliament of Catalonia wants to reprimand the king, it will reprimand him. I'd just miss it! And now you, with the problems you have, are thinking how and how the voice of the Catalan Parliament can be silenced. But where are you going? Where are you going? Yeah, yeah, laugh, laugh, they'll come after you later, huh? What do you think, that's gonna end us? I have an obligation to tell you the following. First of all, we thank the comrades represented by Pablo Iglesias, by Lucía Martín, by Jaume Asens, Lieutenant Mayor of Barcelona, for the solidarity they showed, as we thank the solidarity, for example, of Arnaldo Otegi... [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, yes, or the lehendakari Urkullu, that is, those political leaders who have shown solidarity with our prisoners and with the exiles. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah. We are going to fly, we told you on the first day, the flag of dialogue; always, we will always fly the flag of dialogue and that is why we tell you that we have every interest in dialogue with you. Now, we will not sit at any table, at any table - which is clear and I repeat again because you are here in front -, Republican Left is not going to sit at any budget negotiating table. I mean, you don't have to call us to save us tensions if you don't do what we've publicly claimed. We're not going to trade shares for rights, we're not going to trade budgets for dignity. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to stick to the agenda because I would certainly be called to the point. So we are going to go to what it is, to the European summit and everything related to the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia. I would say that the feeling after the last European summit is that there has been nothing and, therefore, I, rather than saying no news, good news, would say no news, bad news in every way. I would say that if you read the text of the conclusions of this summit and of the previous June, you will see that there have been no new developments. Moreover, the hopes that had been laid down in June, even for your part, Mr President - and then I will go on the subject of migration - seem to me to have been quite disappointed and all in the water of drunkards. I'll start, like you, with the brexit. His exhibition has been as if we were at the beginning of it. It's true, in the end... Well, it's relatively true because surely the big problem right now is the Irish border. If the issue of the Irish border was not there and the British Conservative Government did not need the votes of the DUP, we would probably be in a better situation, but we must never lose hope because the backstop is there, it is an interim solution that would surely not please anyone and certainly cannot be eternalized. You say that the main work that we should do after the Brexit would be to strengthen Europe. Certainly, in this he will have us supporting him not only after the Brexit but also before, at all times, because we agree with that. What I cannot agree with is the comparison he wanted to make at the beginning between Brexit and the Catalan case. I cannot agree because, of course, it cannot be said that the Catalan nationalist movement and the process are anti-European, on the contrary, on the contrary. In any case, who would force them to stay out of Europe and who would put the big obstacle would be Spain, as was already announced by some Spanish leaders; that would be anti-Europeanism. But, of course, there is no anti-Europeanism on the part of the forces involved in the process. And I will tell you more, in another case, in the other European case that it can be a certain mirror, not in what happened at the end, a mirror against because there was agreement for a referendum, as was the Scottish case, to look at what has happened: the Scottish population is mostly European and, despite having a very important percentage, half of its population, in favour of independence, would want to stay in Europe, and surely if I had known about Brexit would have gained independence. Therefore, the comparisons in these cases are not, in my opinion, well-bred, Mr President. The United Kingdom has always had a special relationship with Europe, it has not been a member - let us say - in the exact conditions under which you were; it was all knockouts, you know it well, and it has pretended that this remains so. It is impossible, let us see what is happening; I would ask all parties - although, of course, here who has to decide above all is the Irish Republic and the United Kingdom - generosity in the settlement of the border in Ireland, because of course what I am convinced is that even among the people who have been able to support the DUP there are many people who would not be happy that things would return to the controls before the Good Friday agreements. I welcome the progress made in the agreement on Gibraltar; I welcome it. I'd like a little more concrete. The protocol has already been signed and we need to see whether progress can be made in these memorandums, because of course Spain needs Gibraltar and Gibraltar too, but the solution, as Mr Casado was proposing, for example, to the only thing that they were going to bring is greater ruin and greater poverty in the Campo de Gibraltar. With regard to migration, Mr President, what Mr Tusk said after the meeting was: our aim is to send a strong message on the fight against human trafficking networks, to protect our external borders and to build our cooperation with countries of origin and transit. I've heard it a thousand times, I've heard it a thousand times, it's always the same canteen. Let's go to specific topics. Was there anything concrete? Look, even the conclusions are repeated. When it is said that the illegal crossings have been reduced by 95% compared - of course - with the great Syrian crisis of 2015, that same statistic already gave it in June; it is that even the conclusions are repeated. You stress that the important thing is - and this is the great step that has been taken - cooperation with third countries in the investigation, detention and prosecution of border crossings and human traffickers. This is not new; so, generically, simply, it has already been said other times. And the only thing you insist on again, Mr President - forgive me for the expression so cruel or so crude - is on the wall. I agree to develop common minimum standards for the control of external borders, but we are talking about effective returns, cooperation with third countries to make them the border and that they are really the ones who control these flows. In June we talked about the 500 million to Turkey, now we are talking about the 140 - I think you said - to Morocco. That, in the end, is a temporary wall, but no solutions. Because, what about the platforms that you had also raised with Mr. Macron? Trying to get things settled in a sensible way. But it feels like there's nothing. That hasn't developed, how could it be done? Nor is there any talk of a regulated immigration that Europe must accept at once, because here we are trapping ourselves by talking about asylum. That no, that the vast majority, not in the time of Syria, but the vast majority of those who now cross the Mediterranean do so - and they say so when they cross - for economic reasons. A legal economic immigration must be considered, but we continue to close our eyes and talk about asylum. Mr President, talking about cooperation with Africa is necessary, of course, but that is long-term solutions. Moreover, I would talk to you about partnering with Africa, because it is very close to Europe. It is a phenomenon that will not be able to stop, and therefore it is not just about: I give you help, I try to help development, etc., but it involves much more, much more political interaction, and I am not just talking about building walls now, but about a real partnership with Africa. Mr President, in the meantime we have very specific problems in the Spanish State; the issue of the MENA, to which you have committed, remains unresolved. I know it is very complicated, that there are many ministries involved, many institutions, different areas of competition - autonomous, local, government - but something needs to be done. What do we do with those communities that are saturated, while there are others that have no children? What do we do with that traffic, which is already on the phone, with closed contacts and you already know exactly where and how you want to go? What do we do with the difference in criteria in prosecutors? I am no longer speaking at European level but within Spain, the difference in criteria with which the prosecution operates in one province or another. Mr President, we must seriously consider the distribution, the quotas of the MENA, to which we must effectively protect and be there; by the way, until the age of eighteen, when curiously compulsory education in Spain is until the age of sixteen. But it's fine with me, we have to do it, but let's do it neatly and in a split way. Because, Mr. President, so far in the waves of pateras, what happened? What has happened is that people have been given, once identified, forty-five days. Distract. Don't just dissipate, here we know how it worked. There have been two lines, it seems to me that they were the green and the blue, one going towards Madrid-Bilbao putting buses and another going towards Barcelona, and institutions involved behind putting those lines and they were told so. They're moving. And after those forty-five days, there's obviously no more control. What did all this lead to, too? I am no longer saying the implications for some municipalities, etc., which have suddenly had to try to help those people's conditions to be minimally decent in the face of an avalanche that we did not expect. What happened beyond all that? That we have met surprisingly with hot returns from France on the Franco-Spanish border. There was it in summer and now there are rumors that there has been it recently too. Mr President, that is putting Schengen at risk. It's endangering Schengen! I know it has been France and it has not been Spain, but it is either that we take this seriously at European level or, in the end, we have just downloaded the problem into each other and we have not just regulated and have a serious stance on immigration and the reception of people, and someone is telling you that we have to admit economic immigration and association with Africa, but this has to be organized in a better way than the current one. Also at European level because, if not, it is not worth it. But everything. And because the problem every day falls directly into Spain, it has to start with Spain itself. As far as external relations are concerned, Mr President - they also talked about relations with Africa, etc. - what I wonder is why they did not speak at the summit in Saudi Arabia, which seems that they did not or at least does not appear to me in any of the documents received or in the press news, because that would have been relevant: that a decision and a joint position had been discussed and attempted with regard to Saudi Arabia. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, spoke words that were not perceived.]] You tell me yes, there was something, maybe then you can explain it to me and tell me exactly what it was. Because what Saudi Arabia is, we all knew. Just like one would say that of White House: My God, in this place you play. But we already knew what Saudi Arabia was. Obviously, and I understand you perfectly in this, it is much easier to say something to Belgium or Yemen or - I don't care - to a third country than when it's in the middle of the United States, when it's in the middle of China, when it's in the middle of Russia or even when it's in the middle of Saudi Arabia. It is complicated and is said by someone who has asked the President of the previous Government, for example, for Mr Badawi and for human rights in Saudi Arabia, but I also understand the difficulties of his position and the responsibilities he faces. Nor can we forget that the war in Yemen - in which Saudi Arabia, it is true, has made real atrocities - is a proxy war, a very delicate conflict of which very little is known - I would say that even among the members of this Parliament - and of the geostrategic implications and role played by Iran and even of the strong position in some areas of Yemen that Al Qaeda has. I think that generalizing and seeking solutions is very easy, but it is true that what has happened has happened, and the case of Khashoggi is terrible, but of course, Mr President, we cannot say either: that the justice is in charge of seeking those responsible, etc. Hey, has anyone believed the versions modified over and over again by the Saudi regime? Can we really believe that the Saudi secret services at their own risk, as things work in that country, made that decision? Really? No, we all know what happened. And sometimes it's true - Mr. Legarda recalled earlier - what Kissinger said about a death being a tragedy and a million deaths being a mere statistic. But it is true that this has shaken the international community and I believe that there is a need for a firm response and, yes, a joint response, knowing what Saudi Arabia is, which is something like Jekyll and Mister Hyde, in the sense that we depend a lot on them and this, we must also say, knowing that they support a line, let's say, intransigent - let's not say, an absolutely intransigent or the most intransigent - of Islamism and that at the same time it provides information to Western intelligence services. We know you're doing this and at the same time you're removing things in the Sahel that don't make us any fun. We know that you are doing this and yet throughout the Middle East puzzle is also an important piece. This is not spoken for anyone, but it is so and it cannot be obviated. Nor can it be obviated - this has been said by some others - that the relationship with Saudi Arabia is an important economic factor. Because, hey, money runs, I think it does. But there are also other things to put on the balance, and that is why I understand the complicated situation as a government they have. I also believe that unilateral solutions by individual countries are not going to have the desired effect, but it is necessary, and I urge you, Mr President, to take a joint resolution. It is true that Chancellor Merkel has already said that they are not going to sell, but it is also true that all German contracts have already been executed, which is quite easy to say. But, Mr President, we would have to wait and push for a joint European position. Moreover, this would be a milestone for a future common European foreign policy. In the meantime, we must stop and try to find this solution. And if in the end you decide to cancel the contracts, we will support you. For my part, Mr President, I have nothing more to say to you. I do want to remind you of a little thing. You underlined the agreement and underlined at the summit that it is essential to reduce global emissions in all sectors, that more mitigation and adaptation measures should be taken, in particular to achieve the temperature target set in the Paris Agreement. Right. This commits you to the policy that you must adopt, and we will be attentive to that. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor in the first place for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now in its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. A few brief preliminary considerations. The first is that today Vox has reached the Congress of Deputies with all his sound. The second, appreciated and respected president, is that the concept 'to the question' has a before and after after that the leader of the opposition passed all his intervention by not making a reference to the script of what was the last European Council.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u33	Mr. Xuclà, one second. Mr Xuclà, the Presidency has the power to lead this plenary and apply the Rules of Procedure, but it does not have the power to go down there and defend itself in front of a speaker, so I remind you of the compliance with the Rules of Procedure and to continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u34	That will try to adjust to the agenda of the European Council. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, when, where and who of the Democratic Party or Convergence has met or had relations with the North League? Tell us time, place and person, time, place and person! Stop lying. Stop practicing what you call the mud battle, stop hating, that's bad for your health and you'll get the tests wrong if you're practicing the lie. By the way, you are a friend of those who wanted to incorporate the 5 Star Movement into the European liberal family of the 5 Star Movement populists, let's face it. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz pronounces words that are not perceived]] On behalf of Britain, to speak of Catalonia, Mr President, you have already been told very interesting things, there the solution was agreed, in Britain, there the referendum was agreed, there a solution was put to the vote. It was you who spoke about Britain to talk about possible solutions. We are not going to practice circular thinking, if we are going to submit to the object of this appearance. Saudi Arabia, this big black hole. On 17 October, when many elements were still missing to know about Jamal Khashoggi's murder in all its extremes, Lluís Bassets published in El País something that I think sums up very well what the President of the Government has proposed as 'we discuss all the extremes of this conflict'. I quote from a paragraph of this article: 'The cocktail was explosive and has just exploded. Two are its ingredients: a medieval, cruel and bloody prince and a country with a globalized economy, first oil exporter, partner of the major multinationals and top-level investor in the European and American exchanges, second customer of the global arms market and strategic and protected ally of the first superpower under the chaotic Trump presidency.' And it goes on: 'Crimes like that of the Istanbul consulate have been many in history, but few have had so much centrality and so much destabilizing capacity. Whoever conceived it, following old guidelines of state murder, did not count on globalization. Even broken, it's a scenario where it's hard to sneak out and hide'. Mr President of the Government, we are facing a black hole in which it is difficult to escape. Get away from this black hole that doesn't just have this episode of a journalist's murder, we're talking about the same country that held - let's be clear - that kidnapped Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri for weeks; we're talking about the main aggressor in the conflict, in the Yemeni war; we're talking about a country that breaks diplomatic relations with Canada in a non-reflective way, with a pattern of behavior in absolutely compulsive diplomatic relations that needs to be analyzed; that kills a reformist journalist, and it's not about distinguishing between radical opponents and reformist journalists, but we weren't talking about a radical opponent. Germany has suspended the sale of weapons on a preventive basis pending a common position of the European Union. Mr President, we are very much in favour of the approaches of your Minister of Defence, Mrs Margarita Robles, in the whole Saudi Arabia affair. Germany suspended the sale of arms pending a common position of the European Union. And when you say that we must take all the elements into account it is clear that there are elections on the corner, it is clear that there must be an economic policy for sectors that may be affected by the suspension of some contracts. Let's talk about what others haven't talked about going to the issue: migration and internal security. It is good to remind you that in the year 2015 the European Council agreed that by September 2017 the European Union would welcome 160 000 asylum seekers in an exceptional situation due to the war in Syria; that at the time of the implementation, in September 2017, only 28% of the people who had committed themselves to host the Member States had been welcomed; that we are awaiting a common European asylum system that must present the unenthusiastic Austrian Presidency led by Mr Casado's friend, the Prime Minister of Austria; that the common border policy is not yet stable and that it is not a question of whether they enter more Spain, Italy or Greece, but when someone treads European soil there must be a common immigration policy, which is one of the major failures of the European Union's common policy. And the second major aspect of this European Council has been internal security, cybersecurity, but also in the conclusions - three pages of conclusions of this European Council; brief conclusions - we are talking about chemical and biological threats. The Democratic Party has been alerting and insisting that Spain has a challenge: to rise to the level of chemical and biological threats. On Monday, one of the best specialists in the field, Anthony Fauci - an American scientist who is in Madrid on the occasion of the World AIDS Congress, gave an interview at the SER and said that Spain is not prepared for a bioterrorist attack. The Ministry of Health should update response plans for smallpox, which are due to be updated since 2003, anthrax and yellow fever. I understand that those who have come to give excited speeches do not care very much about updating a plan for 2003 but if the European Council talks about cybersecurity and biological threats it would also be good to alert and make proposals on what it is to govern and which is the task of this government at this morning's audience of some beginners. And speaking of cybersecurity, Mr President of the Government, the Government of the Generalitat took the initiative in cybersecurity and approved a law several months ago on the creation of the Catalan cybersecurity agency, but the Government of the People's Party, reactively, when it saw the title, without entering into the matter, filed an appeal of unconstitutionality against the law on the creation of the Catalan cybersecurity agency simply because the Spanish Government had not faced it. Last week, Minister Meritxell Batet engaged in a dialogue with Councillor Puignero on the possibility of withdrawing this remedy of unconstitutionality. I ask you to go into the background, to look at this case, because we are dealing with a case in which there is once again prejudice on the part of the former People's Party government. I'm going to make two references to get it over with. If we are talking about European construction and neighbourhood - and no one has mentioned it so far - in a European debate it is good to express support for Northern Macedonia, which is engaged in a profound process of constitutional reform, so that it has hope and perspective for European integration, for cooperation at European level and for cooperation in the Euro-Atlantic field. Last point, Mr President. Foreign policy, European Council, migration, internal security, cybersecurity, European construction... with the long-standing absence of its Foreign Minister and for the European Union, which must have some other responsibility, a minister sanctioned by the National Securities Market Commission for having privileged information in the sale of shares of a company of which he was a consultant. Mr President, curiously no one has asked you so far, but were you aware of this situation at the time of appointing Minister Borrell? Were you aware of this situation and do you maintain confidence in Minister Borrell i Fontelles after knowing this situation? It would be good if you would also respond to us in order to map out the socialist government, which on 1 June passed the page of an era that had to be overcome in order to give way to a new scenario of dialogue with which it is possible to dialogue, and with some of its ministers - specifically with one - it is especially difficult to simply open scenarios of dialogue. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u35	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u36	Thank you, President. Mr President of the Government, the Spanish State is the seventh world arms exporter and the increase in Spanish exports has not been accompanied by additional risk analysis and control measures, which increases the risk of the use of these weapons in crimes contrary to international law. In addition, the contracts are approved with a secrecy that is covered by the Official Secrets Act, which comes from the times of the Franco dictatorship. Mr Sánchez, I will tell you directly: continuing business with the Saudi regime as if nothing had happened would give despots around the world green light to kill opponents and to massacre civilians in an unpunished way, as long as they had enough money and influence to buy weapons in our country, and this is something we cannot afford. It is shameful that Spain does not have enough level of commitment to human rights to position itself before its trading partners and simply to respect and comply with the conditions set out in the International Arms Treaty, to which we are linked, which clearly states that before a transfer of arms occurs the supplier Government must assess the risks associated with the transaction according to strict criteria, for example that weapons are not used in war crimes or human rights violations, and if there is a substantial risk that this will occur, then the transfer should not be authorized. Here comes the discretion of the Government, which is based on an opportunity criterion. You must see what is being sold and who is being sold, and you must decide. This was what the Ministry of Defence detected at the beginning of September, and this decision was later disallowed by his Government for fear of losing a Navantia contract; a hunch, because it is also disallowed, occurred without the Spanish diplomatic action having ensured that Saudi Arabia - check out, the Saudi Arabia regime - could not afford to take away our colors and blackmail us saying that one contract goes with the other. This adds more blush to the situation. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that this has happened; international law has been violated for a long time, as was already the case with the People's Party Government and as many non-governmental organizations have already warned. Spain must put an end to all arms transfers to Saudi Arabia, including direct and indirect exports through other countries as long as there is a substantial risk that they will be used to commit serious human rights violations, whether in Yemen, Saudi Arabia itself or elsewhere. And, of course, he should refuse to serve as a necessary co-operator, as he did with the sale of those four hundred supposedly intelligent bombs because they only kill Yemenis or Saudis - or I don't remember what it was like - so that he could mock the blockade imposed on him by other countries, because those bombs that were sold to him were not of Spanish manufacture, the national industry was not being encouraged, we have simply been elements to mock a blockade. It is our ethical and democratic mandate in Parliament to demand that the Government stop the export of arms to countries in conflict if there is a risk that they will be used, as in this case, to massacre the population. We urge you to place Spain alongside countries that do comply with international law, such as Finland, Germany, Sweden, Norway, Belgium and the Netherlands, which must be imitated, also in the field of defence. And for those who enter the dichotomy of having to choose between employment or death by starvation, go ahead that in Compromís we are in solidarity with the workers of Navantia, we are concerned about the outbursts that they have had with the contradictions of this Government on the cancellations of contracts, but we must not forget that the last ones responsible for this perverse debate are the Governments - the previous ones and this one - who, in a coordinated way, should be working or having worked to find the best alternative to end the dependence on the production of weapons that directly attack the civilian population. We would therefore like to take this opportunity to urge your Government, Mr Sánchez, to analyse and develop real and sustainable alternatives to Navantia and to bring them to us soon because we cannot depend on the sale of weapons for the survival of the work of thousands of families and this is something we have resources to do. What we would not allow a democratic government, Mr Sánchez, is for it to become established in cynicism, cowardice and narrow-mindedness. The murder of journalist Khashoggi has been a heavy blow of attention, but this situation comes from before. And, also taking advantage of the fact that the summit has been given a green light at the European Council with the League of Arab States, Mr Sánchez, I ask you to take a step forward, to advocate for a European consensus to put greater control over the sale, not only to Saudi Arabia, but also to Egypt - which can make a potential use of weapons in the repression of protests - or also to Israel - which can use them against the Palestinian population. We demand a common European front, a common European position. Following the wake of Mrs Mogherini, we need leadership to put an end to the conflicts, not what Mr Casado has done, who has gone behind you to Europe to mourn over the draft budgets, and then this very serious institutional disloyalty hides us from talking about Venezuela, as always. No, I am talking about a serious leadership, a leadership that understands that we have to go out and try to resolve the conflicts on our periphery, and we also have to face the threat of the populist and xenophobic wave, because it is time that we put ourselves in the face of these dangers. For once we can lead the democratic initiative and from Compromís we ask you to take it, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u38	Egun on. The president had different topics to discuss. I'm only going to refer to two. First of all and very briefly to the brexit. I'd point out if we could learn any lessons. I, who can share the harmful effects that the exit of the Brexit may have, draw a lesson: that they have decided in the most democratic way possible, through a binding referendum and among all and all, so that if they are wrong or right they do so among all and without anyone deciding for them or for them. And by focusing on the subject of Saudi Arabia, I will point out some issues. You have followed the script we already knew, that of dismay, manifest dismay. Before that little can be said. How can we not share the dismay when we see how savagely someone has been tortured in a Saudi consulate in Turkey? As we would certainly share it if it is in the Palace of the Summit of Donostia, it is called Jamal Khashoggi or they are called Lasa, Zabala, Kalparsoro or Mikel Zabalza, because it is a barbarity what has happened. But to remain in dismay - which is an ethical plan - is not proactive, does not force to do anything and probably because it does not force to do anything, they are not forced to question the model of fluid relationship that has been had by Spain with Saudi Arabia. And surely that is because the Spanish monarch, because the Emeritus Bourbon would have very big interests with Saudi Arabia. It is very likely that the solid relations that Spain has with Saudi Arabia are also solid commissions that the Emeritus monarch has been able to have for his own pocket. And there's also a big deal with the construction companies in Saudi Arabia, which probably make it weigh more money than ethics, weigh more money and economics than consternation and the adoption of measures such as, for example, stop selling weapons to Saudi Arabia as a first step to stop selling them to anyone. And that being the case, and since it seems that these solid relations do not want to be altered, we see how the Spanish state sells weapons, sells bombs to sadists. Now we know that some of those who handle them are sadistic and, of course, selling weapons to sadistics only wonder what can go wrong. Well, that's what's going on. It is also said that this is maintained because if jobs were not lost in the Bay of Cadiz, in Navantia. I think we have to be more honest, what is at stake are the fines for overcosts and delays in the execution of high speed between Medina and Mecca for the great construction companies of this country, which have much more power - with all due respect I say - than the Gadite workers. You said that you were going to make a proposal that would put us at the head and I thought for a moment that you were going to talk about the conversion of the military industry into civil industry as a great contribution by the Spanish State to a necessary debate, but no, it has remained in good practice. I'm done with a consideration. For a long time there has been a lot of talk in the Spanish state about human rights, democracy has been talked about; moreover, there have been those who used to be a democrat card dealer to deny it to some and some of us, especially in Euskal Herria. Yet today we see that money weighs more than ethics, and we see that what a Roman writer said many centuries ago prevails far more than that status as a Democrat. He said, "If you see peace, for bellum." [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning; members of the Executive present here, good morning. Mr. President, thank you for your appearance. This is the debate on paradoxes. Let Euskal Herria Bildu come out to this rostrum and speak of ethics, speak of human rights and speak against weapons is a paradox, that is a tremendous paradox of this time we live. Today and yesterday, no? Please! [[Applauds]] Speaking of paradoxes, and with all due respect, Mr President, you also have a certain paradox that you reflect on the Brexit, which we share with you for what it means to break and reduce territories and nations, but you are sitting there, in that chair, in that chair precisely thanks to the support of the Basque Nationalist Party, which wants a Euskadiexit, like Eukal Herria Bildu, and the same as ERC and PDeCAT, which want a Catalunyaexit. That's the paradox, Mr. President. The Navarro People's Union does not question the legitimacy of its Presidency, nor does it question the legitimacy of all the political forces represented here; what I would like to remind you of, with all due respect - I repeat - is that these political forces have a model of state, of nation that you did not give much, but that is virtually the opposite of what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has defended in history, as well as many mayors, many parliamentarians and many men and women voting for the Socialist Party. Therefore, you who appeal so much to dialogue - and I share this - I encourage you also to look at these benches, in which we are constitutionalist political forces, for dialogue so that from the difference we can reach the common good, the good of Spanish society. I want to make the following reflection, to you, not to your party, because you are sitting in La Moncloa. Mr Sánchez, how close must the abyss, the cataracts be so that you begin to row in the opposite direction and seek agreements, as has been done in the Foral Community of Navarre for twenty-three years, stable agreements, with differences, with compromise, with problems, but since the dialogue for the good of the Foral Community of Navarre? We will reiterate those same agreements at the national level. I will also be consistent with what I said to him in the motion of censure four months ago: Mr President, call for early general elections. But I also want to say to you, Mr President: before you dissolve these Courts, I encourage you to sign the order so that all ministries will comply with the laws, especially that of the general budget of the State, and to reach the last cent committed by law, in law, in the General Budgets of the State for the Foral Community of Navarre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, in less than five months you have given the Asturians an accelerated course in their ability to lie. It promised in this forum to implement the 2018 budgets, which included the European width of the AVE and investments to implement clean emissions technology. Today the promise has been translated into a Asturias without high speed and in the mines, thermal plants and Alcoa closed, sowing uncertainty and the worst omens for the electro-intensive industry, which has blocked by its government the essential compensatory aid for indirect emission costs. At his previous appearance on 27 June, I highlighted some major concerns arising from his arrival at the head of a cosmetic and unprogrammed government. I then warned of the condemnation which I expected of regions like Asturias with its Copernican turn in energy policy, communicated vertiginously to the Council of Europe, even without being constituted the Council of Ministers. Instead of taking the model of other countries of the Union, Germany's case, the renunciation of our energy sovereignty is an abandonment of the coal mining regions, however much the publication reports that adheres to the slot agreement sponsored last week by the ministerial clan of green fundamentalism, to give the end point to the only autochthonous fossil fuel we have in Spain. His Government is driving us away from Europe with the return of the socialist-wide Iberian railway policy archaic, which excludes Asturias from the European high-speed network. In short, Mr Sánchez, your government segregates and corneres Asturias, the remoteness of European convergence, and leads us to an unacceptable process of isolation which discriminates against Asturians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I confess that I am afraid for our children and grandchildren. I do not know when we stop building the dream of a united Europe to be fighting the nightmare of a broken Spain. I don't know when the welfare state we work for became a castle with wire that we have to defend from the invasions of poverty and despair. I am not aware of when the miracle of the political transition in Spain ceased to be an example in the world and became a regime that had to be extinguished. All I know is that today, wherever I look, I just hear people screaming, people who think they're right and people who want to change everything. I am afraid because the populisms are taking over the world, because the extreme left and the extreme right are taking Italy hand in hand towards the abyss, because the socialist ministers of Spain are told to shut up when they criticize a feudal regime that continues to treat women as goods in the 21st century. I am afraid because we sell smart bombs to countries that murder and break up independent journalists in their diplomatic offices, and my Government, cowardly, barely takes out a compromise press release. By the way, Mr Sánchez, your particular Fouché, Mr Iglesias, has not called me. I'm so nervous... Do I call him? Will he call me? Are we going to negotiate budgets here or in the Canary Islands? Let us be serious, Mr President, the budgets are negotiated in the courts and not in the prison modules. There are bills that can't be paid. I told you in the motion of censure. Release yourself, break the chains of that prison you've been in. With regard to Brexit, I asked him at his previous appearance to convene urgently the Conference on European Union-related matters to inform the Autonomous Communities. It has not, and in the Canary Islands, the most affected, we are very concerned. Finally, with regard to the multiannual financial framework, we need a common front with the Governments of France and Portugal to demand the defence of interests in the outermost regions, and that exceptional mechanisms be empowered. The canaries do think twenty-four hours in the Brexit. Our agricultural and tourism sector, 80% of our economy, depends on it. I'm done. And by the way on the 22nd the outermost regions meet in the Canary Islands. It will be Mr Juncker, Mr Costa and Mr Macron have never missed, the king will come, but you have not yet confirmed whether he will be at that important meeting, as I say, in which neither Juncker nor the Presidents of France and Portugal have ever missed. The Government expects your response. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone, Mr. President. I, as I have two minutes, am going to talk about two issues, the first relating to migration policies. I do not need to say that the Canary Islands have a particularly close view of the drama that gives rise to a substantial part of the migratory phenomena as far as the African continent is concerned. You know, every time we read the conclusions of the Council of Europe, what do we think? Will they not tire of defrauding us with these papers full of euphemistic and enormously flourishing phrases to repeat the same thing we have all been asking for for twenty years, and with the fact that the conclusion of migration policies is once again a preferential pact with Morocco - although we understand that it is a cross-border State - to exercise gendarme, but without entering into the bottom of the issues, the real origin of migration problems, which is nothing other than impoverishment, injustice, abuse or misery in which many countries live in the case of the African continent? Of course we must develop policies of solidarity and development cooperation! Of course we have to fight the mafias! That's all true. We just saw that they've discovered the pact with Africa. I'm not saying it's wrong; what I'm saying is that, twenty years after so many people are asking for it, it's okay that there's only one concrete agreement with a country, because the pact with Africa will see where it comes from. As far as budgets are concerned, I don't have much time to tell you one thing. Is it really not the time to go to the European Union to tell you that we need to review those policies of austerity and that of expansive austerity, which have impoverished and virtually liquidated the middle and working classes? Isn't it time to speak on behalf of the majority? Isn't it time to put an end to poverty pay and part-time contracts? Maybe it's not also the time to talk about what we do with our young people, because it seems that the destiny we have reserved for them is emigration? We would like to know whether this has been discussed in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much for your kindness, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u47	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u48	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that we must recognise something to the right of the House and to Mr Casado, on this glorious Wednesday that gives us week after sister, and it is coherence, Mr Casado, because he speaks badly of his country here in Congress and outside Congress, in Brussels too. [[Applauds]] Therefore, first of all, our recognition of that coherence. But beyond the over-action to which this new leadership of the People's Party has accustomed us, it will allow me to consider something that you said in your speech unacceptable, and which I hope you will rectify, and it is that you accused this government of beating up. This government is constitutionalist, as has always been the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We have defended the Constitution, we are its parents, its guarantors, the guarantors of the territorial vertebration of this country and the social vertebration of our society. I therefore ask you to rectify, Mr Casado, because there are things that the Journal of Sessions does not resist. [[Applauds]] There are things that the Journal of Sessions does not resist, Mr. Married. Mr Rivera, who is another who never fails, comes to tell us that we are going back to constitutionalism. Mr. Rivera, constitutionalism is us. [[Applauds]] It's the Socialist Party. We are, as I said before, the parents of the Constitution. Do you know what is contrary to the constitutional pact? In 1978 the parents of the Constitution signed it, initialled it and then the Spanish society voted for it, and in it they made it clear that the Congress of Deputies was the reflection of a plural and diverse society. What is contrary to the constitutional pact is its reform so that the voice and the votes of those who do not think like you are not heard here. That is indeed contrary to the constitutional pact. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am now on the business of today's plenary session. The President of the Government appeared today at his own request to report to the European Council on 17 and 18 October. In relation to Brexit, as explained by the President of the Government, he met with the British Prime Minister, Theresa May, and transferred his confidence in moving forward in a common agreement and pushing for negotiations in a constructive and increasingly necessary climate. The Socialist Government maintains a strong European commitment, and that is why we believe that even in those complex political decisions for the European Union - and this certainly is - an opportunity can be found to build a stronger and more cohesive Union. President Sánchez also conveyed to the Prime Minister his willingness to reach agreement on the four bilateral memorandums on Gibraltar: cooperation, security, environment and workers' movements. With the sense of state that we have always had - and we are the only party, I believe, that we have always had this sense of state - this Government has not changed the model of the previous Administration with regard to the most important matters, including Gibraltar, because we understand that the matters that fall within the competence of foreign relations are, as I said, State matters that must be outside party politics. The European Council dealt with issues that are important to Spain's interests and to the European Union as a whole. Spain's objectives in relation to the European Union are summarized as you all know well in the 2030 Agenda, which is a commitment we take with conviction. The objectives set out in it are perfectly aligned with those of this government, which is progressive, Europeanist and feminist. Special priority is our commitment to combating gender-based violence, combating climate change and combating poverty, which has been an absolute priority for a Government whose first decision was to promote a fund for children to attend school eateries and camps this summer. The 2030 Agenda is also a commitment to inclusive and value-based education, such as gender equality, to empower women and girls. Spain is fully involved in this challenge, and all our efforts are aimed at building a more just and supportive Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as migration policy is concerned, for the first time Spain wants to lead and lead a coordinated policy between different countries. A political gesture can trigger a coordinated lonely response, and this is how Spain recently led an agreement with six European countries to welcome migrants who arrived at our shores. We want to help make the European Union, which is our home and whose borders are our true borders in an increasingly globalised world, a place of welcome and not to forget its fundamental values: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and human rights. The migration challenge requires a common response. Spain, ruled by the Socialist Party, is clear, and we would like the opposition forces to be clear as well, and that their contributions were always constructive and in the line of building a more cohesive and supportive Europe. Unfortunately, and although this solidarity is a highly demanded value on the theoretical level, in practice we find that you, gentlemen of the PP and of Citizens, continually undermine the ambitious and courageous decisions of this government, but do not explain to us - perhaps out of shame - what is the immigration policy that you defend. Well, we've won something today, and today no one has said that there are 50 million Africans at the gates of the fences waiting to storm this country. [[Applauds]] We've made some progress. But, look, Mr Casado was talking to us about cooperation with the countries of origin, and I don't know if he doesn't remember that the People's Party government reduced the funds earmarked for cooperation by up to 80%, also for the Venezuelan people, huh? Also for the Venezuelan people. [[Applauds]] By the way, for you to know, it reduced humanitarian aid to 90%. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, to stop campaigning to the extreme right and those in Spain who aspire to imitate them, to stop making a false and alarmist speech about immigration, and to put themselves behind the immigration policy that this government has promoted. In order to build a more social Europe that protects its citizens, the President of the Government also proposed to create, as he explained in the rostrum, a European social insurance of unemployment complementary to national systems, an insurance for citizens which aims to strengthen the social pillar of the European Union, and to accompany further progress in the area of banking union and fiscal union. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, if you define Europeanists - and I assure you that this socialist government is - you should agree on the need for the President of the Government to represent and defend Spain's interests in Europe and in the world. The Socialists' commitment is to end a scandalous stage of cowardice in which Spain has lost its voice and weight in Europe, due to the inaction and neglect of the rulers of the People's Party. That is why the agenda of the President of the Government responds to a clear ambition to place Spain where it belongs on the European and world scene. I was surprised to see the President of the People's Party praise Aznar's foreign policy yesterday; perhaps Aznar in Iraq was going to defend human rights too, perhaps that was what he was going to do. [[Applauds]] Spain today is not explained without an important place in the European Union, and the interests of the Spanish are played here and played in Brussels. Yet their battle to get the best seat on the right-hand bench makes them unable to see it; and even more so since they see through the rear-view mirror a far-right party by which they let the agenda be marked. And look, the appearance of the organized extreme right in our country is bad news for the whole country, and with their false and alarmist speech, the only thing they are doing is to generate the growth of that organized extreme right. You're irresponsible; you're irresponsible. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets we have put forward in Brussels are deeply social and make our priority clear: the defence of the most vulnerable. They contain measures such as raising the minimum wage, fairer taxation, regulation of rents to guarantee the right to decent housing or an increase in research spending. They combine fiscal discipline and social justice, and that is why the Government and this parliamentary group are confident that they will move forward, because they are good for the people. Some in the name of false patriotism are working on a message, as I said before, false and alarmist about these budgets. They do so when they travel to Brussels to speak ill of Spain to Mr Juncker. The Socialist Party's loyalty to the opposition is demonstrated, the PSOE demonstrated it when it asked Brussels not to fine Spain for repeated breaches of Rajoy's deficit targets. Mr. Married, you cannot say the same, and believe me, I am deeply sorry; you are not a patriot, you have long since deserted to defend our country when you have had the opportunity to do so, and I ask you to once again defend our country as we did when we were in the opposition. [[Applauds]] Its strategy is unique to a disoriented and unconscious party, but we will continue to work with Europe, with Spain, and above all with citizens. In the end we have the feeling that you don't know what your political direction is, and if you don't, at least don't bother those of us who do. Look, it seems from your intervention that you come here to defend yourself, you were talking about territorial drift, economic drift. I am going to talk to you about what is territorially derived, and it is that the two times that the People's Party ruled in this country, with Mr Aznar and Mr Rajoy, were the two times that this country faced a serious territorial challenge: first with the Ibarretxe Plan and then with the unilateral declaration of independence of Catalonia. And a socialist president had to come, in that case Zapatero, to solve the Plan Ibarretxe, and now a socialist president, in this case Mr Sánchez, to give future and viability to relations with Catalonia. [[Several Members: Yes, yes]] [[Applauds]] On the economic drift, I'm going to explain something to you that you don't seem to understand. See, in 2017 Brussels places Spain at the head of income inequality in the European Union. [[shows a document]] You come here and criticize the government's fiscal policy but, Mr Casado, I will give you some data, apart from what I have just given you: economic recovery has favored the rich four times more in this country; a richer 1% captured 40% of the wealth, while the poorest 50% barely managed to split up 7%. It's Oxfam International data. Or, for example, that until 2016 the lowest wages were reduced by 15%. And you say that you are against the fact that the workers of this country are paying a minimum wage of 900 euros, but what are you talking about! How can you say that you fight poverty; you fight that the poor can rise socially. You do not fight poverty, you only pretend that the rich are getting richer, as they did during your government. But he is also opposed to the growth of pensions, to the elimination of the pharmaceutical co-op, that is to say, he is opposed to everything that would actually end poverty. I am, and my parliamentary group, of those of Olof Palme who said: we do not fight wealth, we fight poverty. Yes, Your Honor, that is what this government is doing. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this appearance adds up to two issues accumulated by decision of the Board of Spokesmen. Before moving on to the second issue, allow me to express the dismay of the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the death of journalist Jamal Kashoggi in the consulate of Saudi Arabia in Turkey. We also join the call of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for those responsible for this most serious incident to be brought to justice. And since it cannot be otherwise we want to express our defence of freedom of expression as a fundamental right that must prevail in any corner of the world, in any corner of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary groups in this House decided a week ago to request the President's appearance to explain the export of arms to Saudi Arabia. In this regard, it is necessary to set out a number of points in order to understand the issue and to assess it appropriately. First, that we are talking about a contract dated 2015, that is, generated, perfected and practically completed by the Government of the People's Party, since Spain had already received the 9.2 million euros for this weaponry. Secondly, it must also be remembered that former Minister Cospedal disappeared from her office without giving the proper explanations that deserve any transfer of powers, another of those patriotic moments to which the People's Party has accustomed us when it passes to the opposition. Thirdly, in view of the lack of initial information, this Government had to paralyse the ongoing issues with the aim of properly assessing them. Fourthly, when assessing this contract in order to comply with the obligations already entered into, there was no reason to cancel it, in accordance with the arms trade treaty. Fifthly, and lastly, it must also be stressed that at the time of the decision there was no United Nations or European Union embargo on the export of arms to Saudi Arabia. In view of this situation, the Government of Spain, and as it is its obligation, has made it a priority to guarantee the 6000 jobs in the Bay of Cadiz and the operation with Navantia, which amounted to 18 billion euros, and in this regard I believe there has been sufficient consensus. Remember even the practically unanimous statements of the political leaders in Andalusia, including the mayor of Cadiz, and the understanding expressed by the rest of the comrades of their political formation at least at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ask the government more than it defends itself, but above all we cannot ask that we give up defending the general interest of Spain. [[Applauds]] Apart from all the above, the Socialist Parliamentary Group welcomes the intention of the Government of Spain to create an ex post verification system to control the exported material when there is any doubt about its final destination, adding an additional guarantee to our exports. Spain will be a pioneer in this innovative system, which has only very few countries in the world and which demonstrates our commitment to industry, as well as to international peace and security. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Government for his appearance and explanation, as I reiterate the support, as it cannot otherwise be, of our Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u49	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to each and every one of the speakers in this debate, which is certainly important. I will answer each and every one of them for the order of intervention there has been. Firstly, I will reply to Mr Casado, as leader of the opposition and leader of the People's Parliamentary Group. I would first like to convey a reflection to you, Mr. Casado. This is the first time that you have taken part in the Government's appearance in the rostrum, and I therefore believe that we must lay the foundations at least for the relationship and parliamentary dialectics, which is undoubtedly difficult at times. I understand that the fervor of the moment can lead you to say more words per minute than usual or even tone, but some of the issues you have said in your speech are not acceptable. Accusing me as a participant and responsible for the coup d'état being perpetrated in our country is not acceptable, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] You have a huge opportunity now, in the turn of replica, to withdraw this sentence. I'm asking you to do it. Of course we're going to have substantial differences in multiple areas and we're going to reproach each other for a lot of things, that goes into the game and it's consumable, but you can't criticize me and you can't blame me for being a so-called coup player or a so-called collaborator of coup. So what I am asking of you, Mr Casado, is that you withdraw here when you come up to the rostrum that what you do is fill your parliamentary group with ignominy. [[Applauds]] Important are all the articles of the Constitution. You repeatedly point to article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, but also article 113 of the Constitution, which proposes and constitutionally recognizes a motion of constructive censorship, which is what this Government has done when it was in the opposition, to raise a constructive government option that is precisely doing many of the things you did not do when you were in the Government. In any case, Mr Casado, what I can say, at least as a recommendation, is that I oppose it, that I return to moderation and that I abandon the chasm, the radicalisation, because I think that is not what the centre-right voters in this country expect to do to a large extent. You expect a renewed People's Party, and renewing is evolving, not involution, not returning to past theses that precisely what you have done is that you are in opposition right now. [[Applauds]] I have difficulty in being able to answer some of the questions, because the purpose of the appearance was clearly the various advices that there have been: the Article 50 Council, the Regular Council, the Eurosummary and then what has to do with the question of Saudi Arabia. And you have not answered any of these questions. Therefore, the reflection that I would like to make to you, and I hope that I may perhaps clear it in your second round of interventions, is whether you really care and take up Brexit, the Spanish citizens living in the UK, the UK citizens living in Spain and the Spanish companies that have commercial interests and investments in the UK. Because you have not referred to any of that, Mr. Married, you have come here to tell us anything but the object of the appearance. [[Applauds]] Is it because you don't care? Is it because you don't care? Is it because you don't know him? I am obliged, however, to enter into some of the issues that you have raised, because if I do not answer them I would not be doing my duty. Look, I have already told you this many times about Catalonia and the position the People's Party has held over the past fifteen years. Now I see him many times walking around with Aznar, presenting books and referring to aznarism. Finally, you will have to see where you are ideologically positioned, whether on the centerright, right or extreme right. But remember one thing, Mr. Casado, José María Aznar won the elections speaking Catalan in privacy. [[Applauds]] Remember what I'm telling you. Because, of course, you come here and it seems that you have not been ruling for the past seven years. You come here and it seems you have not been in a party in which when a political proposal was raised to solve the Catalan question, such as the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, they raised small tables in Andalusia and everywhere in Spain. I even remember the then President of the People's Party in Andalusia, Mr Arenas, warning Andalusian children and Andalusian families that, as a result of Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy, they would end up learning Catalan in Andalusian schools. [[Rumors.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u51	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u52	What I want to remind you of, Mr Casado, is your irresponsible opposition when Mr Rajoy was President of the People's Party and Mr Zapatero was President of the Government of Spain with the question of the status of autonomy, the appeal of unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court - by the way, being Vice-President, Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría said that it was a mistake to have submitted that appeal of unconstitutionality - the two non-referendums that were raised and that were held in Catalonia, the unilateral declaration of independence and the situation that led last year to the unprecedented application in the democratic history of our country of article 155 of our Constitution. Shouldn't this lead you to a reflection on whether perhaps what you're doing is asking for the application of Article 155 again because you don't have any kind of speech, a solution for Catalonia? [[Applauds]] Moreover, it does not stop drawing attention that you said the other day in an interview in a digital medium that the first decision you would make would be the application of a hard article 155. That is his political proposal to solve the problems in Catalonia, a hard article 155. Like there's an article 155 soft or half soft! Look, Mr. Married, Article 155 must be taken with extraordinary responsibility. I heard him say in an interview that he would be willing to apply Article 155 even without the support of other parliamentary groups, especially the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Well, look at what I'm saying to you, Mr. Married: you're an absolute irresponsible person. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] It is, it is, it is. Honestly, Mr. Married, it makes it very easy. Really, think about it when you get home, think about the opposition strategy you're doing, it makes it too easy. And, of course, it does not break constitutional consensus. If unfortunately we have to see ourselves in a situation similar to that experienced a year ago, with a government of the People's Party that had precisely the firm, sure support and even at times biting our tongue because there were issues that we were not enjoying, they need a broad parliamentary consensus, Mr Casado. That path, that path you have chosen I don't know where it will take you, I don't know, but think about one issue: everything you're saying about territorial policy, everything you're saying about migration policy doesn't benefit the People's Party; it benefits Citizens and Vox. [[Applauds]] Venezuela. Venezuela is usually a regular subject with Mr. Rivera in control sessions and in appearances when he governs the left. I have to tell Mr. Married and also Mr. Rivera, and I will tell you with all due respect and without acrimony, that you are unscrupulous politicians. [[A honourable Member: Well!-Rumors.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah, and I'm gonna tell you why. [[The Rumors Continue]] Yeah, listen to me.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u53	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u54	You know why? Because you are using the pain and suffering of the Venezuelan people for domestic consumption. [[Mr Rojas García makes negative gestures.-Applause]] Yes, sir. Of course, what else does it give you that as leader of the opposition I did not recognize the elections in Venezuela? What else do the meetings we have held with different leaders of the Venezuelan opposition give you? Tomorrow I will meet with another person we have just released in Venezuela, a student who has been in prison for many years in Venezuela as a result of Maduro's regime. What else does it give you, Mr Casado, that we have supported in our first Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the European Union all the sanctions and the tightening of the sanctions regime to the leaders of the Venezuelan regime, as precisely this government has done? That doesn't matter to you! Because what they are trying to do is to move and translate a sensible political position, full of common sense, which is to keep the sanctions to the leaders of the Venezuelan regime but also, from the point of view of the European Union, to facilitate a dialogue that is necessary to solve a deep political crisis in Venezuela. What else does it give you? Because in what they are trying to capitalize on the crisis, suffering and pain of Venezuela to try to reproach the Socialist Parliamentary Group and this government for the support of Unidad Podemos. Really, let's speak clearly, if you Venezuela don't care! What matters to you is to reproach the support of United We can the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] And that is not to be ashamed, Mr. Married; that is not to be ashamed. You also have a bad memory, Mr Casado, because you come here a little less than telling us that when the People's Party won all were advantages, that there were commitments in all areas that were being fulfilled by the Spanish Government towards the European Union. I remind you, Mr. Casado, that you in the government failed to meet the deficit targets in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Yes, Mr. Married. I must also remind you that two letters were also received by the Spanish Government at the request of not a Director-General but Commissioners and Vice-Presidents of the European Commission at least in 2016 and 2017, alerting you to the deviation of the deficit targets from the budgets you sent. I also do not want to mention the fact that you have put Spain behind you in the transposition of a great many Community directives which this Government is trying to implement right now. It is therefore not by far the European commitment of his Government that this Government has. We're doing everything you didn't do. By the way, I say one thing to you and also to Mr Rivera, because it seems that you do not remember that the public deficit forecast you presented in 2018 was over €46 billion, and the European Commission was warning that you would not reduce the structural deficit. The Spanish Government's proposal reduces the structural deficit by 0.4%. That is the degree of commitment of the Government of Spain to what you have raised. It is also true that when you talk about the General Budgets of the State there is one thing in which it seems to have at least some hope and that is that you will stop blocking. Are we going to be able to talk about budgets? Are you going to stop squandering on the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the amendment of the Budget Stability Act, which enjoys broad consensus and an absolute majority in this Parliament? That is respect for Parliament, Mr Casado. [[Rumors]] I say one thing to your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and also of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - bearing in mind that Mr Rivera has appealed to the Socialist Party voters - these budgets are budgets that are burdened with common sense. [[Laughter]] Common sense! Or is it not common sense to recover unemployment benefit from unemployed people over fifty-two years old? Or is it not common sense to recover the social security contributions of non-professional caregivers, who are mostly female relatives of dependents? Or is it not common sense to increase investment in R & D & i and science by 6.7% in this country? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Or is it not common sense to raise the inter-professional minimum wage to 900 euros in a country whose labour reality is dramatic, with 6 million workers paying less than 600 euros a month? Isn't that common sense? I am convinced that there are voters from the People's Party and citizens who consider this to be common sense. That is, that you must approve the General Budgets of the State, Mr Married. [[Applauds]] You're talking about Gibraltar. Look, Mr. Married, I'll tell you something. The position maintained by the Government of Spain and maintained by the Government of Spain in the negotiations with the United Kingdom is the same, the same that was maintained by former Minister Dastis and Mr Rajoy. No, don't look at Mr. Margallo, look and talk to Mr. Dastis. Believe me what I'm saying, talk to Mr. Dastis and talk to Mr. Rajoy, too. Talk less to Aznar and talk a little bit to Rajoy. [[Applauds]] You will see how the position of the Government of Spain is the same as that held by the previous Government in relation to Gibraltar. [[Rumors]] If the matter is clear, Mr. Married, get a good look at it. Let us see, one thing is the withdrawal agreement and another is the political declaration of future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. In what we are now in the withdrawal agreement, in the transitional period. That is what the previous administration of the People's Party saw well and which we have followed, inherited, and being a matter of State we are following the same line, which is to agree a protocol of relationship on a fundamental issue such as Gibraltar. Nothing more. It deals with issues relating to citizens' rights, air transport, taxation, the environment, fisheries, judicial cooperation and customs. That's what's in the protocol. From there, logically - as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has already said - there are four memoranda of understanding that we are currently negotiating with the United Kingdom. One is about a much more accurate aspect of citizenship rights, the other about police and customs cooperation, the other about environment and fisheries, the other about tobacco and the other about cooperation and the tax treaty. And I have to say that we have practically reached agreements in the first three and where we have difficulties is obviously about tobacco and the tax agreement. Now, don't misunderstand my words, don't twist my words, don't manipulate them. I'm not saying that if there's an agreement, well, and if not, so is. What I have said is that there is already a protocol, which has been agreed, with the support of the head of the negotiation by the European Union, Mr Barnier. That is the protocol, an agreement has been reached that is consistent not only with the position that I have held in this Government but also with the previous one, and in what we are in the negotiation of four memoranda with the United Kingdom on Gibraltar. If we come to those agreements, well, and if not, nothing happens because we have already signed and reached agreement on the protocol. I think this is important because Brexit cannot be stopped for this, but it is logical that Brexit cannot be produced without taking account of Gibraltar's appearance, as we have maintained from the very beginning. In short, Mr Casado, I would like to have a much more fruitful debate with the People's Party, less breast strokes, less chrissation, more moderation, more future. At the first and last meeting I had with you, Mr. Married, I offered you five agreements, I think I remember - one of them was about migration - you rejected them. He has not talked about science, infrastructure or Europe; he doesn't care. [[Rumors]] You expand and export your irresponsibility all over Europe, no problem. I also tell you one thing, Mr Casado, the Spaniards take note, believe me, take note. [[Rumors.-Mr.Echaniz Salgado: Of course they take note!]] And I tell you one thing: you didn't know how to rule and you don't know how to make opposition, and at the rate you have, you're going to be quite a few years in opposition. [[Applauds]] On Mr Iglesias' speech, I would like to raise a previous question and it is precisely in relation to the comment or digression he has made on Brexit and Catalonia. He spoke first of all of the form and also of the substance, of the way of doing politics which he has now led to Brexit, and precisely called on all parties. I was not just blaming that some forces that are defending Catalonia's independence are not looking at the political consequences they are suffering and that they are going to suffer much more intensely when Brexit materializes. And he was also talking about us, about the part that we are not in favour of segregation, of that separation, that we are defending the union of Spain, that we are defending that there can be a recognition of the territorial diversity of our country without prejudice to equality between Spaniards, and that if there was a point of union, if there was a common denominator, it was precisely the strengthening of the European Union. I am sorry to disagree with Mr Esteban; I have not said that the independence forces are anti-European forces. On the contrary, they are forces that defend another kind of Europe. What I am saying is that after the Brexit the European Union has to be strengthened, and if the European Union has to be strengthened - and that is the great opportunity that Brexit has for those of us who remain in the European Union - what we will have to do is not centrifugal, but open federal integration processes. And I think that is the great avenue that we can also draw as a lesson to solve the Catalan issue at the national level. And not just them; I think we have to take note of what has happened in the Brexit and be very aware that if Brexit won, even if it was for 51%, probably not, it certainly had a lot to do with the lack of reform of the European Union and the lack of reform of the United Kingdom on issues that then resulted in a vote against the system, either the British or the European Union. I therefore believe that what I was doing was a reflection on the reform, the transformation and the need for us to be aware of what we are playing at, because historical mistakes we are already experiencing. And see what Brexit is costing with a country like the United Kingdom, which had its own currency, its own central bank, imagine something much closer as it could be a potential segregation of a part of our territory with which we share not only central bank but also currency, culture, history and multiple issues. This was simply the approach I wanted to take to them in relation to Brexit to translate it into domestic policy. I cannot agree with you, Mr. Churches, that we are having a low profile in international politics. On the contrary, to be in the General Assembly of the United Nations and to move the commitment of this Government to feminism and gender equality, or to move the commitment of this Government to an approach to the phenomenon of human rights-respecting migration, or to move that Spain has returned to the path of environmental commitments and that we take the 2030 Agenda and the commitments linked to the Paris Agreements very seriously - which have precisely been criticized by some interveners, to which I will refer later - I believe it demonstrates precisely the opposite, that we do not have a low profile, that we have a profile commensurate with the size and importance of our country. Therefore, the climate issue and the 2030 Agenda issue are two references that we as a government advocate to incorporate into the European Council resolutions and are there. I share with you the reflection you have made on security. The European Commission does not fail to draw attention to the fact that the European Commission has drawn attention to an extremist government with which the People's Parliamentary Group is making ideological gestures. Mr. Married, can you tell us what essential values you share with VOX? [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, can you tell us why you don't reject VOX's attendance at the event you're about to hold in Navarre? [[Applauds]] I believe that one of the great messages that we have conveyed to the whole of the European Union is that two left-wing forces - as we are United Podemos and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party - we can make expansive policies, policies for the reconstruction of the welfare state, labour rights policies with an increase in the minimum professional wage as important as the one that comes from the agreement, without having to call into question - as the Italian Government, for example, has put forward - the path of stability and the pact of stability and growth of the European Union. In that regard, the appreciation that you have of course received with my support and I fully share it. Another of the issues that we have also raised at this European Council and which has unfortunately found little success in the various interventions has been the proposal of the Government of Spain to create a security fund for unemployment. We wanted not only to talk about the banking union, not just about the need to complete the MEDE, but also, why not, to start talking about the fiscal union and start talking about the need to stabilise through public investment at European level, such as an unemployment fund at Community level. On the question of Saudi Arabia, Mr. Iglesias, ladies and gentlemen - which has been touched logically in each and every one of the interventions - I will say the following. We as a Government have to respect the contracts of the Administration. That's legal certainty. This is a contract that was signed by the previous Administration and therefore we can only do to ensure that it is fulfilled. From there, we have to be aware that our relationship with Saudi Arabia is not limited solely to the sale of defence material or to the sale of arms; it is limited to multiple areas that have to do with business investments, with commercial investments, that feed many people in Spain, that create jobs. In this regard, what I have come to say in the speech is that of course we reject any violation of human rights, of course we reject and condemn this act, and we have made it public as a Government of Spain, at the level of the European Union and also at the level of the United Nations, because we have aligned ourselves with their approaches to the conclusion of the investigation, that they should be held accountable - in accordance with legislation and justice - for those who have been able to commit this terrible crime against Yamal Kashoggi. Of course, from there, note will have to be taken in relation to Saudi Arabia. We, what have we proposed? We have proposed that we can strengthen our controls on ex post verification of arms that can be sold to third countries, as in this case Saudi Arabia. In any case, we must combine that respect that the Spanish Government has logically for multilateralism, peace, freedom and the defence of human rights, with the fulfilment, of course, of contracts from previous administrations, which is what this Government has done. I also tell you one thing, we are willing to talk with all the parliamentary forces and with all the institutions about the need to reorient the arms industry in our country, but we must be aware that we cannot do this in a day, in two days, in three days, or in the short term. Therefore, if we want to protect jobs, as I am convinced that this is what all of us here want, and therefore also to reorient the arms industry at the same time, let us do so, but let us not delay. In that I can assure you that the Government of Spain is open to your suggestions. I share with Mr Esteban that what we need is a European position on the sale of weapons because there is some hypocrisy here, there is no trade equity and therefore the impact that certain positions that are not European or Community affect some more than others, and we logically have in this case to be aware of everything that implies, everything that would come behind. I also share with other speakers that the sale of weapons requires an international awareness, as well as global legislation, and as a Government we are prepared to participate in that reflection. What I would say to Mr. Iglesias, Mrs. Martín, Mr. Bustamante and Mr. Gómez is something I said in my first speech, and it is that no one questions the pacifist commitment or the antimilitarist commitment of the mayors, also of their party in the Bay of Cadiz, because they are aware of the implications in labor and social terms that any bankruptcy may have in relation to Saudi Arabia. You yourself, Mr. Iglesias, said on one occasion that you understood that Kichi, the mayor of Cadiz, put forward the workers' contracts. All I ask is that you also take that into account when addressing this Government and my person. Of course, what I have to do is combine and balance both interests, but there is no doubt that we have peace, freedom, that we are absolutely dismayed and that we reject what has happened in the Consulate of Saudi Arabia in Turkey, but logically we also have to defend Spain's interests and I believe that they are perfectly compatible within the framework in which I have tried to develop our position as a government. Mrs Martín has made a reflection that I do not share. First of all, Trudeau, the Prime Minister of Canada, has not said what you have commented, simply for information. Secondly, there has not been a change of position - I have said it in previous appearances, but I also say it again today - regarding the Aquarius; moreover, it has been precisely the Aquarius one that brought the Aquarius two and the Aquarius three, and right now the Government of Spain is trying to articulate a mechanism of solidarity and co-responsibility for migrants who are currently at risk of shipwreck in the Mediterranean. So much so, ladies and gentlemen - so that you may see that the position of the Spanish Government in this matter has not changed at all - that we are taking care not only of migrants arriving on the coast of Spain, but also of migrants at risk of shipwreck in the Mediterranean. There is no Government in Europe that is taking on the burden of solidarity and responsibility like the current Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] With regard to Mr Rivera, the proposal on the question of Saudi Arabia is underlined again; I have said it before in my first speech and also now in replying to Mr Iglesias. The proposal is to implement an ex post verification system in the sale of arms. That's what we want to do. Of course, the position of the Government of Spain is the defence, as I said earlier, of human rights, but also that of holding us accountable for the contracts that were made by previous administrations. I will tell you one more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the various parliamentary groups, also in connection with Mr Tardà's intervention: At this time there is no pending sale of arms by the Ministry of Defence. The only thing that has happened was that of the four hundred bombs, signed by the previous Administration, and this Government, as such, has not sold weapons of any kind to Saudi Arabia and there is nothing pending, neither in process nor in signature. I insist, there has been no sale, during these more than three months that I have been in charge of the Government, of arms to Saudi Arabia; neither is it pending, nor is there anything signed, so I believe that the commitment of the Government of Spain is quite clear, quite firm and unequivocal. All we're doing is respect a contract that was signed by the previous administration. Mr Rivera, you always put President Macron, President of France, as a fetish, and I have to tell you that you must learn a little more and better than Mr Macron says because what Macron has done has been to distance himself and to separate himself absolutely from the position of Germany. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, there was a three-way statement between the United Kingdom, France and Germany on Saturday, on Sunday there was a disarray by Chancellor Merkel - by the way, in voice, because there is no official statement on paper by the Government of Germany - and yesterday Mr Macron what he did was to get absolutely out of Merkel's position. With this, I simply ask you to inform yourself before expressing your views because sometimes you skate, for using a colloquial term. Mr Rivera, I would recommend some humility, because you are giving lessons to other parliamentary groups about your alleged brotherhood with other political formations, you who partnered with Libertas, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] You criticize everything, no matter what you do, everything is critical. 'To be fifteen more minutes ahead of La Moncloa'. This is the vest that you are going to repeat until the election date, Mr Rivera - perfect, there is no problem - but I have to tell you that you are going to use it for quite some time. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] But, of course, she criticizes me until I go to Cuba. But there have been three potatoes, Mr. Rivera! [[Laughs.-Applause.-Speaks.]] You show a lack of knowledge of the implications and deep sense of our relationship with Cuba. Does it not seem to you reprehensible that for more than thirty years there has been no President of the Government who has gone to Cuba? Doesn't that sound reprehensible to you? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs]] That is, it seems to you reprehensible that Obama, Hollande or three popes have gone. [[Rumors]] Do you think that's reprehensible? All in such a way as to criticize the evil Mr Sánchez who wants to continue for fifteen minutes at the head of the Government of Spain. Mr. Rivera, please. It's like when you talk about constitutionalists. Let me tell you that we constitutionalists are the ones sitting here, each and every one of us, the three hundred and fifty Members of Parliament, Mr Rivera. [[Applause.- Various Members: Not all]] Yes, yes, they are, and do you know why, Mr. Rivera? Because they are presented under the rules that are contained in the Spanish Constitution. [[Denials of several Members]] Yes, under the Organic Law of Electoral Regime, that which you want precisely to modify - also Mr Married - to illegalize all those parties that do not think like you. [[Rumors.-Mr. MP: The PSOE, isn't it?]] Then we entered the territory of modernity. Mr. Rivera always comes here and tells us what's modern and what's not modern. It is not modern to defend, ladies and gentlemen of the House, feminism, what we are going to do to it; it is not modern to mobilize with the women of this country on 8 March in favour of equal work; what is modern, Mr Rivera, is to defend the surrogate pregnancy. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That's the modern thing. It is not modern to raise the interprofessional minimum wage, unless Mr Rivera asks it - who asked for it in 2008, a thousand euros, and instead, it seems that if Uniti Podemos and the evil socialist government propose an increase to 900 euros then that is an improper cacicada of these times. What is modern, as I said before and reminded Mr Casado, is that 6 million workers in our country cover less than 600 euros a month. That's modern for Mr. Rivera. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Rivera, the reflection I would like to make is that one sees what Casado says and what Rivera says, what Mr Rivera says and what Mr Casado says and believes: Good, we will have twins on the Spanish right. Now it turns out a trill is out. Hasn't that trill gone out to feed the right-wing speech that you irresponsibly and Mr. Married are feeding? [[Applauds]] With regard to Mr Tardà, I believe that in everything that Saudi Arabia represents I have set out the position of the Government of Spain and I do not want to go much further on that, simply reminding him that this Government has not sold weapons of any kind to Saudi Arabia. We haven't done it, and there's nothing pending, or in process, or signed. I insist, all we have done is respect from legal certainty contracts that were signed by previous administrations. You have made reference to the King's reprobation that took place in the Parliament of Catalonia. Yesterday I had the opportunity to reply to a senator from the Republican Left on this issue and what I say to him is this, Mr Tardà: you have gone beyond the remit of the Catalan Parliament, you are questioning the shape of the Spanish State, and that is being debated in the Congress of Deputies, not in any autonomous Parliament. It is therefore the duty of this Government to appeal this decision to the Constitutional Court, as we are going to do. In relation to Quebec, I had the opportunity to be in Montreal with Prime Minister Trudeau and there I did a reflection on Quebec. And my reflection on Quebec was that, regardless of what path Canada took at the time or the path we can take here to resolve the Catalan issue, the lesson we have to learn from Quebec is that if we believe in politics, we will find a political solution to the conflict in Catalonia. I think if you look at what agreement was reached in Quebec, one of the independence leaders would hardly be willing to move you here, to Spain. In any case, I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Tardà. I was very drawn to the attention of Mr Maragall, Foreign Affairs Advisor, in an interview with the BBC, because what he came to say was that while independence in Catalonia did not have 50% support, it was very difficult to defend a referendum in Catalonia. Something is moving forward, because you are already acknowledging that you do not have a social majority in Catalonia in order to be able to impose on the other side that referendum of self-determination. Therefore, I return to the usual, Mr Tardà. What's important? The important thing is that you open a process of dialogue with the non-nationalist side of Catalonia. When we open this process of dialogue with the non-nationalist side of Catalonia and find among us an agreement that represents 70% or 80% of Catalan society, I am convinced that we will be able to take action and resolve the political crisis that is being experienced in Catalonia, also here, in the Congress of Deputies. I would like to say to Mr Esteban, as representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, that I can only agree that sometimes, when one goes to these European councils, one realizes that things could go faster, but that they go too slowly on issues that are peremptory for the whole of European citizenship. Migration and economic and monetary union certainly are, or for example Brexit. I believe that in relation to the Brexit and the digression that it was linked to Catalonia I have already responded before. With regard to Gibraltar, I believe that I have also done so and on immigration I will tell you a number of questions, the first with regard to unaccompanied foreign minors. You know that we have made a budgetary change to put on the table EUR 40 million and to be able to help the autonomous communities that are now receiving these minors in order to be able to accompany them because, as we say on many occasions, they are first minors and then immigrants, and therefore they have a number of rights as minors that have to be safeguarded and recognized by the different administrations. I will also tell you that in this Council of Ministers we are going to pass a real decree where in those autonomous communities that have already shown their willingness to be supportive in the sharing of these unaccompanied foreign minors we are going to start to channel it. That is why what we have to do is say to the other autonomous communities, that they are not yet doing so and that they have not yet shown that availability, that they do so, because I believe it is for the benefit of all. I believe that what this Government is doing in the area of unaccompanied foreign minors is what we must do, which is to provide economic resources for them to reach the municipalities and the autonomous communities and also to enable this system of sharing of minors among all the autonomous communities. We would like it to be all the autonomous communities and I am already announcing to you, Mr Esteban, that in the Council of Ministers on Friday we will adopt the royal decree that will already begin to materialize the mechanism of sharing the so-called MENA among the autonomous communities. You remembered Tusk's words. Just by mattizing, I'll tell you that I never defended regional platforms. What I have been able to propose, together with French President Macron, are the reception centres on the European continent. Any country in North Africa virtually all African countries, if they are not all reject regional platforms completely and I understand it because in the end it is outsourcing the management that we have to do every day on our continent right now. In fact, with these regional platforms they would again have the same problems that we now have with regard to migration flows, with regard to return policies and with regard to integration policies. We do not believe in regional platforms and so I transferred it to the President of the Council. Obviously, in the conclusions they represent and have the heading of twenty-eight Member States, there are things in which we recognize ourselves and others in which we do not recognize ourselves or we do not recognize ourselves so much; this, for example, is one of those issues, because we are not in favour of regional platforms. I must also say, because of the impression I had of the debate at the European Council, that there are fewer and fewer countries that believe in such solutions; and those that believe in such solutions are closely linked to political positions on migration and Europe that have nothing to do with our own. As I said in my first speech, we do defend that Africa-European Union alliance. I have to say that in December there is going to be a meeting between European and African countries, not to talk about migration but about economic development, and there will be Spain. Following Mr Juncker's speech from the European Union, there were two elements that he raised and that we are prepared to discuss. One has to do with something that you mentioned, which is precisely the asylum directive. There are many countries that are very far ahead of the reform and we would like it to be in the shortest possible time. I in the European Council argued that this reform should be before the end of the year, but unfortunately we remain on an asso as possible, that is, as soon as possible. Of course, we are not satisfied, but we also did not want to block the agreement precisely on this issue. The second element concerns Mr Juncker's proposal for the reform of the Return Directive. In this we have indeed expressed our doubts, although we will logically see what the European Commission is proposing in this respect. Mr Xuclà has also spoken about Catalonia and I think I have already answered it. On appeals to the Constitutional Court, we will examine this issue that you have commented on. I have to admit - and I believe that in this we will be satisfied with the parliamentary groups that we want to reduce or lower the level of conflict - that everything that has to do with the recovery of the universality of public health has involved, among other issues, that we should give up this resource of unconstitutionality and others related to energy matters, and I believe that this is the line that we should follow. With regard to Northern Macedonia, I have to say that the support of the Government is unequivocal. We certainly support Parliament's resolution and regret what unfortunately happened with the outcome of the referendum. In any case, I believe that it is an extraordinary opportunity for both the European Union and NATO that we can resolve this political crisis. I have to acknowledge, of course, the leadership and courage of the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, and also of the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, because, precisely facing the radicals, facing the radicalism of their countries, what they have done has been to offer a horizon of agreement that I believe is worthy of applause. Mr Bataller also told me about Saudi Arabia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u55	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u56	I think I have already explained the position of the Government and I will also tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, we have the European position. Yesterday, Mrs Mogherini spoke in the European Parliament on this issue and we are supporting the same position that the High Representative of the European Union is defending on the question of Saudi Arabia, the same position. Mr Matute, I believe that the important thing is to keep that balance that I have shown from the rostrum between what constitutes respect for human rights and what represents the responsibility that we have with the fulfilment of certain contracts of previous administrations. To Mr Alli I make the same reflection as to Mr Rivera: we are all constitutionalist forces, even those forces that want to break with the Constitution are constitutionalist because they are presented through laws emanating from the Spanish Constitution. I note the level of implementation of the budget for Navarre before calling for general elections. To Mr Martínez, I would like to convey to him that nothing further from our reality, since compliance with the law is not fundamentalism, Mr Martínez, it is not; defending labour rights is not fundamentalism, defending our climate and environmental commitments is not fundamentalism, what I believe is that it is responsibility and the irresponsibility was precisely what you and also the previous Government expressed by not giving a solution or a horizon of improvement to the mining basins of Asturias as a result of the abandonment to which they were subjected during the last seven years. I believe that we today or tomorrow - Minister - will sign with the main social partners an agreement for mining in Asturias which I believe will also be very important for the welfare and prosperity of Asturias. [[Applauds]] Two more questions to Mr Quevedo and Mrs Oramas. To Mr Quevedo I must say that it is true that we would like things to be faster in the European Union in everything relating to migration, and I will also tell you one thing. One of the main agreements that will have, or has already been, because we have practically completed it, has been the increase of 10 000 troops in Frontex, which I believe is important for everything that has to do with border control. Secondly, I have to tell Mrs Oramas that I take into account her request to bring the autonomous conference together on the issues of the European Union, the Carue, and I think it is important to do so within the framework of the Brexit. I take this proposal into consideration and take it into account and I would like to convey to you that, of course, in everything that has to do with the financial perspective, the Spanish Government is defending two issues. The first is that these financial perspectives should be adopted before the European elections, i.e. that the Union's budgetary horizon should be clarified as soon as possible. I have to tell you that this is the position of the Spanish Government and that there are other governments that also defend this same position but, unfortunately, I am very afraid that it will not be possible, although that is the position, at least of the Spanish Government. Secondly, in this debate - and I am aware that the Government of the Canary Islands has spoken to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food - we are clearly defending the interests of fisheries, the interests of the common agricultural policy and the interests of the cohesion funds. That is the position of the Government, which does not shrink from economic resources towards the CAP and cohesion policies, which are so fundamental to many territories of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I have responded, if not satisfactorily, to many of the questions that you have raised, but yes to establish a position on elements that are fundamental to Spanish policy, such as Brexit, such as migration policy and how it has to do with relations with third countries, in this case with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I am at your disposal to answer other questions; I hope that these questions will be about what concerns us, what concerns us today in this debate, about these issues, and not about domestic policy, because there will already be an opportunity to talk about these and other issues in other appearances. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u57	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Ladies and gentlemen, you have five minutes and, after that time, the microphone will be cut. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, are you talking about moderation? Did you look in the mirror? Have you seen who surrounds him? Do you know who supported you in the motion of censure? Can you justify why Mr. Zapatero went to talk to a house with Mr. Otegi? Mr. Otegi kidnapped Gabriel Cisneros, I say this because they talk about the Constitution, about a father of the Constitution, about my party, who was here until very recently. Sorry, Mr. Rupérez, ambassador and member of the UCD, of our party, and shot Mr. Cisneros, father of the Constitution, in the gut. Can you explain to me what Mr. Zapatero talked about with Mr. Otegi? Or what did Mr. Iglesias talk about - I imagine they will have dispatched - with Mr. Puigdemont? Or in Lledoners prison with Mr. Junqueras? And you're talking to me about moderation? Who is allied with the independenceists, with the Batasuns and with the far left speaks here of the far right? Look, the People's Party was founded in 1989, has four parents of the Constitution who ended up in their ranks, has the first president of democracy, who ended up in their ranks. You of moderation, democracy and the Constitution, not a single lesson. [[Applauds]] He said I said you were responsible for the coup d'état being perpetrated by the independenceists, and what if not? At the meeting we had in Moncloa I told him, apart from himself to three agreements: gender violence, infrastructure - I even spoke to Mr Ábalos, who introduced hydraulic infrastructures -, and defense - so today he had a rather fruitful or/and constructive position with the subject of Saudi Arabia because, although it seems scandalous to me what has happened with Kashoggi, like everyone else in this House - I told him that it was necessary to apply a 155 and that we gave him the votes of the absolute majority in the Senate to approve it, because it is very easy to ask for approval but it is necessary to have one hundred and forty-seven seats. So when he says we're in solitude... Excuse me, we took you fifty seats here and we have the absolute majority in the Senate, and we just won the elections twice with Mariano Rajoy, two years ago, in which you drew the worst historical result of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what we offer you is that 155 applies because, what else has to happen in Catalonia, Mr Sánchez, what else has to happen? Do you have to insult the head of state? Do you have to ridicule the children of the Civil Guard in your schools? Do you have to hang monigotes from a bridge with my party logo? Do you have to harass my parliamentary spokesman's family? To crush the deputy secretary of the People's Party of Studies and Programs? Do you have to continue insulting Alicia Sánchez-Camacho's son? Do we have to keep being escorted by Catalonia? Do we have to continue receiving in the mailboxes, like Xavi García Albiol, bullets with bloody foreheads? What else has to happen in Catalonia? The kale borroka? That Mr. Carlos Sastre - point out, Mr. Tardà, speaking of tearing apart, the one who put a bomb on former Mayor Viola of Barcelona and the businessman Bultó and tore them apart in front of his family - that Mr. Carlos Sastre next week begins to give courses in schools on independence? Do we have to put up with that in Catalonia? Therefore, here, lessons of democracy none. In Catalonia... And Mr. Tardà, you should talk less about shooting, because your shooting party should shut up. [[Applauds]] Ours has no inconvenience. For historical dignity they should be silent about shootings and their history. And of course don't misrepresent words. On the anniversary of Company's incarceration, what I said was that I wish it wouldn't happen to Puigdemont; and unfortunately he had to run away so he wouldn't be in jail. That's what I was warning on the anniversary of the incarceration. What happened seven years later we deplored it just as much you and I. But from the Republican Left, lessons of democracy, even in those years, to us not one. Not one! [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, let us be positive, 155 with our votes, we assume the cost. Pardons Act, we have proposed the amendment to prohibit pardons to persons convicted of sedition or rebellion. Symbol law, can you say here, in front of the flag of Spain, what your spokespersons said yesterday when they said no? It's better to say, if you're outraged, and if you're not, it's okay. If the flag is outraged, the national anthem or the head of state according to the Socialist Party is all right. We have proposed the amendment of the Symbols Act also to penalize officials who consult with a yellow tie and teachers who teach with a yellow tie. That is, maintaining the neutrality of public space. Why does he not support the amendment of the Foreign Action Act to close the embassies? Why does the Budget Stability Act not put in place to prevent state structures from being financed by our taxes? Why don't you learn about what we say about the Party Act, which is not illegalizing parties that think differently, but illegalizing parties that justify or encourage street violence? Which is that they broke a woman's face the other day, they broke her nose for removing a yellow tie, which is that they beat police and civilian guards. This happened in Catalonia. Do you think this is not enough to enforce the law and put order in Catalonia? Well, then I'll call elections and we'll be putting our orders very soon, Mr. Sanchez. Do it now, do it now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u59	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u60	I'm done. Then we have a control session and it'll give me time for something else, but I'll tell you one thing very clearly. We are not going to tolerate any lessons and I have to refer, I am very sorry, to the spokesman for Bildu, who told me that he has come to say that we must equate cases with those suffered by the prisoners of age. Mr Matute, in my party, you, those whom you justify and do not condemn violence, killed almost twenty of ours. Therefore, that Bildu comes here to talk about human rights is something unworthy that we are not going to tolerate and I also hope that the Socialist Party, which has also buried, and here we are all together, some of your own, will not allow the indignity to equate those who have been killing the Democrats and the constitutionalists with those who want to break Spain or who justify the heinous crimes of the darkest stage of our history. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u61	Thank you very much. Then intervenes by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Mr. Iglesias Turrión.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u62	Thank you, Madam President. 'I have personally authorized contacts with the Basque Liberation Movement.' José María Aznar, 1998. End of date. [[Applauds]] Mr Aznar sent representatives of his Government to negotiate with ETA. The next time I see him and do an act with him, he asks him how it is. [[Applauds]] First of all, I would like to refer to a number of issues which had nothing to do with the subject matter of the appearance, but which have become the subject of the debate, and therefore I do not think that it would make any sense to omit them. There have been basically three: Catalonia, Venezuela and the General Budgets of the State. Mr President, you said something clever to Mr Casado about Catalonia. He told him that Mr. José María Aznar came to the Presidency of the Government saying that he spoke Catalan in privacy. I will make you a proposal: not that you speak Catalan in privacy, but yes you may hear more Catalan in privacy. [[Applauds]] Regarding Venezuela, you have said something sensible: the right has no scruples when it comes to this issue. They have become a political artifact in all countries and anyone is already a dangerous chapist: the Democratic Party in the United States, Mr Jeremy Corbyn, anyone facing the right. Here I give you a piece of advice that is very personal: in this matter I would listen to Zapatero, who is working for the dialogue between the government and the opposition, and I would listen a little less to Mr González, who makes public acts with José María Aznar. [[Applauds]] With regard to the budgets, you said something that is true, some of the measures, for example the minimum wage, are common sense. Recognize me at least that we had to squeeze them too hard for us to come together to common sense. Let's keep working together in common sense. You said something about Brexit. I will speak to you with the legitimacy of representing the only state-level political force that was in the UK campaign defending the remnant. The problem is never democracy, the problem is not that British citizens can vote; the problems are other. I do not think it is sensible for you to tell the Catalans that exercising the right to decide could lead them to a disastrous economic situation. You don't have to be afraid, you have to convince. Because if certain tones and styles change, we can all agree and we can face a political conflict with dialogue that is absolutely central to understanding the history of our homeland. You have criticized me for telling you that the international profile is low. All right, let's not put ratings on the profile, but I make three proposals. The first is that we make something that you and I have already agreed to. We agreed that Spain would sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Let us put this into practice now, because this is an agreement and this would mean that our country will assume leadership. We realized that his Government was going to study the recognition of the Palestinian State. Let us put it into practice now, because Palestine deserves Spain to lead Europe by recognizing the State of Palestine. [[Applauds]] You have said that you defend an international migration policy that defends human rights. Let's put it into practice. I make the third proposal: let us end the hot returns, which are illegal and are an attack on human dignity. [[Applauds]] Speaking of security, let's keep it that way. Spain has to represent an alternative to the Europe of Salvini, and that means building an anti-fascist front that translates into social policies as the fundamental guarantee to defend Europe. In front of the Europe of Salvini, anti-fascist security policies. And allow me a digression, which today we are talking about digressions: since we are talking about antifascism, let us do what is necessary to prevent the remains of a dictator from being in the center of Madrid. [[Applauds]] Finally, about Saudi Arabia - in this we do not agree, but I aspire to convince you - Saudi Arabia represents an artifact of humiliation for Spain, and that has to do with the role that some have played in relations with Saudi Arabia. I do not understand that you continue to defend the impunity of the monarchy in your relations with Saudi Arabia. To defend the corruption of some are already the People's and Citizens' Party. Perhaps the monarchy served in Spain in the past to prevent a coup d'état; in 2018, zero tolerance with respect to corruption. It is a shame that, on behalf of Spain, the Head of State takes those photographs that have been pointed out here. Finally - and now you have - you have referred to Kichi, who has not stopped proposing industrial alternatives to shipyard workers. But I don't think you and I can hide behind the mayors. You represent a government that has more than 5 million votes, I represent a parliamentary group that got 5 million votes. We can do things that mayors can't do, an industrial policy that gives workers an alternative. Workers can be defended and at the same time not have to sell weapons to Saudi Arabia. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-In-Tide, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u63	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u64	Thank you, President. I'll be brief, President, because we have five minutes. First of all, you have literally said that the opposition of this Parliament has no scruples. Mr Sánchez - and now I will address him - when you finish your term, which I hope is soon for the good of Spain, when you have to look for the definition of unscrupulous in the dictionary will come out your face. You're an unscrupulous gentleman and you're proving it. [[Applauds]] Unscrupulous because you are able to say three months before you reach the Government that you would never, ever reach the Government with whom you have given a coup d'état, and you are sitting there, unscrupulously, with the votes of those who give coups d'état. You have negotiated the budgets of Spain. You are negotiating pardons and you dare to pardon those who have given a blow, in a prison, Mr. Sanchez. Are you going to talk to me about scruples when you negotiate the prison pact, pardons, prebends in prison to the thugs? You don't have scruples, Mr. Sanchez. Speaking of scruples, in Catalonia we defend the Constitution, not those who attack and liquidate it, those who defend it point out to us, they persecute us, they threaten us, and you face that you think of nothing other than comparing Citizens with the separatist commands. That's what Mr. Iceta and his party did, comparing the thugs to the Democrats, and that's not having scruples, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Not having scruples, Mr Sánchez, is ignoring, underestimating the pain of millions of people who suffer tyranny in Venezuela, and you have done it here in this rostrum, it gives you everything, you have shown it. Have you heard those people? The other day I was in Bogotá meeting with Venezuelan opponents in exile - there is exile - you had to listen to the testimonies of people who have just murdered a party partner. That's where you had to listen. But you, no, you preferred to listen to Zapatero who's a friend of Maduro's, and we listened to Maduro's victims, yes. If you really believe that what is happening in Venezuela is an internal game or an internal game, it is that you don't know anything. What is happening in Venezuela is the biggest exodus that has happened for many years in Latin America. By the way, Mr Sánchez, I have asked you what you are going to do in Cuba, not that you are not going to Cuba. I know you believe the pope, compared you to the pope, well, no. [[Applauds]] I know you think he's a messianic leader. I think he's a prime minister and for a short time. But in any case, Mr Sánchez, answer me: Are you going to defend human rights in Cuba? I've told you before. Yes or no? You say: Obama went to Cuba. [[Laughter]] Yes, Obama went to Cuba, Mr. Sánchez, and in his speech he spoke about human rights and called for the freedom of political prisoners. That's what Obama did. And what Obama did was meet with the Ladies in White. You're gonna do it? Are you meeting with the dissidents? Or are you going to Cuba alone as a salesman? Because I tell you one thing, it seems to me very good that there is commercial freedom with other countries, but one cannot go to a brother country like Cuba, where it is going to be prohibited in the Constitution that the Cuban regime are arming... Do you know that the regime is going to be banned from criticizing directly in the Constitution? Have you heard Payá's daughter? I did, I was meeting with her last week here in this House. You haven't heard her. Listen to Cuban dissidents and when you go to Cuba, please don't embarrass us and listen to Cuban democracy. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, we to go to Alsasua are not going to ask permission from your partners. We go to any corner of Spain without asking permission, we are Spaniards and we defend freedom in any corner of Spain, I have done it and we continue to do it in Catalonia despite their pacts and we will do it in any village of Spain, and whoever does not like it, will endure. There is not going to be a single people in Spain, if we govern, where there is no freedom and where the Constitution cannot be defended freely. That's what we're gonna do. By the way, on 8 October you were not in Barcelona when you had to defend the Constitution against the coup, neither you nor Mr.Iceta; by the way, on 12 October, neither were you. Let's see if you add up more, that every time you have to defend the Constitution you get erased. And let's see if he's with the constitutionalists and not the thugs. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Sánchez, you have discovered something we did not know, that Bildu is a constitutionalist. Bildu, the heirs of Batasuna, are constitutionalists! I don't know if they'll agree. Torra is a constitutionalist according to Mr. Sánchez. Republican Left has become constitutionalist thanks to Mr Sánchez. Don't you need all those gentlemen to be president? Don't you dare call the ballot boxes without having the seats of those who want to liquidate Spain? I say one thing, Mrs Lastra, yes, the European Parliament obliges us before 2024 to put an electoral floor in Spain between 2 and 5%, read it. We propose 3% so that those who want to liquidate Spain have to withdraw 3% in this country, and if they vote all over Spain well, and if not, they will not be in this House that represents the Spanish people. If you think it is wrong, that is what the European Union says. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you have abandoned constitutionalism. Constitutionalism is not Bildu nor Esquerra nor Torra nor Puigdemont. Constitutionalism is to give one's hand among those who defend national sovereignty, to give one's hand among those who have a common European project, to give one's hand in defending our freedoms in any corner of Spain, to defend our public servants, not to look elsewhere in Catalonia, not to agree with those who want to liquidate your country. That's constitutionalism. I know that there are still constitutionalists in the PSOE, but I also know that you are not one of them. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u65	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, the Republican Left subject was approved without going to class. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Proud of Republican Left, proud of our republicanism. Fifty mayors shot, deputies of this House shot, thousands of Republican leftist militants shot, and always, always defending as now the democratic way to reach the republic. Yes, yes, yes! I know that some of you would like, wish, to transform the Catalan democratic civic process into a public order problem. They want it! In fact, they work to get a scenario in which what is addressed are issues related to and inherent to violence, so you are based only on lying. And in addition, they try to win the ideological battle of considering that what is tension in democratic societies, of course, is fractured. Having said that, Mr Casado, if you grant yourself a course patent to insult 50% of Catalans - perhaps a few less, it is true - independenceists who vote on October 1st, if you take a course patent to insult us by always telling us coups, we will also remind you of the same thing. And this war-civilist spiral I think neither his descendants nor mine deserve it. Moreover, here I met Mr. Gabriel Cisneros and was very proud to have discussions with him and even learned because he was very wise. But, hey, Mr. Otegi was acquitted in 1990. In 1990 Mr Otegi was acquitted of the kidnapping of Mr Cisneros, then there are no lies here. I don't think you can tell lies, especially you who are a Democrat. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, if you think the right way is the Canadian way, propose it, propose it. [[Applauds]] That's it, because the conflict that you and we have is a conflict between democrats. It is a conflict between democrats, and a conflict between democrats is resolved with more democracy. You propose what you think is the solution and we will propose what we think is the solution. What I'm saying is that you can't build independence by obviating 50% of Catalans who aren't independents, so you can't build a Spain, maybe you'd say federal without taking into account 50% of Catalans who aren't independents. For this reason, the independenceists have to understand that the referendum, which will be inevitable, should perhaps not be between independence yes and independence no. Perhaps the referendum should be if more autonomy or independence, but what is clear is that there cannot be a democratic solution that does not integrate the vast majority of the citizens of Catalonia. So we, even if we have differences - and I think we sometimes warm up - are for dialogue. Let's see if it stays recorded; we're talking about dialogue, we want to negotiate everything, but from reality, and the reality is that there is a half of Catalonia, maybe a little less, that is independent. I understand that it can hurt you, of course I can understand, but it's reality. So I propose, I propose; we will also propose, but what is clear is that the referendum will be inevitable. I still think that, although you are not responsible for signing arms sales contracts - you are not responsible because it was signed by the People's Party, it is true; it is also true that the Socialist Party at other times had signed sales contracts - I think you should feel challenged and at least try to give some explanations to Spanish society, to Catalan society, to all the societies of the whole Spanish State, about what the fate of these last weapons has been. I think you should be able to ask a politically difficult question, I understand, but it comes to be summed up as follows: the Spanish State is responsible not only for the sale, but also for the fate of these weapons. I think the least you can do, Mr Sánchez, to get out of the way is to assume that Spanish society has the right to know whether these weapons have killed little, much or nothing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u68	Mr President, you have told Mr Casado, to some extent with good judgment, but I do not think that he has gone into the matter, that he does not accuse him of being an accomplice to a coup d'état. I think that it should have gone further - and it is time for us to say it loud and clear - than it is worth talking about a coup d'état when there has been no coup d'état here, nor any attempt at a coup d'état, because the very concept of a coup d'état involves force, the credible coercion of force, and the whole Catalan process has been peaceful. [[applause]] [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Yes, of course!]] Yes, yes, despite some who would have wanted something else, but it has been strictly so. And see, if not, why the Spanish courts in Belgium, Germany, etc. have difficulties. It also seems to me an absolute frivolity to speak of rebellion or sedition in the same sense. The Catalan process did not aspire to change the Spanish political regime - which would have to be at the centre of the objective of a coup d'état -; what has happened in Catalonia is a constitutional crisis around the Catalan national identity, and that is approached politically. Let's not confuse words. Then, of course, it is normal for Mr Rivera and Mr Casado to compare Mr Junqueras, for example, with Tejero. Well, no, no, no! And any international objective observer, any academic anywhere in the world can tell you. [[Applauds]] Don't try to fool public opinion. They trivialize words, and that is a problem even in taking legal steps. In the same sense, we talk about imprisoned politicians, but we mean imprisoned politicians for what? It means politicians in prison like saying: These are like other politicians; other politicians of parties who, out of corruption, are in jail. [[Applauds]] Well, no, no! Neither Mr Junqueras nor the leaders of the process have anything to do with such politicians; they have nothing to do with them, and this is also how public opinion is tried to be deceived. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you and your group to make it clear to us all that we cannot talk about a coup d'état in relation to what happened in Catalonia. It is good enough to deceive Spanish public opinion. [[Applauds]] As far as MENA is concerned, Mr President, I know that you consider this to be an important issue, but this is not a matter of money and whether you are going to give it to a city council or an autonomous community. It goes beyond all that, beyond that with regard to Euskadi, who has a differentiated economic regime, he would not enter. Beyond all this, it is a question of responsibilities and autonomous services that are overflowing, genuinely overflowing and, as well as at the European level, we are all asking that Hungary, Poland and all countries assume responsibility and that there can be a balanced distribution of migration, so I say to you with regard to the MENA and the responsibilities of the Autonomous Communities to provide these services. It cannot be that while some are giving such services, they are investing and trying to put all the means at their disposal, there are others that put absolutely nothing, because then obviously flows go where those services are provided. It can't be, you have to take letters in the matter and you have to face a distribution and not leave it all alone to voluntarity. Finally, you told me - and I thank you for the accuracy - that it does not defend platforms, but it does defend controlled centres in Member States. All right, I'm not going to tell you that'so much rides, so much rides', because no, because some are in Africa and those who were in Europe - who are the ones you defend - would obviously enjoy a more orderly system and all the legal guarantees and would also be under European law. But basically the idea is the same, the idea is a sort of embalming and there going to distinguish between asylum or economic immigration. We still have that problem, we have to be serious about deciding on economic migration. If you want, it's a softer wall, but it's a wall. Maybe I'll have to put it to you? I don't know, what I'm wondering is what about these topics that were on the table in June and now it looks like they're gone. Finally - and I conclude, Madam President - I wanted to ask you a very direct question, Mr President. If the asylum directive does not come out - it needs unanimity and I am afraid it will be very bad - are you prepared to promote enhanced cooperation in this area? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u69	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rivera, I am sorry to say that Mr Aznar's words of approval today are taken by Mr Married because he has been much more radical than you, much more radical than you. [[applause]] Mr Casado, you have missed an exceptional opportunity to prove that you are a man of state and you have lost it by accusing - as Mr Esteban rightly said - the president of the coup government, of defending the coup or whatever you want to say. We ask for moderation because you are a radical, because it is radical to say that there are 50 million Africans crouching at the gates of Ceuta and Melilla willing to assault Spain. It is radical to ask for the application of article 155 without legal facts that support it, and you know it; that is the bad thing, too, that you know it. It is radical to call for the illegalization of political parties because they think differently from you or because they are independentists, and you know it. It is radical to oppose the exhumation of the dictator and also to take Fernández Díaz here to teach us a book from the Francisco Franco Foundation. It is radical to share the values of Santiago Abascal and VOX, that is radical. I ask you to moderate yourself, Mr Casado, just as the President of the Government did, above all and for what he said before, so that you do not feed that extreme right which is being organized in this country, because you are going to be responsible for the appearance of seats in this Congress of Deputies in that far-right political party in two years' time. Mr Rivera, your criticisms in budgetary matters, as you will understand, we are not going to admit them, because if you were these from here on the right they would continue to rule, those from the Gürtel, those from the Punic, those from 'Luis be strong', those from 0.25 of the pensioners, those from the cuts, those from the pharmaceutical coffer. [[applause]] All of those would continue to rule. By the way, at two on the right, the blue and the orange, I just want to remind you that those independenceist votes of the Congress of Deputies that you so despise are the ones that made Ana Pastor president of the Congress and not Patxi López. [[A Member of Parliament: Olé!-Applause]] I just want to remind you of that. In conclusion, Madam President, the Government of the nation can be asked to defend human rights throughout the world, and that is what it does, throughout the world, but what must be demanded of the Government of the nation is to defend the general interest of Spain, which is nothing other than the interest of its workers, which are jobs; these are the two things that we have to demand from the Government of Spain and that is what the Government of our country is doing. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your briefing. It has the full support and support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u71	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Casado, I have to remind you that former President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero when he was leader of the opposition was the one who proposed the State Pact against Terrorism. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: He signed it, but he didn't propose it.-Rumores]] Yes, it was. He was President of the Government José María Aznar, was Minister of the Interior Mr Rajoy, and from there he drew one of his most memorable phrases, that of the joker's rabbit. It was the President of the Zapatero Government who put the State Pact against Terrorism on the table as the leader of the opposition. Why? Because we always understood that the fight against terrorism was a matter of State in the Government and in the opposition. You only understand it when you're in government, not when you're in opposition. [[Applauds]] Why? Because they have no sense of state, Mr. Married. I remind him that with Zapatero as president of the government democracy defeated ETA because it put an end to the violence, and I also remind him that it was even when Otegi was in prison. Therefore, Mr Casado, if you, gliding such insinuations, defamations, what you are trying to say to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and to this government that we are not with the victims and against terrorism, I say no, Mr Casado, that you are not learning. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Learn from the lesson of your former leaders. I will tell you again what you said in your speech. He has accused me, the President of the Government of Spain, of being a participant and responsible for the coup d'état that is being perpetrated in our country. I insist, do you keep those words, yes or no? Does he keep them, yes or no? If you keep them, you and I have nothing more to talk about. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Do you or do you not maintain, Mr. Married, that I am a participant or responsible for the coup d'état? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u73	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u74	Do you or don't you keep those words? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u75	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u76	Does he keep it or not? What I'm telling you, Mr. Married, is that you can perfectly make opposition. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u77	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u78	It can oppose, criticise the Government of Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u79	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u80	You can do it, of course you can, but don't insult, don't slander, don't slander. Do the opposition. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] As for Mr Iglesias' speech, I would like to comment on a number of things. The first, in relation to the exhumation of the dictator, I believe that the important thing for the left is for the dictator to come out of a space that belongs to the state. This is the important thing, the historical fact. Let us not divert attention, let us not give them arguments to the right. What is going to happen when the dictator's remains are exhumed is that it is going to end with a mausoleum that filled the whole of progressives in this country with shame. That is the reflection I would like to convey to you on this matter. The second is about Brexit and Catalonia. I'm sorry I didn't express my thoughts to the best with complete fidelity, but my thoughts are clear; I don't threaten, on the contrary, I don't say any of that. [[Several Members: Nooo!]] No, what I am saying is this: those who defend independence and those who do not defend it, we have to take note of the historical mistakes that are happening a few kilometres from our country. We have to be aware that if the British people voted against Europe, if they voted to leave Europe, something we did wrong from Europe too, some reform, some transformation we did not do well. That's what I'm talking about, ladies and gentlemen. The reflection that I would like to convey to you on this issue, also to the independence forces, is this: look, Mr Tardà, what happened last week. Last week hundreds of thousands of people - especially young people - in the United Kingdom, mainly on the streets of London, spoke in favour of a second referendum because they wanted to stay in the European Union. Months ago the independence forces in Scotland have called for a second referendum on the independence of Scotland from the United Kingdom. Conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen, this type of referendum is the only thing that they do is to segregate, fragment, confront and confront societies. [[Applauds]] By coming in to answer Mr Tardà - then I will return to Mr Iglesias - how many times have we already voted, Mr Tardà? How many times has Catalan society been self-determined? How many? In the last four years, how many times have they been called to the polls? How many? Besides November 5th and October 1st, how many times? There's always been the same answer, Your Honor. He has voted 80% of Catalan society, they have all voted. All those who have the capacity, who can vote, have voted and told us clearly that Catalan society has a very clear and meridian photograph: forty percent in favour of pro-independence forces and the rest in favour of other solutions that allow Catalonia to remain in Spain. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, it is, ladies and gentlemen; let's make things clear, it is. Therefore, the solution to vote cannot be that which you propose, Mr Tardà, must be an agreement, and that agreement, first, must be born of the Catalan forces, must be born of the Parliament of Catalonia and then, in fact, be brought here, as it was in 2005 in the Parliament of Catalonia, where 90% of the Catalan society represented there voted in favour of a renewal of the autonomous and statutory agreement between Catalonia and the whole of Spain. The historical error was precisely that which perpetuated the right of this country, which again falls into the historical error of the usual territorial aggravation. If in the end the reflection that has to be done by the People's Party, instead of beating one's chest saying that they want a 155 hard without waiting for Citizens or the Socialist Party because they are there to save the homeland, is that they have no political project for Catalonia or Spain. [[Applauds]] But if we think of major agreements where the nationalist and non-nationalist parties in Catalonia are represented, I think, Mr Tardà, that we can meet. I hope so and we are working to make this the point of unlocking a situation that has been monopolizing and focusing political life in Spain for more than ten years. That is the spirit and spirit with which the Spanish Government works and believe me that from that position we will try to resolve this issue. Mr Iglesias, you tell me about a new industrial policy in defence of workers. Of course, it's a matter of time. I have said this here and I have said this: we are prepared to reorient everything that has to do with the arms industry policy of our country, but, of course, in the short term, what we have to do is to accompany that reorientation with an inescapable fact that also affects the municipalities in which you govern, such as the defence of the rights of workers and jobs, and I think that is what the Spanish Government is trying to defend and do. Mr. Rivera doesn't care if we talk about the Brexit, about the cybersecurity that Mr. Xuclà raised earlier in his first speech, about migration... You've come here to insult, slander and slander. Yes, you, Mr. Rivera. Do you know what your problem is, Mr. Rivera? I say this in very colloquial terms: You have been stifled by the motion of censure. Get over it. [[Applauds]] He asks me: Are you prepared to defend human rights in Cuba? The answer is yes. Do we agree? Perfect. So, I'm not just going as a salesman anymore. You have raised something that seems unacceptable to me, and I will say it to you with all the respect of the world. In the months leading up to October 1, 2017, October 1, 2017, and then until December 21, which was the autonomous elections, you had no municipal power in Catalonia, no mayors; the Socialist Party did. Those who defended the Constitution and legality and did not hold a referendum in Catalonia on 1 October were the mayors of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. [[- Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs.]] Yeah, you know that. Moreover, I often hear you say quite surprising things, but I'm going to give it back to you, because I think it's also true. You have an extraordinary responsibility in the Parliament of Catalonia, you are the first force in Catalonia, both in votes and in seats. The question is very simple: What have you done to defend the rights of non-nationalists in Catalonia? Nothing, you don't offer any political exit, no solution. All they do is reject a parliamentary group to the People's Party in the Parliament of Catalonia and live off reproach and conflict. [[Applauds]] Mr. Tardà, you're telling me I'm being questioned. Of course I feel questioned. It would be more important if I didn't feel challenged by the facts that have happened! That is why we are proposing to strengthen ex post controls on the sale of arms to third countries. Mr Esteban has raised a number of points and a direct question about enhanced cooperation. I say to you that yes, the Spanish Government will defend this enhanced cooperation as long as the Common European Asylum System cannot be reformed. With regard to the MENA, unaccompanied foreign minors, it is not only a matter of economic resources, but I believe that the Government of Spain is doing what it has to do, and it is giving way to that interterritorial solidarity, and we will see its fruits in this Council of Ministers next Friday. I have to tell you that you have been very successful in your reflection on the People's Party. In 1994 - many of those present here will not know, I was reminded by the Vice-President of the Government - Mr Trillo, then Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, made a proposal for amendment, an amendment for amendment, in which he said that the crime of rebellion, which is inherent in an alleged coup d'état, must be given by military or armed civilians to military order. Mr Esteban, there are political projects that are evolving and others that are evolving. The one of Mr. Married even passes on the right to a gentleman like Mr. Trillo. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. First of all, a question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u83	Mr Sánchez, do you believe that your Government defends Spain properly?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u84	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, my government, yes; you, no. At least try; another thing is that I don't get it. I'm telling you, that disloyal opposition you're holding out of our borders doesn't take you very seriously. Come on, you don't get taken seriously outside and, with the step going, neither inside. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u86	Mr. Married, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u87	Mr Sánchez, first of all, do not be so dignified with us and do not feel so offended because we say that a government always has responsibility for what is happening in your country. Just as it is not fair for someone to say that the unemployment figures are the fault of the Government, because it is obviously the fault of those who fire or who do not hire, but the ultimate responsibility is the Government. Therefore, for all the details that I have given you regarding the situation in Catalonia, what I am telling you is that your Government is indeed responsible for not taking steps to attack that coup against the State - which is as I always say, Mr Esteban, to be pulchres with language - and therefore I do not get off that issue. Be just as worthy of Mr. Torra when he threatened you or Mr. Tardà when he threatened you yesterday as well. In that sense, we must be consistent. Another thing, to make it very clear. I don't speak bad about Spain. I speak ill of your Government, which is what you have done since the opposition every day. [[Applauds]] Or is it that we are already in the despotism that faced Mrs. Díaz the other day in Andalusia, in which if we speak badly of the results of the Junta, we speak badly of Andalusia? Now, if we say his government is a disaster, do we speak ill of Spain? Hey, but who walked around the London School of Economics, Portugal and the United States putting Mr. Rajoy back and a half? Was that anti-patriot, as Zapatero used to say when we told him what was going to happen? In the end, it happened. What we are telling you is that there are some economic indicators - which have not given me time to comment on - that are already on. What I'm telling you is that you lie about what the People's Party did. We raised the minimum wage by 8% two years ago and 4% last year. We have agreed to increase it to 850 euros by 2020. We raised widow's pensions 8 points, 3% the lowest and 1.6% the average. We did the salary equalization. We let there be more money so that the payments you froze officials could recover. So don't tell us that this is a matter of anti-social budgets and that I am going to the European Union to talk badly about budgets. No, I am asked at the meetings of our community partners how Spain is doing. And Spain - so much likes to appeal to my predecessor - is not going well or, as Mr Rajoy would say, Spain had to be rescued by how the Socialist Party left it. I am proud of my predecessors. The problem is that yours left Spain in the same bankruptcy in which you now plan to leave it again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u88	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I understand that the question I was asked was whether I considered that the Government of Spain was helping the international prestige of our country. You have then gone by the branches, as it is usually usual and does not answer the question I have asked you before. Do you or do you not withdraw the accusation that you have made me as President of the Government to be a participant and responsible for the coup d'état? [[Strong Protests]] Say it, Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u90	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u91	Say it, Mr. Married. It's very simple. Say: I was wrong, sorry, to remove that phrase from the Journal of Sessions. That's it, it's all right, Mr. Married. I ask you to be moderate and to abandon the chasm. The Government of Spain is doing its duties at the international level. He's doing it when he's defending women's rights. It is doing so when it recognizes and expands the rights of persons with disabilities. Here, in this Parliament, a first step has been adopted for the recognition of the right to vote of 100 000 people with different abilities. These are facts that transcend borders and incardinate us with commitments of the United Nations, with multilateralism and with a vision of Spain and very different society, Your Honor. Of course, it also has to do with climate change, with the Paris agreements or with what represents a commitment to the 2030 Agenda. We're doing our homework, Your Honor. We are going to international forums and we are going to Europe to defend a progressive, humanistic vision of migration. We are not hypocrites, Your Honor, we are not going to Brussels to say: close the borders, there are no papers and, instead, then we take the hand with the poor sub-Saharan immigrants arriving at the port of Algeciras, as you did, Mr Casado. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I've said something very important to you before. You said the other day that you shared essential values with the far right of this country; we, Mr. Married - and that is another difference between you and me - do not share any value with the far right of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u92	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW JUSTIFYES THE RETURN OF THE DIPLOMATIC STATE TO THE DELEGATE OF THE FLAME GOVERNMENT IN SPAIN? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000789]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u93	Question now by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Go ahead, Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u94	How does the withdrawal of diplomatic status justify the delegate of Flanders in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Esteban, you will understand very quickly. In 1998, I worked for the United Nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Laughter]] I witnessed the refugee crisis of the war in Kosovo as a result of the ethnic cleansing that dictator Milosevic was doing to the Kosovar population at the time. Comparing Spain with Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to me to be unacceptable from all points of view, and that is why, logically, we withdraw that place from the representative of the Flemish Autonomous Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u97	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u98	I do not know whether you reduce it to that expression or something else, anyway it is an unprecedented act in the EU and you have shown yourself to have very fine skin in this case and give little value to freedom of expression. European countries often endure criticism, even if they are harsh. It is true that there are other countries that do not do so; Canada criticized, through its foreign service and in a tweet, human rights in Saudi Arabia and Saudi Arabia withdrew diplomatic status from the Canadian ambassador. But I think you don't want to compare yourself to Saudi Arabia, but we're in another league, or we should be. They have managed to have the Flemish Parliament unanimously, by unanimity of all political groups!, protest against the decision of the Spanish Government and in defence of freedom of expression. It would appear that Belgium has not had any aggravation, and there has been pressure from Mr Borrell to the Belgian Government to characterise itself as the Government, supporting the Spanish Supreme Court before its courts, to which they had to tell them that we are working with respect for the independence of the courts. There have been statements, for example, by Mr González Pons saying that Belgium opens the doors to criminals; or by Mr Casado, who calls himself leader of the opposition, saying that Belgium is the sanctuary of the fugitives from justice: Belgium has become a refuge for secessionists and elevators of terrorism. There has even been talk of suspending Schengen. There's been a lot of things here, but, look, why haven't they given the soup to Belgium? The Belgian vice-president, at the time, also said that the international community should be vigilant and that, of course, in Poland or Hungary that would not happen. Well, but the soup they want to give in your frustration to Belgium, they give it to Flanders in the face and the greatness is demonstrated in the attitude with the little ones, Mr President. There is also much to learn from the Belgian case - see - in relation to what solutions can be for Catalonia and Euskadi. Flanders may have a representative who is granted diplomatic status and also has competence in some areas of external affairs; perhaps some solutions could come from there. Point it out. I insist, in order to give you, with the frustration of the foreign minister, a soup to Belgium, you do not have to give it to Flanders.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. He knows that the Belgian Government is a coalition government and that that Vice-President you referred to is a member of the Flemish party. Of course, we find the statements made by the President of the Parliament of Flanders not on one occasion but on repeated occasions unacceptable in this case. I will bring you a case that may seem more visual, so that you can see the position of the Government of Spain. When Mr. Married talks about apartheid in Catalonia, what do you think? [[Mr. Esteban Bravo: Bad, but I can't stand it]] No, but do you think...? [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u101	Mr. Esteban, Mr. Esteban!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u102	Does that seem inappropriate to you? Do you think it's excessive? Do you think he's unlucky? I am convinced that yes, because, among other things, as John Carlin well wrote about another very similar expression that was used in that case by the former vice-president, Mrs.Sáenz de Santa María, in the primal career, what came to do above all was to transfer injustice with those who had suffered the apartheid of South Africa. The question, on the part of a political leader of an institution such as the Flemish Parliament, not on one occasion, but on several occasions, that Spain is little less alive in Catalonia than in Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to me to be unfair to the Bosnians, to those who suffered the war crimes, to Catalonia and to Spain. And that is why the Spanish Government does what it does is to defend, logically, its good name, which must be what prevails in international relations: dignity and mutual respect. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u103	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK THESE BUDGETS ARE GONNA GIVE A JUST TREATMENT, IN THE END, TO VALENTIANS AND VALENTIANS? [[File number. 180/000788]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u104	Question by Mr Baldoví Roda, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u105	Mr Sánchez, do you believe that the new budgets will give a fair deal, at last, to the Valencians and the Valencians?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. I think so, I think Valencia wins. Many times when we talk to parties more about territorial anchoring such as that of Compromís, or with other parties such as the Basque Nationalist Party - even in our party, when we talk to autonomous presidents - there is a territorial perspective; on many occasions, the General Budgets of the State are measured around the level of territorial investments that occur in each of the autonomous ones. It is true, it is true and we must look at it, but there is also a question that goes beyond all that and it is the level of investment, the recovery of rights and freedoms in our country, of the social spending that this budget proposal can open up to a lot of people who need it. With this, from a social and territorial point of view, I believe that these budgets meet the demands of Valencians and Valencians. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Baldoví Roda, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u109	I have a dilemma, Mr. President. I honestly don't know what I like the most, whether to see the People's Party and Citizens in the opposition or to see you as president. If I appeal to my most basic instincts, I have it clear: first, to see them in opposition; if I appeal to reason, I have it even clearer: to see you as president. And not because it's you, forgive me, because you already know I like you, but because of the window of opportunity that was opened when we legitimately evicted the PP from the government. [[rumors]] You had the four Valencian vows of Compromís because we honestly thought that with the new majority we would recover rights as citizens and also as Valencians. And the budgets must serve precisely to correct these imbalances, and it is not necessary to tell him that the Valencians are starting from a rather bad starting situation. To this day, Mr President, we have no guarantee that this will change. I insist, today we have no guarantee. Yesterday, for example, the news came out that in dependence we will go from 12 to 16% - very far from the 50% that the law makes, and we want guarantees for Valencian society, Mr Sánchez -; that there will be compensation until there is a new financing model; that there will be financing for metropolitan transport; that the debt of the consortium of the Navy will be assumed; that it will be invested in infrastructures; that there will be a connection with the El Altet airport, the coastal train, and that there will be a solution to the illegitimate debt. Speaking of new majorities, I end with a suggestion: you have in your hands to solve the dilemma that the Supreme Court has about who has to pay the mortgage tax. Only Article 68 of Royal Decree 828/1995 has to be changed, where it says: the acquirer of the good or right, who says: the lender, i.e. the bank, will be passive. End of the problem. You can do it, Mr. Sanchez...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. With regard to the last of the issues, which I believe is important, logically, I am empathizing with their approach, but we will wait until the Supreme Court finally pronounces on 5 November. From there, logically, the Government of Spain will take note, as it cannot be otherwise. But until then, I believe it is important that we respect the work of the Supreme Court, as the Spanish Government is doing. As for your dilemma, I'm glad you solved it. I think the good and the positive, since you are also a progressive force, a left-wing force, is that the left-wings are understanding each other, we are cooperating and we are cooperating. This budget proposal is a first touch of many things that can come and that can come in cascade, that will be good for Valencians and Valencians and for the whole of Spanish society. Of course, in the budget proposal I say to you that, in the more territorial area, the deliveries to the Valencian Community in these budgets would involve 340 million euros of resources; compensation for the loss of VAT, 380 million euros of resources. There would have been the possibility of having 277 million more euros if they did not block both the People's Party and the Citizens' path of stability, but that is something I imagine you will have to blame both political groups and not this government. And these General State Budgets are going to cause more than 300 000 Valencians to see minimum pensions and also non-contributory pensions increased by 3%. They're going to stop paying 680,000 pensioners the pharmaceutical co-op in the Valencian Community and 20 000 people are going to benefit from the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The Lord]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF PAPERS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DOES THE SPAINS THINK THEY CAN KEEP CONFIDENCE IN THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000796]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u113	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality. Question by Mrs Dolors Montserrat, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u114	Thank you, President. Your Honor, do you think the Spaniards can have confidence in your government?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u115	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, trust is not an entelequia, it is regulated, it is in this House. You lost her, we got her and we worked with her. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u118	Madam Vice-President, the People's Party is the guarantee of unity in Spain and that is why the Spanish trust us. [[Laughter]] That's why the Spaniards trust us, because they know that we will never play the future of Spain nor the coexistence nor the rights or freedoms of Catalans and the rest of Spaniards by agreeing to budgets in a prison with those who hate Spain, with those who want to use the budgets to liquidate Spain. The Spaniards trust us because they know that we will never sell our principles and values for grabbing the chair of the Moncloa. It's been a scandal this week. That you have sent the political emissary, the economic vice president, to a prison to exchange budgets for pardons is a humiliation to all Spaniards; whitening and normalizing, a greater shame that had never happened in Spain. And, Vice President, in democracy, not everything is worth it. Can you imagine in another European country more shame than to agree budgets with incarcerated coupsmen? Can you imagine Merkel, May and Macron negotiating budgets with incarcerated thugs? That Europe itself has questioned their budgets. The European Commission itself does not have the accounts because its budgets are a fraud, they deceive Europe and they deceive all Spaniards. These budgets are the seed of the future economic crisis in Spain and it is the sure ruin to which the left have us accustomed when ruling Spain. That is why we Spaniards cannot trust you. We cannot trust a government that does not respect the division of powers. We cannot trust a government that allows national sovereignty to be no longer represented in this Parliament and to be in Lladoners. With the dignity of Spain, Vice President, you don't play games. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Montserrat. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u120	Thank you, President. Your Honor, do not apply to me the Tjerine doctrine, which I am not a girl, although I am Andalusian, and I have learned what has happened in this country in real time. [[Applauds]] And as I was wondering about trust, do you know why you lost the confidence of this House by voting? [[Rumors]] Here is the vote of all Spaniards; voting. [[Protests.-Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u121	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Mr. Martinez-Maillo, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u122	Spanish Constitution, representative democracy. Do you know why they lost confidence? Because they took advantage of the crisis to make an insulting ideological reshuffle against the welfare state and policies of equality, rights, freedoms and the need to redistribute dignity to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You have not yet done a reflection on why you left and lost the confidence of the Spaniards, who are in this House. [[Several Members: No, no]] Do you know why? Because you gave extraordinary confidence to the procedural laws, the Criminal Code and the courts, where you have many cases of corruption because you were building the distrust of Spanish democracy, of the institutions of this country. [[Protests.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u123	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u124	So, ladies and gentlemen, to be perfectly clear, trust lies in this House and also in the rights of equality and in the social policies of this country, which it seems that, having been Minister of Equality, you still do not understand in real time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. - DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, IN SUPPORT OF DON ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT OPINION DOES THE PRESIDENT DESERVE THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00806]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u126	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Beyond the words of sanchism, let's call things by their name, Madam Vice President. Budgets for impunity. That's the game you're playing. And if their budgets are bad - because they are - impunity is much worse. Let's start with the budgets and then talk about impunity. You hit an axe on the middle working class with the 'dyselazo' and with the increase in contributions of 86% of the self-employed, those who tax for the minimum base. From its budget - bad budget - mistrusts Brussels. Its budget has two deficit objectives: one official and one informal. There is like a wink; they declare one, but they do a wink with the other. Its budget has a hole of EUR 10 billion, roughly: 4000 for overestimation of revenue and 6000 for overestimation of the deficit ceiling approved in this House. Their measures threaten our economy when they point to market fragmentation over and over again, as in the case of VTCs. Spain loses every time equality between Spaniards gets hurt. Spain loses every time territorial privileges are offered. Spain loses every time judges are pressured. And Spain loses every time impunity is offered. Have you not noticed, Madam Vice President, that whoever wants to jump the judges so that someone gets out of jail, tomorrow, if he can, will jump the judges so that someone gets into jail? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u129	Thank you, President. Mr. Girauta, don't worry so much. Unlock this House so that we can discuss the budgets and be brave and risk the absolute majority here to back them up. Be brave; let us bring the debate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u130	Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u131	The problem is that you are negotiating that through your own in jails, in unusual palaces - delirious palaces of fugitives -; you have sent your own to agree that with the thugs, a word that here apparently does not like, but which is the one that defines your partners. Look, save us the shame, stop humiliating millions of Spaniards with these deals and please call elections once and for all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u133	Thank you, President. Your question was about the political situation and you did not want to talk about politics, you wanted to talk about power, which are two different things, sometimes they are united and sometimes separate. You represent a new party but with many veterans in politics. An ex-wife of yours has just told you that social democrats lie down and get up ultra-liberal and ultra-right. You seek power, only power, and we are a government that makes politics from power. And you know for what, with the respect of Brussels? Were we better last year? Last year, with a false referendum, with a Parliament in Catalonia legislated against the constitutional order and you supporting a government full of corruption, cutting the rights of the Spaniards, were we better? You say it! [[Applauds]] You say that, you asked me about the political situation. Look, stop losing respect for this House. Stop being afraid of the real budget debate, not with two and a half minutes, with all hours ahead. Let the whole House, which truly represents all the Spaniards, express itself and stop saying nonsense. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON RAFAEL MERINO LÓPEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: CAN THE MINISTER EXPLAIN THE CONTRADITION IN THEIR DECLARATIONS BETWEEN 'REPUGNANCE' AND THE USE OF TARJET IN PROSTIBLES AND 'Guaranteed Success' BY ESTABLISHING A PROSTIBLE TO OBTAIN INFORMATION? [[File number 180/000797]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u135	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mr Rafael Merino López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u136	Mr President, I take it that the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u137	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. You have given, Mr Merino, for reproducing the question and it is a question that is not worthy of this House. [[Rumors]] But I'm going to answer and I'm going to do it very briefly. What is a contradiction is to go through life by giving patriotic cards and the first of change to give a talk to those who blackmail the State, and the Rajoy government contributed to the empowerment of these blackmailers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Merino.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what is unworthy is to spend public money on the Andalusians in the brothel. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u141	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u142	But the most serious thing is the plot of corruption organized by the Socialist Party through the Andalusian government. Ladies and gentlemen, the EUR 30 000 of public money spent on brothels must be joined by the EUR 855 million of ERE fraud to the unemployed in Andalusia. Ladies and gentlemen, what is unworthy is that today there are two national presidents of the Socialist Party, Mr Chaves and Mr Griñán, sitting on the bench of the accused in a court in Andalusia. Ladies and gentlemen, what is unworthy is this corruption plot of the Socialist Party in Andalusia, for which none of you have lost forgiveness to the Andalusians. [[showing a graph]] And what's more, this picture has to be joined by $3.5 billion because last week the judge opened proceedings to investigate all the councils of the Andalusian Government from the year 2000 to 2011. Your Honor, when you take the Seville-Madrid AVE, do you know what you find? A president of the government who plagiarisms and does not resign; a vice president who is investigated by the judge for her management in the council; a spokesman who does not declare property or securities; a foreign minister sanctioned by the National Securities Market Commission; you, what I will tell you, that we are waiting for her to resign; that of the Treasury investigated by the judge for her management in the council; Mr Duque, Minister of Science, also pending his resignation for having made an instrument not to pay taxes, and to this we have to join Mr Huerta, who is no longer a minister because he resigned, and Mrs Montón. [[laughs]] What is unworthy, Minister, is the plot of corruption that you, the Socialist Party, have organized in Andalusia, and you have not once asked the Andalusians for forgiveness. [[Rumors]] With that, together with the irregularities that you have here in the Government of Spain, it gives me the impression that this blue bank will soon become like a solar, which is the best thing that can happen to Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Merino. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, I'm not going into that game because the House doesn't deserve it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u145	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u146	But I will tell you something, the intention of this Government is to continue working on what you have not done for six years; you can come here and raise any issues you want, issues that are certainly not political discussion. We are here, and whenever you all want, we can talk about the disaster that you left, in the field of justice, in digital justice, a disaster that this socialist government has had to stop; also of recovering the rights that you stole from all legal operators, judges, judges, prosecutors, officials of the administration of justice, forensics; a real disaster. If we really want to talk about stopping them from putting obstacles to repealing section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, an article that, among other things, prevents us from investigating environmental crimes, for example, and also, look where, corruption crimes; also to look after groups such as transgender minors; to give satisfaction - if we want to talk about this - to victims who are abandoned after traffic accidents. We are talking about issues that are of interest to citizens, not what is of interest to you right now. We are talking about finding formulas, Your Honor, that allow anyone who dares to take a step forward, for example, in a complaint of corruption to be protected by the State; to stop sexual violence; to work for equality, in the best defense of victims of gender-based violence, to protect minors victims... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL MARIA JESUS BONILLA DOMÍGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DO YOU THINK IT IS SUSTAINABLE TO FOLLOW IN THE CHARGE? [[File number 180/000798]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u148	Question by Mrs María Jesús Bonilla Domínguez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Delgado... [[The microphone doesn't work.-Pause]] Time, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u150	Yeah, yeah, time's off. You're going to have exactly the same time available as everyone who asks the questions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Delgado, do you think it is sustainable to continue as a minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u152	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I don't know what part of the Constitution you don't understand or don't know. Look, in office as Minister of the Government of Spain I support the decision of the President of the Government and also, Your Honor, my determination to continue working for the citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u154	Mrs. Bonilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u155	Thank you. Look, from July 10 to today you have been the protagonist of various intolerable and serious events. You first betrayed Spain by not defending Spanish jurisdiction and sovereignty or Judge Llarena. Then you have repeatedly lied in this House, in the Senate and also in the street with the media. You also - we have all heard it - made some very committed statements to your colleagues of the Supreme, prosecutors and magistrates, in relation to minors. You also participated in a meal accompanied by Commissioner Villarejo and also by Mr Garzón - today disabled by prevarication - in which it was stated that a network of prostitutes had been set up to obtain information and also for extortion of journalists, businessmen and politicians. And to you, who was a prosecutor, it seemed perfect,'success assured'. You have also carried out a series of offensive demonstrations against certain sectors of society. But look, all those details I've commented to you, all those facts, what they reflect is one thing, that you have not been up to it and have not fulfilled your obligation either as a citizen on many occasions either as a prosecutor or as a minister. But look, especially he hasn't done two things. First, he has given no explanation, and then he has taken no responsibility. And I'll explain why. You have not given explanations because you have not had the courage or gallantness to look at the citizens of Spain, at all the representatives of this House, and tell them the truth.Why did you lie? Why didn't you defend sovereignty? Was it a payment to the Independenceists? Why did you lie about your relationship with Villarejo? Why did you lie about the content of those meetings? Why, Minister? Besides, you haven't taken any responsibility either, and I'm going to tell you why. You have not assumed any responsibility because you have no shame. [[Protests]] And don't make the victim, I use the word shame according to the Spanish Royal Academy, shame in the sense of public affront. You are not ashamed that you have lost your dignity to the commission of certain faults. You have lost credibility, creates mistrust, creates fear and confusion among citizens and among their peers. I should have resigned by now, but I tell you today that out of dignity, out of shame, I resign for Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs Bonilla. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you've definitely lost the papers, but definitely. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u158	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u159	What you are doing in recent times with the political debate resembles something that must already be a tradition for you, what happened between 2004 and 2008, when you lost power, and I also remind you that it was a non-successful recipe, gentlemen of the People's Party. When the lack of arguments makes them unbearable, they devote themselves to trivializing politics, to pulling out of the fat brush, even knowing that the interest of the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, is beyond that poor space to which they intend to subject it in every intervention of their own in this House. Their way of doing politics is that of those who have no interest in solving citizens' problems because they have no ideas to improve the life of citizens and seek false debates like this to distract citizens. [[Rumors]] Your Honor, Parliament is for something more than trying to erode a government with arguments such as this that has just emptied absolutely empty of content. Political debate must serve to build a country's future and not to degrade the quality of democracy. Do you want to argue? Let us talk about new forms of data protection that collect digital rights. Do you want to argue? Let's talk about measures to train our judges in gender-based violence. Do you want to argue? Let us legislate on a phenomenon such as disability, which is not a marital status. Do you want to argue? We are discussing the situation of transgender minors. Do you want to argue? We discussed how to recover for Spain a system of universal jurisdiction, which you laminated, which you destroyed and which you are now trying to fix in some way and do not know how. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u160	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA TELECHEA I LOZANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ACTIONS DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED FOR IN THE SACURATION SITUATION OF THE JUDGMENTS WITH THE APPLICATIONS FOR CLAUSES ONLY? [[File number 180/00791]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u161	Question by Mrs Carolina Telechea i Lozano of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u162	Thank you, President. What does the Government intend to do in the face of the saturation of the courts with claims for ground clauses?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u163	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Telechea, first of all let me thank you for raising a question that really interests citizens. I wish I could set an example and we can talk about really important aspects. We are talking about a problem that affects thousands of families and the Government, which is aware of the need for the Spanish justice system to be a genuine public service, is working both in the legislative sphere and in the competence of the ministry to resolve this situation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, the invention of the uniprovincial courts has been a failure. The Court of First Instance number 50 of Barcelona, which centralizes all claims for ground clauses in the province, no longer even sets a date for trial because it is not enough. It is not enough because the People's Party government bet on a model that favored the banks; instead of seeking solutions and courageously dealing with the problem, it chose to judicialize it, because what should have been the bank first to comply with the sentence, pay, repair the victims and then, if it wanted, claim it; but first to pay the bank. In his day, he opted for a model that did not take into account the impact that such a situation would have on the courts; they have managed to saturate them, that the demands are not processed and the banks go away from rositas. But the strongest thing is what happened with the tax ruling. Where has a sentence been seen to paralyze on the grounds that it can have a major social impact? We all know what happened: that someone made a call because the banks are our little friends and this has to stop it anyway. And again we favor the bank to the detriment of the citizen. Where is judicial independence here? I'm going to give you an example because I can't help it. The català process also has a great social impact. Will the Supreme have the same attitude as with the tax ruling? Are you going to paralyze him? What is clear and clear is that the General Council of the Judiciary is more concerned about whether we have yellow ties than about solving the problem. But the suspension of the tax ruling has caused great legal uncertainty that is going to have a negative impact on the economy and a greater collapse in the courts, not to mention the discredit that this court accumulates, as Supreme Justices classify Judge Díez-Picazo's performance as inaccurate and hasty and other associations of judges have requested his resignation. The reality is that banking is the only power capable of altering the execution of a sentence and is scandalous and shameful. What does the government plan to do? We are facing a very important social problem and Esquerra Republicana will present a proposal for a law to solve this problem, to judicialize less and to establish alternative measures to help all citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Telechea, we fully agree with the diagnosis of the situation in which our courts find themselves in order to solve a problem as serious as that of the ground clauses. It is clear that an avalanche of more than 250 000 ordinary civil proceedings following the judgment of the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union has had an impact on the times of the courts' response and has, as you know, created a bottleneck. It is true that the decision to create specialized courts was not properly evaluated because coffee was given to everyone without taking into account the difference between different territories. Again there was an absolute breach of the duty of the exercise in this case of the Government of the People's Party, the Government of Mariano Rajoy. We - with full respect for the powers of the autonomous communities - have taken measures, first of all, to provide relief because we had to present a reinforcement. 150 judges, 120 lawyers from the Administration of Justice have been appointed to strengthen these courts because cases continue to arise. But I think the most interesting thing, the most important thing - because the situation is different for the different territories - is the preventive measures in which the Ministry of Justice is working. In this regard, I can announce that we have taken steps to introduce a series of regulatory reforms with two aims: to encourage the use of the extra-judicial means of resolving such cases and to impose punitive interests and to prevent banks from resorting to judicial proceedings to delay the payment they have to make. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JUAN JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MATARÍ SÁEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: Has she had any use for the Andalucians at her meeting with the Council of ARRANGEMENTS OF THE ANDALUCIA BOARD OF PAST OCTOBER 10? [[File number 180/000799]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u170	He asks now of the deputy Don Juan José Matarí Sáez, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, have you had any use for the Andalusians in your meeting with the Finance Advisor of the Andalusian Junta on October 10th?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Matarí. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, the ministers of this government often meet with councillors and presidents of different political formations who govern in autonomous communities, so it had the same usefulness as the meeting with the Galician councillor or with Mr Feijóo. These are meetings that review the issues of concern to the autonomous community and, among all, we try to address them and provide a satisfactory response. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Matarí.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u175	The truth, Minister, is that I am very pleased with your answer. Look at you, as Finance Advisor of the Andalusian Board, you demanded, and urgently demanded, new autonomous funding. As Minister of Sánchez you have paralysed the reform of autonomous financing. The same is true of Susana Díaz, who with Rajoy in the Moncloa demanded without delay a new multilaterally negotiated financing system and 4 billion for Andalusia, and with Sánchez in the Moncloa applauds that the reform be stalled until 2021, which is negotiated bilaterally and accepts 500 million euros. For you, Mrs Montero, the PSOE is more important than Andalusians, as always. Madam Minister, on 20 March the Parliament of Andalusia, with you as its protagonist, approved the proposal for autonomous financing. On 18 April Rajoy received the President of the Board in Moncloa and agreed to move forward and accelerate work on funding reform. June 1, motion of censure. On 19 July Sánchez says that there is no time for reform, while announcing twenty months of parliamentary term and opening the doors to a bilateral negotiation, which you had always opposed. On July 26 Sánchez and Díaz meet in Moncloa and Susana Díaz abandons all claims: it is more important for her that Sánchez remain in Moncloa than to defend the interests of Andalusians. And on October 10th, at last, you meet effectively with the Finance Advisor, and the Advisor announces 1 billion for Andalusia: the election campaign was already approaching. But on October 13, three days later, already with the Andalusian elections called, you go up the bid, arrive in Seville and announce 2 billion for Andalusia. Mrs. Montero, what are we left with? We know that for you 12 billion is little, that spending on a budget is easy and that you have always said it, although it seems that Chiqui had not found out, but that for you is very easy. Well, 500, 1000 or 2000? How much, Mrs. Montero? It doesn't matter what your answer is because we don't believe it; we only believe it when you announce tax increases, because there you are credible, there you are consistent because it is what you did in Andalusia with Susana Díaz, to fry the Andalusians at taxes, and now with Mr Sánchez you come to the Spanish government to fry the Spaniards at taxes, Mrs Montero. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Matarí. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Matarí, what I am wondering is what the Andalusian Members of the People's Party are doing to allow again and again that every time a member of the People's Party opens his mouth he insults Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Tejerina has done so with the insult to the schoolchildren of Andalusia... [[Protests.-Applause.]] President, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u178	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u179	I ask you, Mr Matarí, where you and the Andalusian Members were when a budget put forward by the People's Party was approved in this Parliament and the third additional provision of the statute of autonomy was not respected. I did not see you denouncing the outrage against Andalusia in this Parliament with that government. [[Applauds.-Mr. Tarno Blanco utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u180	Mr. Tarno!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u181	Mr. Matarí, where were you when the funding model was tortuously applied? [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u182	Wait a minute, Minister. The President is the head of the plenary. Please allow me to serve as President. I don't need help, okay? Mr. Tarno, please don't interrupt the minister. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u183	At least if you interrupt me, don't insult me from the seat. I think I could learn some parliamentary elegance. Mr Matarí, I insist, because it seems extraordinarily important to me. Where were you when a poor funding for Andalusia was being applied torturingly by the People's Party? Where were you when no investment was made that allowed the bidding of the most important work for Andalusia, such as that of Algeciras-Bobadilla? Where were the deputies of the People's Party? Are you going to follow, Andalusian MPs of the People's Party, flouting their political strength every time they lack respect for our land? Will you continue to ridicule the accent of Andalusia, the expressions of Andalusia, every time a member of that autonomous community speaks to all of you? Are you going to do the same job you were doing? So they will continue to go to Andalusia: losing the elections. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GONZALEZ TEROL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, CONSUMPTION AND SOCIAL WELFARE: WHAT IMPACT WILL THE DYESEL SUBJECT HAVE ON CONSUMPTION? [[File number 180/00803]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u185	Question by Mr Antonio González Terol, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since your colleague Teresa Ribera announced last July, with that fantastic phrase, that the diesel had the days counted, we have known a multitude of statements, of matifications, even of balloons probe, but always with a maximum in all of them: that Mr Sánchez will raise taxes to 17 million Spaniards who have a diesel vehicle. We already know that your Government is the greatest exponent of confusion, improvisation and continuous rectification, but we are going to give you a vote of confidence. Minister, in the face of a measure affecting so many millions of Spaniards, has your government foreseen what impact the rise of diesel will have on consumers? Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Terol. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u188	Thank you, President. I would say that no mating, no balloons probe; another thing is that you feed your political discourse about what some headlines claim to look like. Since the first day we have moved the commitment of this Government to the preservation of the environment; from the first day we have created - the president has done so - the Ministry for the Ecological Transition; from the first day we have taken something seriously to which you have not paid any attention in your years of government, as it has been able to promote a policy that is not only good with citizens but also preserves for future generations the whole environment that you can make available to you. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it has always been clear that we want to make progress in this area, including through taxation. It does not want to collect money, but it is a deterrent to these behaviours and to guide industry so that in the future we are also able to make mobility sustainable and not aggressive with the environment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u189	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Terol.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, with your intervention it shows, as always, that the government in the General Budgets cares little about the 17 million users of diesel vehicles; of course, it cares little about the middle class; it cares little about the SMEs or the companies in the automotive sector that they represent - this for the Minister of Finance I think should be something relevant - 10% of the Spanish GDP and that this measure undoubtedly responds to a sectarian and demagogic conception that you have of politics. A policy that only responds, as I say, to party interests and does not take into account that 17 million Spaniards, the users of these diesel vehicles, will pay more than 200 euros a year to fill their deposits. But also 40,000,000 workers of those 17 factories that build 1.4 million diesel vehicles that, by the way, minister - someone who knows something by being an engineer - emit 15% less CO2 - by being diesel - than gasoline. They do not invent the impact on the environment. There are more than 17 million Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen, who are not big fortunes, and who represent 80% of the IRPF's payers. A middle class that has been the main instrument for the growth and improvement of Spain, which you want to suffocate with a rise in taxes. And they're going to suffocate them backed by their political allies in Podemos with taxes, by the way, that far exceed the revenues that are going to generate taxes on higher incomes. You should have studied the effects before you started them. Correct it, Minister. Avoid that more than 17 million Spaniards pay more than 200 euros a year in these diesel vehicles. Avoid thousands of Spanish jobs going to the train station. Avoid, Madam Minister, the destruction of employment. Madam Minister, I will answer what Mr Matari has not been able to answer. Do you know where the People's Party was during this entire parliamentary term in Andalusia? Creating employment, and now you are going to dedicate yourselves to destroying it. [[Applause.-Rumors.-Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Terol. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u192	Yes, thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, that's why the State General Budgets sent the investments elsewhere, isn't it, Your Honor? ; elsewhere other than Andalusia. [[rumors]] You have never thought of Andalusia. You know why? Because you think that punishing Andalusia is good for your electoral interests; it is what you have always thought and have been wrong for forty years in Andalusia; and you will continue to do so, Your Honor, believe me, I say, you will continue to do so, because you cannot practice burnt land policies. [[applause]] But if you want us to keep talking about Andalusia, we can keep talking... [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yeah, 'kiss','myarm', or honey...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u193	Mr Hernando, please do not enter into dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u194	...or honey. The expressions, Mr Hernando, 'chiqui','myarma', affection or heart, are the expressions that we gala carry the Andalusians in our colloquial dialogue. That's it! That's it! [[Applauds.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u195	Mr. Hernando!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u196	If not, pass through Andalusia that perhaps learns something, Your Honor! Let's get to the question. You have never cared for anything at all about the more than 45 million Spaniards and Spaniards, because you have legislated with the budgets against most Spaniards, against the workers, against the middle class, protecting the interests that you defend, Your Honor, which have always been the interests of... [[Applause. - Several Members say words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Rumors and Protests]] I'd beg you to calm down a bit. I know that the plenary is being very long, but I would ask you for a little calm in this control session. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ISABEL CAPEZAS REGAÑO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHEN CAN YOU DISCOVER ANDALUCES AND EXTREMES FROM THE DISSEMINATION OF NATIONAL 432? [[File number 180/000800]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u198	Questions to the Minister for Development. Question by Mrs Isabel Cabezas Regaño, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u199	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, when will Andalusians and extremists be able to enjoy the unfolding of the national 432? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cabezas. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u201	Thank you, President. Your Honor, from the Ministry of Development we are carrying out the informative studies that will enable the conversion of the national road 432 in the future A-81 with the aim that citizens can enjoy it as soon as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u202	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Cabezas.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u203	Mr Ábalos, the Andalusian socialist government, together with the former socialist minister, Rosa Aguilar, blocked this important infrastructure for my province, Córdoba, between 2008 and 2011. That's insulting the Andalusians. The Socialist Assembly of Andalusia imposed 34 000 hectares on the province of Cordoba, of which 22 000 correspond to my region, to my people, Fuente Obejuna, which is why the information studies that were carried out at the time were unfavourable, right, Mr Ábalos?, and a socialist government kept them in a drawer. Are you going to follow in that dynamic of looking elsewhere? Because, minister, you were walking through Cordoba recently and you didn't say or do anything. Engage here today with the extremists, with the Cordobas, and tell us that in sensitive areas, in those protected areas, there is no impediment to the future motorway. It is true that you said that studies have begun, and so did the sub-delegation of the Government of Córdoba yesterday, but knowing that this Member of the People's Party asked you this question today. If so, we are happy, but I will tell you that, if the studies have started, it was thanks to a People's Party government, that the 2018 budgets were approved and a heading was included to start the studies. The whole socialist bench voted against, the Andalusians voted against, the extremists voted against the budgets, and voted against the highway. [[Pointing with the index finger]] That must be remembered, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] If you have rectified, we are very happy, because this route, besides being very important for Andalusia and Extremadura, is the main access road to El Cabril. Therefore, also for national nuclear safety we have to see the A-81 carried out as soon as possible in my province. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cabezas. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to wish the four injured by the accident that took place this very morning on this road, for a frontal shock, their prompt and favourable restoration, although one of them is very serious. Madam Member, as you say, I have been walking through your land - the Socialists have walked and you are traveling working, as we know - and I said this myself, that the information studies were in progress and had been awarded on 18 September. I don't know if he got it right or not. Looks like they found out yesterday and they think it's because of your question. Well, no. If you'd known a little bit better than I said on your land, since I was there myself, I'd know. I'm going to tell you something because I'm surprised at your intervention. I am enormously surprised that in seven years of his party's government it has not occurred to him to ask for this, and four months from this government he is proposing it. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] It is surprising after having approved those budgets. Do you know how much they have devoted these budgets, which some Member has applauded without any idea? 1,675,000 euros. They dedicated 1,675,000 euros to this road project! This is a joke; this is a joke question. But look, I'm going to tell you through sections: in the Badajoz-Zafra-Espiel section, based on the informative study that began in 2005, with the socialist government, the then Ministry of the Environment, in 2009, the socialist government commissioned the study of new alternatives to complete the environmental impact study. In 2010 we submitted this study, Socialist Government, to public information. You arrived, and in December 2012, the People's Party government allowed the environmental assessment file to expire. [[Applauds]] And it has had to pass the time until we have arrived again now to resume the informative study. So, it's a joke question. It's just when you've ruled you've let the file expire! And it is now, from September 2018, when we have resumed this project. So I have to tell you that unfortunately we have done more in four months for this project than you have in seven years. And in these seven years it has not occurred to you to ask anything... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u206	Thank you very much, Minister, your time is up. - OF THE GIRL YOLANDA Díaz Perez of the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European United States of America (CGE) can, in common, express to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security: what measures will the Government take to fulfil its commitment to remove the most vulnerable aspects of labour reform? [[File number 180/00792]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u207	Question by Mrs Yolanda Díaz Pérez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u208	Are they going to repeal the most regressive aspects of labour reform?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Díaz, as you know, the Government has included in the agreement reached with its parliamentary group on 11 October, various measures aimed precisely at repealing the most damaging aspects of the 2012 Labour Reform of the People's Party. In particular, we have an agreement to extend the non-expiration of the collective agreement to the end of its term; also to review the causes and procedure for the substantial modification of working conditions; to strengthen the obligation to expressly record working hours in the part-time contract; and also to reduce the duality between indefinite and temporary workers, and the instability and turnover of work, with measures such as delinking the contract of work or service determined from the performance of jobs or tasks in the framework of contracts, subcontracts or administrative concessions. All these and other issues, which we now want to comment on, are being discussed in the Social Dialogue Bureau, and I trust they will have the support of the social partners in view of their subsequent parliamentary process. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u212	Minister, the Confederal Group is pleased - as you know - with the agreement reached on budgets, as it represents a great advance for the workers of this country, but it is true that the problems persist. The fundamental problem is called labour reform; a labour reform that has used the crisis as an alibi to practice emergency labour legislation used against workers in this country and that has also led to the dismantling of labour law, as we have known. I wanted to point out one aspect that has been left out of the agreement, for example, Article 84.2, which says that the corporate agreement or the sector agreement prevails while maintaining three very strong consequences for current work. The first of these, Minister, is that the price of labour has been devalued; that is, labour costs in our country have been reduced. The second is that trade union action has ended, i.e. it has weakened collective bargaining. We could say that today, Minister, social dialogue, in fact, is a genuine business monologue that imposes and disposes of the lives of workers. And, thirdly, it serves to further insecure, if necessary, labour relations. This prevalence particularly affects the 'kelis', the workers of multi-service companies or, for example, the workers who care for our elderly. I mean, let's say it's a classic, fundamentally anti-union labor reform. But not only that, Minister, but also the disengagement clauses and ultra-activity is relevant for it to be changed once and for all in our country. Madam Minister, we ask you a question, and it is whether the government is going to return sovereignty to collective bargaining, that is, whether we are going to let the negotiators say how and where, Madam Minister, because six years of labour reform have passed, because we have had five years of economic growth and because the time has come to tell the people's emergency legislation already out, because we want a Spain with the workers within which they make the possible change. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u213	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u214	Mrs Díaz, I fully share the diagnosis that you have made of the harmful effects of the 2012 labour reform, not only on the labour market and on the working conditions of workers in this country, but also that you have had very damaging effects on the General Treasury of Social Security, because the precarious labour relations and wage devaluation have also led to a devaluation of contributions which have also caused the public pension system to suffer. I would like to point out to you that, of course, in the Social Dialogue Bureau, which I hope is not a monologue because there are also UGT and the Workers' Committees sitting there, the Government of Spain - saying what it has to say -, the CEO and Cepyme, we are working on all the issues that have been the subject of agreement, but also, apart from the ultraactivity that you were commenting on, on the whole subject of subcontracting, which is certainly under discussion in this House, now in paper, the reform of Article 42. The study of the primacy of the industry convention vis-à-vis the enterprise convention is also being discussed and the possibility of disengagement in exceptional circumstances. - All this is being analyzed. In addition, work is under way on article 34 of the Workers' Statute, the daily working register, which is absolutely essential to avoid excesses in terms of violating the legally established working day, either in part-time or full-time contracts, and that overtime, if made, is paid and assessed for, because in these cases, overtime is... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u215	Your time is up, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE SECOND GONZALEZ GARCÍA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATIONS AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT HAVE THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO DO TO ACHIEVE WITH THE PHONOMINUM OF THE BEAUTY IN FRAUD THAT SUPPORTS WORK? [[File number 180/000793]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u216	Question by Mr Segundo González García, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u217	What is the Government planning to do to put an end to the fraudulent scholarships that replace jobs?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u218	Thank you very much, Mr González. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gonzalez, the Government is working on various measures to reverse the precariousness that has been generated in a unique way in the youth of our country in these years of crisis management. Our commitment is to eradicate the use of interns for ordinary jobs, and we want to end the fraudulent use of interns. For this we are acting in various areas, for example in the field of Labour Inspection and Social Security by detecting, correcting and sanctioning in their case the situation of false fellows. With regard to recruitment and employment promotion, the Government is also working on the implementation of a clash plan for the creation of young jobs in which, on the one hand, relay contracts and practices are to be reviewed and promoted. New tools for active youth employment policies will also be put in place, a new regulation of non-work practices and fellowship programmes will be developed, the status of the fellow will be created and, of course, extracurricular practices will be eliminated. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u220	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u221	Mrs Valerio, this is a Workers' Statute. [[Show it.]] I understand that you will know him well, but I have to tell you that there are thousands of young workers in this country who have not yet had the opportunity to know him, even though they have been working for years. We are talking about fellows, workers who have been working through scholarships for years, fake self-employed and many people who are now outside the framework of the Workers' Statute. In particular, fraud scholarships consist of the use by companies - as you will know - of supposedly training practices to replace jobs. Far from serving the training purpose for which they are intended, the poor regulation that currently exists allows many companies to take advantage of this vacuum to have young workers qualified at zero cost and at the expense of their labour rights, as well as favouring the downward pressure on the conditions of the rest of the workers within a company. If we allow it, these young workers will end up enlarging the pockets of poverty by not generating rights that allow them to receive unemployment benefits or contributions for the future. If we do not avoid it, Mrs Valerio, young people without a home and without a decent job today will end up being the elderly without a pension tomorrow. In July 2017, together with several collectives and trade unions, we presented a proposal for a law, here in Congress, to end scholarships in fraud and to promote a regulation of practices through the status of the fellow. In November 2017, the adoption of this law was approved here in Congress, but since then it has been blocked in the process of amendments by the thirty extensions of time requested by the People's Party and citizens. The president, Pedro Sánchez, in his previous appearance here to explain his plan of government said he was committed to promoting a status of the fellow and to ending extracurricular practices, just what our bill says and what you have just stated. What we do not understand, then, is why both your parliamentary group and the government have been taking us for months to deal with this issue and finally to end this phenomenon of fraud. Minister, I ask you to commit yourself right here to work with us to get it through. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u222	Thank you very much, Mr González. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u223	Mr González, of course the Government and the parliamentary group are committed. In fact, the PSOE voted in favour of taking that rule into account, and what I know is that yesterday there was an extension number thirty in terms of the deadline for tabling amendments, so we are in favour of that being pushed forward, and in the meantime we will continue to work. Do you know, as I told you before, that since the Labour Inspectorate, the Master Plan for a Dignified Work 2018-2020 is being taken very seriously, so that the situation of the workers who are under the figure of the false scholarship can be regulated. There are also many young people who are being used as self-sustaining fakes. Therefore, you know that the Labour Inspectorate is placing special emphasis on this issue. We want if a person is an intern, to be a real intern and not a self-employed person like a pine tree glass, but who is being misused to do a job in which he should have a contract of employment, not even sometimes in practice, because sometimes there are also people who are made contracts in practice - that is why we must also turn the contract in practice - who, however, have professional experience. So, we're also with the Youth Employment Plan. In short... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONATE ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ RODRIGUEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATIONS AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RECOGNIZE THE RIGHT TO THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE VIUDED PENSION TO 60% OF THE REGULATORY BASIS IN THE TERMS CONCERNED IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS LAW OF THE STATE FOR 2018 TO ALL PENSIONIST PERSONS SEEN TO COMPLETE THE REQUIREMENT FOR INCREASES? [[File number 180/000794]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u225	Question by the Member, Mr Alberto Rodríguez Rodríguez, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u226	What will the Government do to ensure that the increase in widow's pensions reaches all the persons to whom they are entitled?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, the Government is going to comply with the law, will comply with the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, will respect the additional number 30 of Law 27/2011, is already respecting the Law on General Budgets of the State, which establishes that the regulatory basis of the widow's pension is raised from 52 to 56 per cent for persons, mostly women, widows of sixty-five years without any other type of benefit and with an income limit, which from January 1, 2019 will be 60 per cent, and of course the Government will ensure that the law is complied with. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u229	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u230	Recapitulating, as you well know, like me, a law was passed in 2011 that required the rise of 60% of the regulatory base causing, that is, of the contributory base of the person who dies. This law was worded as follows: It will be carried out progressively and homogeneously within eight years from 1 January 2012. What happened? What did the People's Party do? Obviously, what he does always and in what he is expert at: breaking the law and stealing, stealing the rise of hundreds of thousands of widowers in this country, mostly women, blocking the percentage of the regulatory base by 52%. We had to wait until this year when millions of women and pensioners on the streets took away from the Government that rise which, I repeat, corresponded to them by law; it was already in the law and all they had to do was comply with it. It seemed simple, it was only necessary to proceed to the ascent of office and it was already there. No, it turns out that on 20 July the Government of the Socialist Party adopted a rule in the Council of Ministers with several cases in which this increase has to be requested; it has to be requested by pensioners and, if they do not do so within the right time, they will lose part of that right and they will lose money, money that for many families in this country makes the difference between arriving or not arriving at the end of the month. This is the form. [[Show it.]] They have two ways to do this: women over the age of sixty-five, because they are mostly women, take this form to the nearest Social Security office or do so via the Internet. Given the reality we are talking about, the difficulties of movement and the difficulties of access to the Internet of all these women, we find this measure completely unjustifiable. What do we sue? For something that seems to us to be of complete common sense, that this should be done on its own initiative, that should be done automatically and that the widow's pension should be raised to all the pensioners of this country that they are entitled to, who for that reason won it well in the streets fighting. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u232	Mr Rodríguez, without acrid, but it is that this recognition is being made ex officio from the very beginning. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, it's being done by Social Security on its own initiative. [[The Queen Spain: In the budgets of the People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u233	Madam Spain, I beg you, please, silence. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u234	This recognition is being made ex officio. There was already someone there who said no and expressly drew a note from the INSS in the Basque Country clarifying that it is being recognised on its own initiative and next year, from 1 January, it will also be recognised on its own initiative. [[Rumors]] Yeah. If a person is to have access to the pension for the first time, he or she has to apply for a widow's pension, but the issue of eligibility for this increase in the regulatory base is being made on his or her own initiative by the National Social Security Institute. I have seen that Mrs. Spain Queen has been a little angry and says that in 2018. This law should have started on January 1, 2012, to reach 60% on January 1, 2019. [[Applauds]] The People's Party has been suspending its entry into force year by year, but it did not suspend it in 2017 and began to dizzy the loser with a decree that never came to where it had to go, which was to be approved by the Council of Ministers. The Government of Pedro Sánchez had to adopt it this summer in the Council of Ministers for that rule to enter into force. [[Applauds.-Mrs.Spain Queen: No, in the budgets]] Persons who are entitled to this benefit increase are already receiving it since August. Don't worry because I guarantee you this is being recognized on your own. Thank you very much. [[applause.-Lady Spain Queen: In the budgets of the People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO ROLDÁN MONÉS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF WORK, MIGRATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE EVOLUTION OF EMPLOYMENT IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00807]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u236	Question now by Mr Antonio Roldán Monés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u237	Thank you, President. Minister, there are more than 3 million self-employed people in our country who stand up every day to take their business forward, who have suffered as much or more than the rest of our country's workers and who, in addition, are the ones who create one out of every three jobs in our country. Why are you and your Government against the self-governing?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u239	Either I did not know correctly, Mr President, or the question was: what is the Government's assessment of employment developments in Spain? Is this right, President?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u240	Yeah. You now have the power not to answer the question if you do not want to answer it. It is true that there has been a variation and therefore if you want to answer you can answer, but if you do not want to answer do not answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u241	I will respond to what the Citizens' Group, Mr Roldán in particular, has asked me. Look, the data show - within some month of the year in which as unemployment data have quite to do with the seasons of the year there has been some negative data - overall a positive trend in the evolution of employment in Spain, both in terms of reducing unemployment, where the downward trend continues, and in terms of improving the quality of employment, with a consolidated trend towards increasing indefinite recruitment. Of course, the Government is not only concerned but is busy seeking a solution to the fat problem of 3,200,000 people who are unemployed and seeking employment in this country and, of course, is also concerned about the 3,200,000 self-employed; don't worry, we are also concerned about them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u243	I see that the minister has little interest in talking about the self-employed. No wonder. You went out with your government colleagues, with Mr. Iglesias, saying that you were not going to raise taxes to the middle and working class in this country. The next day we discovered that in their accounts there is a rise in diesel that affects 14 million people and in addition there is an increase in the minimum contributions to 1,700,000 people, self-employed. Not content with that, you decide, when we denounce it and the associations, that in the end you are not going to raise the minimum contributions to the self-employed with the rise of the SMI, but surprisingly, Mrs Valerio, then you send an account to Brussels, the Fake budgets, and there are a billion that you plan to take out of the pocket of the self-employed in this country. Who are you trying to fool, Mrs. Valerio? The last thing that comes out this morning, to everyone's surprise, is that you - not only you, but also the President of the Government, on Mr Rivera's question - were actually lying. [[Show a picture]] The minimum quotas are going to be raised in the end, and it seems that not only the minimum quotas, but also the rest of the autonomous in this country. We have made a very simple and clear proposal with two points: the first, Mrs Valerio, is that the contribution of the self-employed does not go up a single euro; the second is that the self-employed who charge below the SMI do not pay above the flat rate, that they pay a fee of 50 euros. Can the Minister please answer whether or not she will meet these two requirements? Are you going to raise taxes to the self-employed, yes or no? Are you going to keep the flat rate you promised for those who win below the SMI? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u245	Your Honor, you are pertinent in your decision not to comply with the question you have asked this minister. I would ask you to respect self-government organisations, as you are so concerned about them. Yesterday there was a first meeting with all self-employed associations, a meeting of ATA, UPTA, Uatae and the self-employed of CEOE-Cepyme in the Ministry of Labour with the Secretary of State for Employment and the Secretary of State for Social Security, to work on the contribution to the special scheme for self-employed workers. There is a proposal on the table and they have to study it and they are going to make proposals to that Government document. I'd ask you to be respectful. Of course, self-employed people who receive income below the minimum interprofessional wage will not continue to pay 300 euros a month, that goes ahead. Of course, contributions will have to be adjusted to actual income. That's on the table. There must also be talk of increasing the protective action, which is in line with the increase, if any, and in what percentage, of contributions. The Government is also engaged in ensuring that there is more quality employment and employment, eliminating the gender pay gap between men and women, an ambitious plan for youth work and gradually eliminating job insecurity. We have launched the Master Plan for a Dignified Work 2018-2020, which...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE DEPARTMENT OF JAVIER CALVENT GALLEGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN HAVE DECLARED THE EMERGENCY AND COMMITMENT OF IMMEDIATELY THE WORKS OF REMOVAL OF THE STEP AND RENEWAL OF THE REST OF THE SUPPLY NETWORK AT THE HIGH OF THE CONDATION TRADE IN JANUARY'S PROVINCE? [[File number 180/00801]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u247	Question by Mr Calvente Gallego, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, from last July 13th to August 8th of this year, that is, for twenty-five days, the population nuclei of the county of El Condado de la province of Jaén, such as Montizón, Aldeahermosa, Venta de los Santos, Chiclana de Segura, El Campillo, Camporredondo, Los Mochuelos, Santisteban del Puerto, Navas de San Juan, Castellar, Sorihuela del Guadalimar, Arquillos and El Porrosillo were on health alert when they declared themselves unfit for human consumption the water of the thirteen indicated population nuclei, where they live around twenty thousand people, by detecting a concentration higher than the limits of trihalomethane, a potentially carcinogenic chemical compound according to medical science. For all of the above, I ask you the following question: Does the Government of Spain plan to declare urgent and immediately undertake the renovation of the drinking water treatment station and the renovation of the rest of the high-supply network of the El Condado region in the province of Jaén? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvente. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u250	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. Allow me to share my first three seconds with you the emotion, pain and respect for the news of the death of Carmen Alborch, who was a member of this house. [[Applauds]] With regard to the question your honor asks me, yes, we intend to answer this problem and the water supply cuts suffered by the neighbors of the county of El Condado this summer. No one deserves this situation and we believe that it is essential to provide an urgent solution that guarantees such a basic right as access to safe drinking water in optimal conditions of health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u251	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Calvente.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u252	Madam Minister, I am glad that in the 21st century we share that we cannot accept or accept that almost 20,000 people for 25 days cannot consume drinking water because they are not fit for human consumption, that is, because they are contaminated and have a carcinogenic component. Madam Minister, I am glad that the inoperation and ineptness of the socialist government do not condemn a whole region of the province of Jaén, El Condado, to oblivion and ostracism. Madam Minister, I am glad that you and the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez have realized that the project that President Rajoy's Government had planned for Andalusia and the province of Jaén could not be halted or slowed down. Madam Minister, I would like you and the socialist government you belong to to to work for my land not only in this project but in all with the same determination, with the same strength and intensity as the People's Party Government, the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Madam Minister, we do not really want tankers in the municipalities of El Condado, but we claim the drinking and quality water in each and every one of them. That is why I am glad that you accept our proposal. Therefore, Minister, implement this budget line and comply with what you have committed to in the county of El Condado: guaranteeing your right and establishing clean and quality water now and forever. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvente. I give the floor to the Minister for the Ecological Transition.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to do this much more thoroughly, because the reality is that, like Mr Ábalos, I am drawn to the attention that you raise this question after seven years of having paralysed the investment to solve the supply problems in the county of El Condado. More than EUR 20 million has been included in the State General Budgets in the last three years for this plan, under the heading of the Guadalquivir Hydrographic Confederation, which has not been implemented. In 2011, the integrated actions for the renovation of the hydraulic infrastructure of the El Condado system that contemplated the Active Jaén Plan, which had been implemented until then and which, however, ceased to be implemented, were paralyzed. Since that date, the main problem has not been addressed, which is the integral replacement of the outstanding pipes of fibrocement, as envisaged in the plan for the sake of the health of the water. County would have earned another kind of attitude, but we're working on it. We are finalising an agreement between the Member State and the Water Confederation for the improvement of the ETAP and the renewal of the rest of the supply network, and some issues remain with regard to the impact of investment in disadvantaged areas - such as this - to limit cost recovery. The project has a minimum bid budget of €9.5 million and an implementation period of 18 months. Upon completion of the proceedings and subject to public information, this agreement shall be signed and the opening of the tender for works shall be considered immediately. The neighbors of El Condado - in this we agree - not only deserve it, but I trust they have good news very soon. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u255	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN LUCIA MARTÍN GONZALEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, CAN WE COMMUNISH TO MAKE THE GOVERNMENT FORM: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO AMEND THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK TO CLEAR THAT THE CONSTITUTION COSTS OF HYPOTECA HAVE TO PAY THE BANK? [[File number 180/00808]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u256	Questions now to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise. Question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u257	Thank you, President. Minister, does the government intend to modify the legal framework for the bank to pay mortgages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u258	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u259	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Martin. As you know, the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court has decided to submit to the Plenary of the High Court the final decision on the doctrine relating to the payment of certain taxes linked to the signing of mortgage loans. It is clear that the resolution will be adopted at the plenary session that is scheduled for 5 November, and for that reason, in this context, the Government believes that it is prudent to wait for the Supreme Court to rule before assessing whether a decision is necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Martin.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u261	The rectification of the Supreme Court is a historic scandal that once again challenges the legitimacy of the entire judicial system. It has already passed before with sentences like that of La Manada or it happens every day - the Catalan social leaders and political leaders continue in provisional prison - but if on November 5th the Plenary of the Supreme decided definitely not to respect the original sentence, it would be evident that in this country justice ends where the power of the bank begins. After a decade in which we have suffered more than 600 000 evictions, the preferential scam, the ground clauses, a rescue of 60 billion euros that we are not going to recover, appears Judge Díez-Picazo - who until a year ago, coincidences of life, taught at a university college owned by the bank - and decides that the Supreme's sentence must be reviewed. This is a real shame. It seems to us positive that some of the ministers express, as has happened, their discomfort, but it is that you are the government and you must do much more; above all I say this because the draft law on real estate credit is being dealt with right now in this House, and you are sure that you know that our group has tabled several amendments to this draft law to approve the bill in payment, to ensure the relocation in evictions without alternative, and that none of those amendments have so far obtained the support of your group, of the Socialist Group. But what is particularly difficult is to see that, despite these ill-beings they have expressed, they are also not supporting the amendments to make it clear that the law and the regulation should take charge of these taxes is the bank. And that has very easy solution, Minister: compromise now and here to reform the regulation, which is entirely up to the government, so that the mortgage taxes will be paid by the banks. It is his decision; the Government is with the citizenry or with the banks, there is no average possible way. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u262	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. As I have pointed out, the Government is analysing the implications of this judgment for citizens, the financial sector and the public purses. Let me tell you that it can be very attractive and easy to counterbalance the interests of citizens and banks, but this is an extremely sensitive area from many points of view. It is extremely important for our citizens, because for most of them the decision to buy a house is probably the most important, legal and economic, that they will adopt in their lifetime, but it is also very important for the financial sector of this country, given the importance of the mortgage market, and also for the public coffers, why not say so. That is to say, this is an area in which we must be extremely cautious. It's my first idea. Secondly, you refer to a judgment, but, as you know very well, there has been a change in the persistent interpretation of the Supreme Court for decades; an interpretation that had been embodied in the applicable regulations, both the law and the regulations. That is why it is very important to wait to see what the Supreme Court finally decides and, in the meantime, prudence is imposed - I use this word again - and given the importance of the issue, given the sensitivity of the matter, since of course from the Government we will have absolute respect for the decisions taken by the Supreme Court, what we will do at this time is to analyze the decision taken by the Supreme Court and act accordingly, which we believe is responsible and what corresponds to such a complex issue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u264	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO PRADAS TORRES, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, CONSUMPTION AND SOCIAL WELFARE: THE GOVERNMENT, IN COLLABORATION WITH THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES, TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF DISEASES AND DISEASES OF DIABETS? [[File number 180/00804]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u265	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare. Question by Mr Antonio Pradas Torres, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u266	Thank you, President. Minister, you know better than anyone, because you denounced him as a deputy and senator, that the former People's Party government did a great deal of damage to the Spanish health system. Just taking over the government, he established the pharmaceutical co-op for pensioners, ended the universality of health care, cut the service portfolio and limited medication and treatment to chronically ill people. While the People's Party Government carried out these cuts valued at around EUR 20 billion, from an investment of 6.5 million to 5.8 million in gross domestic product, the socialist governments of some autonomous communities were putting up with the efforts of the professionals a health system that had previously been an example throughout Europe and the world. One of the groups most affected by the cuts in health programmes was precisely diabetics. In Andalusia - since the Members of the People's Party do not speak well about Andalusia, I am going to do so - however - I would like Mrs Tejerina to have listened to it - not only did the children continue to have free textbooks or school transport so that the rural environment would not be depopulated, but they also benefited during years of stem cell research and have been enjoying the flash system and insulin pumps for months, saving six or eight daily punctures. Madam Minister, I know that the new socialist government has as a priority to give back to the Spaniards the rights that the People's Party has taken away from it under the pretext of the crisis, so it decided to return immediately universality to the health system, so the new budgets - which are blocking the People's Party and the right - gradually take back the pensioners so that they do not have to co-pay and we know that the sick who have to pay at the moment for moving in ambulance will not have to pay. Recently the ministry has reached an agreement with the communities to carry out these measures that are being implemented in Andalusia and the rest of Spain. I had the temptation, when I saw Mr Merino's stage, to bring a sketch with the corruption of the PP, but there is no printer so big to do it in this House, so I ratify the question I had asked. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Pradas. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, I believe that it is necessary at this time to recognize the effort of the Autonomous Communities, which is expressed in the percentage of their budgets allocated to the welfare state. Before the crisis and before the arrival of the Government of the People's Party, 68 per cent of the expenditure of the autonomous community was allocated to policies that make up the welfare state, and after this step and after the cuts they were required to contribute 75 per cent. This is fair to recognize to the autonomous communities, which maintained the welfare state despite cuts in both rights and resources. Indeed, diabetes is a disease that requires life-long care, especially type 1 diabetes, which, in addition to the punctures of treatment, requires regular checks, up to six punctures a day. It is also fair to recognize that health is one of the sectors most likely to improve with research and with the return of this research to the National Health System through innovation. The result of this is the percutaneous control systems - the flashes, to understand us - of the glycemias, which avoid up to six punctures a day. It is very important that this be incorporated into the service portfolio, because if it did not mean that some would have to pay and would not be able to access it. However, at the age of eighteen the patient leaves the service portfolio and it is our will to incorporate also adults in order, in addition to treating them correctly, to improve their living conditions, their quality of life. Therefore, we will continue to make progress in research, we will continue to make progress in improving the living conditions of diabetics - a disease that is for life and that has that capacity for innovation - stimulating biomedical research and we will continue to incorporate these measures into the portfolio services, in this case also for adults who are included in the conditions and protocols that... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u269	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE FELIPE JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, CONSUMPTION AND SOCIAL WELFARE: WHAT MEASURES WILL YOU TAKE THE GOVERNMENT, IN COLLABORATION WITH THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES, TO IMPROVE THE LIVING CONDITIONS OF DEPENDENT PERSONS? [[File number 180/00805]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u270	Question by Mr Felipe Jesús Sicilia Alferez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u271	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, my first words on behalf of the whole Socialist Group are to show our pain and sympathy for the passing of our colleague and great socialist, Carmen Alborch. From here our grief for his family and his friends, a grief that is that of the whole socialist family. [[Applauds]] Socialists like Carmen Alborch fought and fought for citizens' rights, rights such as that contained in the Dependency Act, a law that the People's Party in its seven years of government has tried to crush. With the PP government we have seen how the services provided by this law have been reduced, how aid was reduced, and how the co-payment was raised to the families of dependents. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, who approved all these cuts? The Secretary of State for Social Services at that time and today candidate for the Andalusian Assembly for the People's Party, Mr Moreno Bonilla. It was Mr Moreno Bonilla who decided to delay the attention to moderate dependents for three years. It was Mr Moreno Bonilla who decided to stop paying Social Security to the family members who cared for their dependents and, in addition, reduced their pay -65 000 affected in my land, in Andalusia - and it was Mr Moreno Bonilla who made what Mr Rajoy already promised in that famous interview in which he said: dependence is not viable. The lords of the People's Party never believed in dependence. For this reason, during the PP's government the dependency system has lost 2865 million euros and 730 euros corresponded to Andalusia. Ladies and gentlemen, with EUR 730 million in dependency in Andalusia, 105 000 dependent Andalusians could have been cared for and 25 000 direct jobs created. Fortunately this is going to change, Minister, because we already know the commitment of President Pedro Sánchez and yourself to increase the dependent budget by more than 40%. We want to know how this will improve the lives of dependents and how it will influence the autonomous communities such as Andalusia to continue to support the Dependency Act. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u272	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. On December 14th, twelve years after the adoption of the so-called Dependency Act in these General Courts have passed. This represented an important reinforcement for the fourth pillar of the welfare state, of social services, and an increase in the quality of life of people who lacked personal autonomy. Interestingly, starting with the implementation of the law, starting in 2007, it is when the turning point in poverty among the elderly occurs. These measures, together with others, led the elderly, who were the most at risk of poverty, to become the group, in relative terms, at least at risk of poverty from 2006. It is therefore a very important measure for the living conditions of the elderly. In addition to this, the incorporation of the Dependency Act implies an average generation of employment - for every million people assigned to the unit, 36 jobs are created - and a return to the economy - because they are active in the workforce, the social services sector is consolidated and professionalized - of 40 per cent. Therefore, there are many contributions to the quality of life of society as a whole, not just of dependents. Unfortunately, the law was cut short and its application slowed down and, therefore, the inclusion of more people. There have been a million people already included in the system, but we still have a waiting list or limbo of people who have recognized the right, but who do not have the benefit of around 300 000. That is why we want to make an effort, to recover the agreed level, to increase the minimum level and to recover the contribution of caregivers who care for their dependent family members. I would ask you in this House to support the budgets, so that the initial meaning of the Dependence Act can be recovered with all these values in employment, in consolidating the social services system and in economic return to the public arks and, therefore, in economic improvement in society as a whole. Besides, it's a job that's not displaceable... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u274	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u275	We then proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First of all, urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí, on the need to apply the gratuitousness of the AP-7 and to ensure the construction of the sections that guarantee the connection with neighbouring peoples. For your defence, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to make my first words personal. First of all, as a Valencian, I regret the death of Carmen Alborch, who when I was mayor of Sweden had a very nice gesture with me that I will always keep. Secondly, allow me, Mr Ábalos, to show you my full understanding of your speech yesterday in the Senate. I believe that when politics is too busy, we are not providing the service that we must provide to the citizens and that everything is not worth it in politics. [[Applauds]] And now to my thing. Let me start with three questions that I would like you to answer with three yeses like three suns. First question: At the end of 2019 the AP-7 is going to be totally free, i.e. unequivocally free? I mean, aren't citizens going to pay absolutely nothing to either a dealer or any public enterprise for free circulation through AP-7? We ask because lately we do not see the same constancy that he had when he appeared on the first day as a minister, when he clearly stated that he would lift the tolls. Valencian citizens would appreciate the clarity. Second question. If you have answered the first question in the affirmative, the second question is: Do you intend to address the connections that the Valencian Public Works Council, led by its party partner María José Salvador, has put to you? I mean, if you're going to look at them in these budgets. Third question. If you answered yes to the first and second questions, it is that you share the reasons that have prompted the Public Works Council to demand these new connections. Do you therefore intend to apply the same measures as provided for in Decree-Law 1110/2018 to motorists and trucks travelling through the AP-7 in the Valencian conflict zones? I mean, are you going to suppress the AP-7 toll on recurring drivers and reduce the toll to 50% on trucks in Valencian sections that have the same problems - danger, congestion and crossing urban cores - as the Catalan road sections? We understand that there are plenty of reasons to answer yes. The average of the state of motorways with tolls does not reach 22.5%; the average of the Valencian Community is 35.5%. This happens in a way like AP-7, which we have been paying for forty-eight years, a lifetime; in which the concession has been extended three times since 1998, when it ended, that is, we have been tipping for twenty years; that it runs from north to south in a territory like ours, the Valencian, which you know is a very long territory and, therefore, is very important to vertebrate it. You know how I, because it is Valencian, that the alternative to the AP-7 in many stretches are the N-340 in the northern regions and the N-332 in the southern regions, that is to say in Valencia and Alicante, that they are congested, the average rate of vehicles per day is more than 25 000 both in one and the other, with high sinestrality; that they concentrate many black spots, for example in the N-340 I say two, Alcalà de Xivert and Alquerías del Niño Perdido; that they pass through populations such as Torreblanca or the Ribera de Cabanes; or the N-332, which is the only road that connects two provincial capitals, more than 90 kilometers, with simple road in both directions without a median, that goes through up to eleven populations, such as Oliva - which is a real problem -, Gata, Favara, Altea, Bellreguard or Palmera. It is therefore necessary to build the new accesses to AP-7 and to make the improvements proposed by the consultancy precisely in order to optimize the network that they form with AP-7 and that has been proposed by the Valencian Government of Botànic. In particular, the new connection to Vinaròs and the improvement of the N-238, the new connection to Benicàssim, Vila-real and the improvement of the N-340; the new connection to Alzira, Oliva, Ondara, Gata or Altea. From Compromís we suggest to you, we propose - in the end, now that you will have time - that you also believe these new accesses, I think they would greatly improve the proposal presented by our consultancy: new connection to Alcalà de Xivert, new connection to Almenara, a link with the N-320 in Sagunt, new connection in Tavernes with the CV-50 and new connection with Calp. We understand that we have given more than enough reason for you to answer the three questions. The first, the gratuitousness of the motorway; the second, new connections for the time when the concession ends; and the third, the removal of tolls to both drivers and the bonus to trucks circulating in the conflict zones of Valencian N-340 or N-332. In addition, it adds up to an indisputable motive that you and I share. We have had a historic series of twenty years of underinvestment in the General Budgets of the State; we do not say that, all sectors of Valencian society say that, his own party has denounced it especially in the last seven years in which the People's Party has made particularly unfair budgets for Valencians and Valencians. Budgets should be used to rebalance the territorial imbalances, and you know the disadvantage situation from which we Valencians start: underfunding and underinvestment for more than twenty years, a per capita income twelve points below the average, and yet you know that we are net contributors to the common fund. That is to say, we are fulfilling the expenses, but unfortunately the State is failing with us with the revenues. I already know that today is a particularly difficult day and, frankly, I would have preferred to do this question next week or the previous week; but, finally, politics continues and we have to do what we have to do. I would therefore be grateful if you would be clear, precise and sincere in your reply because we understand that these are reasonable, necessary and absolutely just proposals. I'm done. In his statements he stated that he was aware of the Valencian aggravation, but that he would have no favor with the Valencians and the Valencians, despite you being a Valencian minister. We agree, completely agree with you, Valencians and Valencians do not want any favors. We only want what you added below: a justice deal so that there is no favour deal with the rest of the autonomous communities. I hope your three answers are, I insist, three yeses like three suns. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u277	Thank you very much. The Minister for Development then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u278	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, my friend Joan... the eyes are had... well, it's not a day, really, right... I appreciate Joan's words... I'm not the one who makes a sound, but anyway... [[Applauds]] I think it leaves us an important person for the Valencians but also for the Spaniards. Thank you also for your solidarity. The three clear answers, Joan - good Member -, let me do them in the reply and so I can create a certain account about this question of AP-7. From the government and I personally, of course, we are aware of the relevant role of the AP-7 motorway to vertebrate and cohesive the territory of the Mediterranean coast. I myself defended it for many years, I remember there for the year 1997 when it was time to finish the concession I claimed non-renewal. I know the question well, perfectly well. It is a highway that since 1971 has been long amortized and has had more extensions than it would logically have had. The last, as I say, was in 1997, a final royal decree that extended the period of the AP-7 sections until 31 December 2019. It is true that the amount of tolls was reduced to stimulate the use of the motorway, but it is no less true that it meant an extension of thirteen years and without this extension it is clear that the AP-7 in the Valencian Community would not be toll-free right now. In this regard, as I have already announced on other occasions, the Ministry of Development does not intend to extend the concessions of motorways whose period ends in this legislature, including the AP-7. Therefore, in the case of the AP-7 between Tarragona and Alicante as from 31 December 2019, infrastructure management is expected to revert to the General State Administration. Of course, we plan to carry out a study on the state of the infrastructure to determine the actions to be carried out by the concessionaire - because this reversal has to be made in conditions - so that the state of conservation prior to its delivery is the appropriate one, so that it is properly handed over to the General Administration of the State. In addition, we have already begun to analyse the actions that are necessary to ensure that the provision of road service on the highway - once it reverts to the State - is carried out in the optimal conditions for users. In the context of these actions, the Ministry of Development will analyse, among other issues, the need to remodel and expand the capacity of existing links or, where appropriate, to establish new links in other locations, given that the highway maintains practically the same connections as in origin and with very remote links. In this regard, as the honourable Member has rightly said, the Government of the Valencian Generalitat sent last July to the Ministry of Development a proposal for improving the connectivity of the AP-7 motorway as it passes through the community. This proposal, on which we intend to work together with the Autonomous Government, is currently being analysed by the technical services of the department. In addition, the Ministry of Development plans the development of two previous studies to analyze the demand for traffic and the need for actions in the two sections of AP-7 motorways that revert to the State in December, that is, Valencia-Alicante and Tarragona-Valencia. The objective of these previous studies is to predict the traffic distribution that will occur in the AP-7 environment road network, once the aforementioned sections revert to the Administration. Thus, in these studies we will analyse: the lack of capacity of some highway links to other highways in the general state network or other networks that may result in the need to reshape existing links or to establish new links in other locations; the lack of structural capacity of the firms to withstand the volume of heavy traffic; the possible need to incorporate additional lanes into the trunk of the highway to maintain an adequate level of service, and the need to install noise protection measures or any other environmental integration measures. In short, the objective of these studies is to determine the actions that will be necessary in the infrastructures to accommodate the demand, which we will also study, evaluating the best alternatives and establishing a programming according to their priority level and budget availability. In addition, the ministry has in writing three projects in which are included improvements of connectivity with the AP-7 motorway of the Valencian Community - these projects are already -; the southern connection of Oliva, which will involve the execution of a new link between the N-332 road and the AP-7 in the municipality; the remodelling of the link in the AP-7 with the N-340 in Oropesa, replacing the current intersection in the N-340 with a link at different level; and the improvement of access from the variant of Benicarló and Vinaròs of the N-340 to the AP-7 motorway. As regards the requests you have made to me about the free toll and the application of bonuses, what I can tell you is as follows. According to the current legislation and the contracting documents for the implementation of the immediate gratuity in the face of the release of the toll on the highway, the concessionary society should be compensated for the restoration of its economic - financial balance, which today is intractable economically. Therefore, we cannot advance the reversal of the concession. However, we plan to discuss jointly with the Generalitat the introduction of bonuses in the AP-7 in sections parallel to roads N-332 and N-340 where the current conditions of movement of these roads recommend the application of these types of measures. Also, since the 2nd of September we have started to apply bonuses, as I have already mentioned, to heavy vehicles in the AP-7, with an obligation to divert between the N-340 between L'Hospitalet de l'Infant and Peñíscola; a measure that we plan to extend to Torreblanca, as requested by the Valencian Government. Now you're offering me other bonuses. We can study them, but the truth is that I need a budget line for it, and the ones that were approved, which basically affected Catalonia, were already budgeted, they were even processed, and the only thing this department that I did was speed up the bonus as much as possible, but I also tell you that we had summer on us and we couldn't make it. We still did, but it was already arranged, agreed, between the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Government of the People's Party. I say that because sometimes it seems not, but that was the agreement, it was agreed. In this case it is true that in that agreement they forgot Castellón. What we're going to do is try to get to Torreblanca, as requested by the Generalitat. I also understand the correctness of his approach, but we would have to value it and incorporate it in some section. To conclude this intervention, I would like to point out, as I have done on other occasions, that we need to agree on a territorially balanced model to ensure that the resources for the maintenance of the road network are sufficient. I have never said total free; in fact, I have said that there is nothing free because everything costs, especially because I am now very worried about an idea, which is security. And safety, for example, in the road field goes through conservation. It is curious, in this country the road network has grown a lot, it has been growing even with the crisis, and yet the conservation and maintenance games have gone down. With what we have budgeted there is nothing to do, but remember that amendments were still introduced in the last budget in the Senate at the expense of road conservation. Therefore, we will have to come up with a sustainability model and take it seriously because we cannot offer something that cannot be. We need to see how we do it and what model we put forward. That is why we have presented through the parliamentary group an initiative to create a subcommission to study sustainability in the high-capacity network and we have to agree on that, because in the end even in those cases where we are asked to transfer, we will also have to consider how they maintain it, and that debate has not been resolved. Every time we take one of these measures, we will have to put forward a sustainability horizon, everything else does not seem rigorous. We are not renewing the concession, we are putting an end to that system. We need to reflect on the whole country. What I have always claimed is that there are no unique territorial treatments, no penalties, no distinctions in the national territory. I also believe in the principle of equality, but between the Spanish and between the territories, and therefore there cannot be penalised territories and liberated territories. We have to look for a model of sustainability because, if not, it does not guarantee us anything, not even good intentions. That is what we are asking for, an agreement, and this morning the infrastructure plan has also been invoked. It could also fit in there, but we have requested this subcommission because we have to agree on what we are talking about. As far as the favor deal is concerned, it would have been good if I had said in Valencia: Take advantage that I am Valencian. I would have triumphed. I said the other thing, and I was also criticized. It's true that here I do whatever I do they're going to criticize me the same way. The other day I was told that since I was born in the Mediterranean I already have a genetic weakness. And what am I going to do? Somewhere I'll have to be born, I say! As long as it's in Spain... [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Let's see if in the end one can't be born anywhere. This is curious. What I think is that I have an obligation with all of Spain. It is true that I was born there, but I could also have been born anywhere else. I do not make any merit of that, it is a circumstance, but it is true that I am also aware that the Valencian Community has not had the appropriate treatment - and in that I agree with Mr Baldoví and I have defended him in this rostrum - with regard to what it brings in this country, only for what it brings and for what it represents. It is the intention of this Government to correct that situation, and that is why we are now working on the next budgets to correct it. That's where we can talk about infrastructure that affects the well-being of Valencians and Valencians. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u280	Thank you very much, Madam President. I too was born in the Mediterranean and I do not consider it a merit, but I must try to ensure that the people living in the Mediterranean live as well as the people living anywhere else in Spain. Let me make you another request first. The mayor of Valencia has asked you for a meeting that you said there would be about the V-21. The Mayor of Valencia has sent a letter to his ministry to see if there is a meeting to see if we can minimize the condition to La Huerta and save an important part of that protected territory, so unique, that we only have just on the shores of the Mediterranean. I would therefore be grateful if you would soon have the desire to meet with the mayor of the city where you live, the mayor of your city. I think you would be very grateful, not only for Valencia but also for the region of l'Horta Nord. Therefore, I hope you will meet soon. Actually, it doesn't leave me alone. I already knew that the momentum of the first day had been lost by landing in the ministry. When you tell me the concession's over, you don't tell me if you're going to lift the barriers. Are you going to lift the barriers? Yes or no? Are you going to get up? Are they taking the tolls off? Will there be a budget to remove tolls in the new General State Budgets? Because you tell me that yes, that you understand it, but that you have to look for a sustainability model, that nothing is free. I already know that nothing is free, that if the barriers are lifted we will pay it with the taxes of all the Spaniards, but just as we are paying the other highways with money of all the Spaniards, including the Valencians. I insist, 25% of the average privatization on the roads of the state, 35% on the Valencians. I know it's nothing free, but for some it's more free than for others. That is why we voted for a socialist president - and I said that this morning - so that he would not do the same as the president of the People's Party did. We have voted for a socialist president, among other things, to lift the toll at once or to toll everyone. The Valencians say, "Or all the Moors or all the Christians." But not some yes and not others. Therefore, I have not been reassured by his words because when we seek to study a sustainability model I already know that he will not lift the toll, that the Valencians will continue to pay from 2020; we will continue to pay and, therefore, we will continue to pay as with the PP. Maybe paying a little less, but we'll still be the same as with the PP. [[The lady]] He mentioned three actions, which were already planned. As for Oliva, I don't know, the mayor's been fighting for how many years, and you and I know it. I who worked in Altea and who had to go through Oliva every day that was a real nightmare, as was my people until a socialist minister ended up inaugurating the circuitry. Oliva I don't know how many years later she still suffers; Oliva and so many populations of La Safor and La Marina. When his former party partner and minister, Carmen Montón, made the reversal of the hospital in La Ribera, there was a commission that had been working a year earlier. Are we working to ensure that the day after the contract is concluded the barriers will be removed and we will move freely? Is there a guarantee? Is it going to start with the budgets? Is there a commission and will you inform us on time? Or will we continue to study and everything will remain the same, Mr. Ábalos? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. To conclude the debate, Mr de Fomento has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u282	I agree with that phrase: Tots moros or tots cristians. That is what I have put forward before; what I am suggesting is that, in the end, the sustainability of the network has to be financed globally, through taxes or through use. In any case, what is clear is that there is no extension, the system of the current tolls wins. I would continue to maintain, even, this approach... On a free track, I can't commit to that anymore, but obviously it's not the model we've known so far, at all. Are we working on it? Yes, regardless of how we close it in 2019. Moreover, this way of working will also allow us to define it at last. We are working on everything I have said to you, to study the demand for traffic, the alternatives, because, in the end, this is the only fast track we have, it's the vertebrae but it's the fast access route, and if it ends up being another secondary road, we'll have missed the fast one too. We have all this to see and we have to have serious studies in that regard on demand, on use, on the possibility of connections, which we will have those that we can have, which admits a way of those characteristics. We're working on all that. Perhaps I have not answered the three questions clearly or routinely, but the story has allowed me to at least explain what needs to be done and what we are doing. They're doing all those studies. And all that is being done with the Generalitat, as it cannot be otherwise. Until the deadline of December 31, 2019, we still have time. The only thing I have told you is that we are not going to advance the reversal, because there is no economic capacity for it. Until December 31, 2019, there is a year and something to go on, but we already have an end, and at this time, we can also work well on all this, not with the precipitation of previous occasions. But, of course, we are not thinking of barriers, neither of the current model, nor of any of this, but of an egalitarian model, of course, that does not penalise the territories, because although it is true that the Valencian Community is in that situation, Galicia also has a tremendous excess of tolls. We have to look for a model for everyone, no distinctions. I insist that we are working on everything technical to make, in the end, the convenient decision with the Generalitat in December 2019. My hope is that it will come out positively, and that is what we are working for. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard about Carmen Alborch's death, and I cannot resist remembering her. Thank you. - THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MARIA, ON THE RIGHT TO MOVITY AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT, BY THE DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLENESS OF A NETWORK OF PUBLIC, ECOLOGICAL, SOCIAL AND QUALITY FOR IMPROVING COMPETITIVENESS, VERIFICATION AND SOCIAL COHESION IN OUR COUNTRY, AND IN PARTICULAR, TO KNOW THE GUIDELINE FOR GOVERNMENT TO THE RAILWAY PUBLIC SECTOR IN THE FRAMEWORK OF REGULATORY CHANGES AND THE ADVANCES OF LOGISTICS AND TRANSPORT AS STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE ECONOMY. [[File number 172/000152]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u284	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the right to mobility and public transport, for the development and sustainability of a public, ecological, social and quality rail network for better competitiveness, vertebration and social cohesion in our country, and in particular to know the orientation that the Government intends to give to the public railway sector in the context of regulatory changes and the advancement of logistics and transport as strategic areas of the economy. For your defence, Mr Pascual Peña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u285	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President, Mr Ábalos. Firstly, on behalf of my whole group, I would like to express my condolences to you and to the Socialist Group as a whole for this loss. We are discussing here today a debate that I think is essential, and that is what the Spanish and Spanish are going to do with the lion's share of that collective investment in infrastructure. It is an investment that can be used for concrete cult mausoleums or that can be used, on the contrary, to guarantee the right to mobility of Spanish and Spanish people. We are also discussing this because there are some reasons why we should have a debate like this. First of all, you are aware that the time is running out to transpose Directive 2016/2370, which is going to reform Law 38/2015 of the Railway Sector, on which a decision will have to be made: whether we are going through the French and German routes to strengthen the rail public transport service in Spain or, on the contrary, we are going through the line proposed by the People's Party and the CNMC to cut it and then liberalize and privatize our railway sector, dismantling it and leaving the less economically sustainable parts of the network unprotected. Secondly, because he is also aware - I am sure - of the report of the Court of Auditors of the European Union, which spelt out the whole model of the high-speed network in Europe, including that of Spain, and which detailed, among other things, that it was being very inefficient and that it had been designed, in many cases, with political criteria - I think it meant partyist and electoral criteria -. This will certainly lead you to reform ADIF's indicative strategy; I think we will be on it and we will have time to discuss the issue. Thirdly, I also believe him to be aware of the catastrophic state in which the network of proximity and half-distance is located, a product of the disinvestment he has experienced in recent years, and in particular of the lack of maintenance. The network of closenesses of Madrid suffers from a contract that does not properly perform the maintenance work as it should. The old FEVE network in the Cantabrian is losing travelers day by day. In Andalusia until his own ministry he recognizes that the trains have come out frog, and in Extremadura the trains come out burning one per week. It is necessary to reinvest the priorities of that ministry in order to bet on the medium distance and the closeness. Fourthly, this House, through the Committee on Development, unanimously, including the Socialist Group, urged you to meet with the municipalities to bring to this House a law guaranteeing the financing of public utilities for collective urban transport. We are already a month behind this, and I hope that you will have time to have that meeting, because it is essential that the municipalities, which are the ones providing that service in the last mile and in the penultimate mile, are not at the height of budgetary discretion to guarantee a basic right, such as that of the mobility of all citizens; and I am aware that you worked on this issue when I was a Member. Finally, with regard to the peremptory issues, I believe that it is the environment that must gravitate the rest of the ideas. The European Parliament, on 8 October, told all the governments that they had to speed up the decarbonisation process, and that means complying with what we agreed in the White Paper on Transport. The White Paper on Transport states that we had to have made a transit from the modal quota of the car - which is the most polluting, 40% of the pollution in our cities - to the bus and the railways, and this has not been given as you well know. But look, Mr Ábalos, I am convinced that when you propose a state-of-the-art infrastructure pact you are actually thinking not only of these conjuncture reasons, but also of the fundamental reasons that require a state-of-the-art infrastructure pact. The first thing I would suggest to you is that, instead of talking about the state infrastructure pact, we should talk about the state pact for the right to mobility of citizens. Why am I telling you this? I tell you this because the one-dimensional reading that the ministry had had before its arrival, when the PTI, PEIT or Pitvi was built, has been a reading in which each line was viewed in isolation from the network as a whole. This is something that has been of great interest to builders, who are line-to-line contractors, and to future dealers, who are also line-to-line. That is why there has been carnal relations between Seopan, the employer of the builders and concessionaries, with their predecessors in the ministry. It was very evident when Mr De la Serna and Mr Rajoy presented here the Road Investment Plan, as thirteen days earlier we had seen that plan, a plagiarism of that plan, in Seopan's presentation of the analysis of priority infrastructures for Spain. But Seopan is sitting in his vice-presidentship, next to Florentino Pérez, to Mr Lazcano Acedo; he is the gentleman who is asking for $5 billion in patrimonial responsibility of the Administration, and he is the same man who designed the radials when he was general director of Roads in the Alvarez-Cascos government. That is, there has been an intrinsic and fleshly relationship between Seopan and the Ministry of Development. So you have to get the fox to look after the henman, but you also have to get the fox's ideas out of the henman. In this sense, we point out the need to have a multidimensional, omni-comprehensive and holistic reading of the situation of infrastructures in Spain. We believe that the right to mobility is half-right; it is a right that guarantees other rights. If we do not have equal access to mobility, it is difficult for us to have equal access to education, health, culture or leisure. Mobility also conditions the use of our public space. I don't know if you know that, but 65% of the use of our public space in cities is meant to park cars, 65% of that space. And it also occupies an important part of our time; 187 hours on average per year. That means we spent a month of work just going and coming to the work center. Look at how important the right to mobility is. Not to mention 40% of CO2 pollution and 70% of the greenhouse gases caused by cars. There are many externalities that require that the vision on mobility - I insist not on infrastructure, but on mobility - be multidimensional, that it integrates horizontally with other ministries, as I am sure it should integrate a state pact for the right to mobility, and also vertically, municipalities and autonomous communities. I also believe that this is essential because we often overlook some other externalities that are not so visible. When Ineco - which depends on you, Mr Ábalos - puts at the point of view twenty-five railway lines in Spain, some of which are very important, such as the Vigo-Leon or the Sevilla - Mérida, it is not only putting at the point of view those lines, because it understands that they are not efficient in economic terms, in fact what it is doing is calling down to depopulation in those areas, because it is evident that it decapitalizes symbolically those municipalities where the railway used to pass, because those municipalities will be much more difficult to attract new investments, attract tourism, attract new businesses. In other words, there is an externality that is not taken into account when such measures are taken. The same is true when a railway station is dismantled. In Loja they have recently dismantled the hundred-year-old railway station they had, and that directly attacks one of the identity-building bases of that community. The people of Loja have lived multiple experiences as citizens when they have fired family members or when they have made their way. What do I mean by that? That this multidimensional vision must allow us to understand phenomena that transcend the mere fact of building infrastructure. There is a particular phenomenon that I want to point out to you, which is identified by the geographers and to which Davis Harvey refers, and it is the annihilation of space over time. What does that grandiose phrase mean? For basically it means that nowadays geographers are no longer painting kilometers on the maps, they are painting hours, because the revolution of speeds in our transport systems has annihilated the conception of space. At this moment - and there is still no high speed to Galicia - it takes less time to go from Vigo to Madrid than from Vigo to Lugo. It is that there are fourteen times more possibilities and faster to go from Cordoba to Madrid than from Cordoba to Jaén. The consequences for these populations that have been historically communicated, and for the fragile entrepreneurial, educational, hierarchical, personal, etc. tissues, are transcendental and are not taken into account, the effect of macrocephalic central nodes, such as Madrid, which with their tractor effect divert investment and divert trade relations, is not taken into account. That is why we are proposing that you work on the line of a chained mesh network, which is known as a web spider, a web in the form of a spider web in which the trunk axes are - we already have them - but that we also have cross axes and have a mid-distance capillary network and closeness that allows you to feed those cross axes. I am going to set an example with Andalusia, and let me do so to compensate for the imbalance that there are times when Catalonia is appointed by the gentlemen of the PP, who are now not because things of territorial cohesion do not interest them, except when they can be tense. [[Applauds]] There's a very quick way to start working to co-ordinate in this cadenced mesh network formulation. In Andalusia two thirds of the municipalities with more than 20 000 inhabitants, and we have almost ninety, are not connected to the railway network, but it is that we also have nine municipalities with more than 50 000 inhabitants, that if we put them together, it would be the fourth city of Spain that could connect to the railway network for the equivalent of the cost of 50 kilometers of AVE. That's what we're asking you; we're asking you to bet on dedualizing the Spanish rail network, that you bet on focusing on the media and proximity network. So far - I'm sure you know this data - 100 euros have been invested for each high-speed traveler and 1 euros for each traveler of proximity and half distance. We have a system of financing very far from European convergence, a third of the subsidy for travellers in Spain compared to the European average, and that means that it costs us 800 euros on average to pay Spanish transport every year. It is an amount that probably does not matter to Mr Martínez-Maillo, who says that he lives in Zamora and comes from there to Madrid to work every day, but for the vast majority of workers, for those 6 million workers who charge less than 600 euros a month is a very important amount. More investment must be made in subsidies for transport financing. I insist, we have to invest more in that network of half-distance and proximity and in the maintenance of it. We have half the workers per kilometre in Spain who maintain that network that Europe has. Mr Ábalos, you have the opportunity - I hope you will pick up your hand - to put us at the forefront of the defence of a right that has not yet been defined, which is the right to mobility. This country has been a vanguard many times: it has been showing the world that there was a revolution for equality with a feminist strike, it has been demanding social justice on May 15, and it was this House when it joined us to think differently about many things to drive corruption out of our institutions. You bet to also throw the concrete vultures from the Ministry of Development, and let's start working to guarantee the right to mobility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Pascual Peña. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u287	Thank you, President. The truth is that it has been a pleasure to hear from you, Member, above all because you have done almost an abnormal exercise in this House, and it is, in good tone and in good style, to invite us to a crucial and fundamental reflection. I think it makes a lot more country like this, because we are thinking about the country we want, and above all with the open tone with which it has raised it. I am already telling you that you can count on me, even to conclude on something. In addition, it has attracted much attention that you invoked the right to mobility, because you already know that I, although late, is also not a professional engineer. Everyone thinks that if it's Health you have to be a doctor and if it's infrastructure you have to be an engineer. This is so absurd, but we know that if we really want politics to be made, this is something else. That being said, one of the issues that I have realized - at least things get relatively fast - has been that there is indeed a sense of demand in the citizenry about mobility. If something is required with this intensity and according to a need, it is because we are talking about a right. It is true that, as I said before, this is possibly a third generation right, but a right. If transport issues mobilize platforms and are the cause of demand, it is certainly the formulation of the claim for a right. I therefore fully agree with you with regard to the right to mobility, and of course the first one wins, in the sense that I am going to change my proposal for a pact for infrastructure for what you have just said. We're gonna change it. [[Applauds]] I'm going into what I wanted to say now, because since I didn't quite know where you were going, you come prepared as you can. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity, especially because of what has happened these days on their land, to acknowledge the work carried out by the professionals of the various public services during the management of the incidences produced by last weekend's time. I would also like to thank the passengers concerned for their understanding of the alternative services which in many cases had to be improvised, and which we were forced to implement. We are still working to replenish and restore the roads to the highest security conditions. Turning to the content of the inquiry, I must confess once again that I thank you for the opportunity that you have given us to open this debate, and that I am convinced that we will have the opportunity to land and reach important agreements on the basis of the approach that you yourself have just proposed, and that it seems to us to be the most appropriate for the moments we live in. We therefore very much agree in much of the speech, not to say that in everything, because we have to be concrete, but we also agree, both with regard to the right of citizens to mobility and public transport as well as in the development of a public, ecological, social, quality rail network, and as it cannot otherwise be sustainable. We also feel identified that all this contributes to Spain's greater competitiveness, vertebration and social cohesion, as should be the case with transport infrastructure. A great deal of effort has been made over the past 40 years in terms of infrastructure. At least those of us who have more than forty know that if something has physically changed this country has undoubtedly been about infrastructure, which has made us find ourselves in very considerable rankings, both on high speed and on motorways and at airports. Finally, there are important rankings in comparative terms. But it is true that the new transport policy of the Government of Spain should be focused on safety, prioritizing the conservation and maintenance of infrastructures - I link it to the previous debate - because conservation is fundamental, for example, on the issue of road safety, although it is also true that we have had accidents in this country that have caused us a strong impact, and you know that around there, in my walks, I say that I prefer to announce other dates so that I do not incur any risk of safety, because with that you do not play, so you have to inaugurate it when you have to inaugurate it or as if you never inaugurate it; with security you do not have to play. Therefore security and the right to mobility, as you rightly said. Here is a fact that draws attention, because while high speed had 21 million travelers in 2017, we made 420 million trips in close proximity in Spain, twenty times more. That is why investment in neighbourhoods, which sometimes seems like the little brother, must be a priority and be part of the social policy even of this Government. Thirdly, the maximum contribution to short-, medium- and long-term economic growth, which involves increasing public investment, the connection of such investment with innovation, which is fundamental in the transport sector, and the internationalization of our economy, has something to do with innovation and all this development if it is not to internationalize, both our private and our public enterprises. Also ex ante evaluation of new infrastructures as a tool for decision-making. There seems to be a growing demand that in infrastructure policy rationality has to prevail, or somehow it has to be, what cannot be is an aggregation of diverse demands, some of a client nature and others of pure decorum; in the end, we cannot make an infrastructure policy that pursues all these objectives on the basis of demands that are being added. Therefore a more rational infrastructure policy and resources must be reoriented towards more remarkable conservation, as I said, and in projects that improve productivity, social and territorial cohesion, with particular respect for the environment. In this regard, as you have already recalled, the European Commission approved in 2016 the so-called fourth railway package, with the aim of advancing the creation of a single European railway area. This package consists of a set of six rules, the main objectives of which are: the opening up to competition of the domestic market of commercial passengers from December 2020, and the obligation to tender as a general rule public service obligations contracts which expire from 2023 onwards, in any case in compliance with existing contracts. To clarify the roles of different actors involved, ensuring that there is complete independence in the exercise of essential functions, and to speed up and homogenise the processes and costs faced by new operators. But although these changes come from Europe and involve the introduction of more competition in the sector, in my opinion we must not lose the social perspective, and we will work to make demands compatible also with our own visions. With regard to high speed, the high speed train moved from 1.2 million users in Spain in 1992 to the more than 47 million that added AVE, Alvia and Avant in 2017; that is, there has also been an exponential growth of passengers. To the first line Madrid-Sevilla have joined others like the connection of Madrid with Barcelona and France, Levante and other points of Andalusia and northern Spain where the main cities of Castile and León have also connected. In this way, the AVE surrounds 64% of the market share in the Madrid-Barcelona corridor, and its dominance is indisputable in front of the plane; in this much space has been gained. Therefore in high speed we will continue to work the works of the sections that we have in progress, such as Antequera-Granada, Monforte del Cid-Murcia, Murcia-Almería, the completion of the Galician line, the variant of Pajares, the line to Extremadura, the Basque Y or the connection Chamartín-Atocha-Torrejón de Velasco. We must also think of high speed as an opportunity, as I said before, to generate synergies that allow us to internationalize all this investment we have made. In the case of medium distance there is also a growth in services, although more moderate, of 1.5% in 2017 compared to 2016. These services will benefit from the forthcoming formalisation of the public service obligation contract, which will ensure its delivery over a long period of time, through the financing of the operating deficit, and services will also be expanded. In fact, we are already expanding some services, even under Renfe's own funding, some that are covered by the public service obligation and that we have already started to wait. For example, near Villena, in my community, has been launched this same week. We will also continue to make some improvements on the conventional network in the Bobadilla-Algeciras, Granada-Almería, Sagunto-Teruel-Zaragoza, Palencia-Santander, Medina del Campo-Salamanca-Fuentes de Oñoro, Mérida-Puertollano, Grañena-Jaén or the Camarilla variant. As far as proximity is concerned, as I anticipated at the beginning of the intervention, we daily transport more than one and a half million travellers in the neighbourhoods. Almost 90% of the collective transport journeys that take place in Spain are trips in the urban and metropolitan areas. So that space is very important. It is okay to talk about high speed, I say we will continue with it, we will complete the projects, but it is true that the core of our railway network, the future bet should be the proximity, because it is the rail service that most uses people and certainly the most complained people. Nearby services are also showing, beginning to overcome the crisis, a strong recovery of demand. If in 2017 it was the mode of transport of 488 million passengers, 3.5% more than in 2016, in the accumulated to September 2018, this year, there are already more than 372 million passengers who have chosen us. It is also true that where we want to focus is the execution of the closeness plans, basically in Madrid, Cantabria, Asturias, Valencian Community and rolling stock in Catalonia. We should also talk about goods, not only in railway matters, and rail access to ports, which is essential. In this sense, I would like to highlight as an example the work we are doing with the Valencian Generalitat and the Valencian City Council. Before I had forgotten to answer a question to comrade Baldoví, and of course I will receive the mayor of my city, of course, and also with regard to Joan Ribó. How am I not gonna get it? We are working for the development of the terminal of Valencia-Founte San Luis or with the Basque Government for the development of the terminals, and especially in Jundiz, in Vitoria-Gasteiz. As I do not tire you any longer of saying that our will is that, and knowing your attitude I invite you, and it would be a pleasure - not only to you, but to the rest of the parliamentary groups as well - to have, to the extent that you have taken the initiative, some future proposal that goes in the direction that you yourself have described, and that I personally share. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u288	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Pascual Peña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u289	Thank you, Mr Ábalos, as it could not be otherwise, for the listening attitude. Count on us to try to make constructive contributions. I think that was the tonic of our group in general, and that's where he's gonna find us. I was glad to hear you talk about the priority of proximity. We probably do not fully agree on the pace of transfer of investment from one sector to another, but we will certainly find some meeting point in this debate. On the process of liberalization of the railway sector, what is known as the fourth railway package, which comes with three previous ones, wanted to give you some clues to be able to go on the line - surely also the technicians of the ministry have given them - that indicated before trying to continue to see the railway lines in Spain with an integral mesh optic, and not cut, to avoid that process that lived England not so long ago, and that we know in what ended: that finally they had to rescue the lines that had been privatized, among other things because security failures increased exponentially. When it comes to transposing both Regulation 1370/2007 - not the 2370 to be transposed, but a previous regulation - and Article 93 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Articles 3 and 11 of the directive itself to be transposed, they leave room for a sincere and committed - I hope we will find - bet on public service obligations, and why the centre of the regulatory aspects does not reside in the CNMC. I think you are already aware that the CNMC is an enemy agent of liberalisation and privatization that we have infiltrated in this country; it is going to pose a rather important problem to you with the issue of the greenhouse within a few weeks, as we will have an opportunity to discuss. I think there is enough room for the CNMC not to make the decisions and it is rather the State Railway Safety Agency - I also pick up the idea of betting on safety - or the Ministry of Development itself, which has the space to work in line with the enabling titles. We already know what happens when a country's infrastructure system is disengaged, when it begins to privatise those parts that are profitable, economically seen in themselves and in a disengaged way, and when we leave to the public sector all the parts that economically are not profitable, even if socially, and we end up in a model in which we finally have everyone and all rescue companies after they have taken juicy profits. So I insist that I go through that line. Secondly, regarding the proposal for the right to mobility and which has a pillar in intermodality, as you well know, I would ask Renfe to suggest that he make a proposal for tariff integration in all the metropolitan consortia in which he is, because in many of them he shares means of payment, but there is no tariff integration. For us to understand each other, I would ask Renfe to be part of the transshipment model when citizens have to take several vehicles; if they have to pay several vehicles this is an insurmountable obstacle for many of the intermodal operations we live in. Thirdly, I would ask you to convene the municipalities to be able to discuss the law on the financing of the public collective urban transport system. I think you are aware of the number of travelers who move every day - you mentioned it here - and of how it feeds other networks, such as that of proximity or that of mid distance. For that I suppose you will have to invite other ministries, civil society and the transport sector, but it is urgent that we go and solve this problem before in future budgets we have to be back at the dawn of arbitrariness - as happened when Citizens stumbled for 10 million for the City Council of Valencia -, and we built to pieces the financing of a service as important as this one. We also propose that we put on the table a moratorium for new high-speed lines - that we finish those that are committed, but instead of thinking about new high-speed lines for new projects, we dedicate ourselves to closeness and mid-distance -, and as I said before we bet on renewable energy in the means of rail transport, for which we have to make a major investment in the electrification of our medium-distance network, which is still far from reaching even 50% electrification. In the same way, I think it would be sensible to think about converging with Europe on subsidies to public tariffs and balancing the number of workers per kilometre of the railway line. I believe that this is a common sense and could also be studied. In any case - and I finish - thank you for the listening attitude. Here we are. I think he knows a lot about how to contact us and we'll be seeing each other whenever it's to work constructively. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Pascual Peña. To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u291	Thank you, President. I will intervene from the seat because I will be very brief. I want to thank you again for the tone. I hope that we can also participate in the motion resulting from this inquiry so that we can reach an agreement. I know that serious issues in Parliament are often boring, but funny things are sometimes very negative, and then there is always the hangover, which is worse. I am therefore grateful for this, because politics is like this. On the other hand, I would like to acknowledge that we are actually having a lot of problems. I notice the pressure a lot. It's funny that, after four months of being, you have the fault of trains that haven't changed in eleven years, and that they burn, that you have to change and that you have all these problems. The first thing I want to clarify is that trains are nobody's. The tracks are no way to move them, but the trains, yes. Therefore, trains have to be changed because they belong to everyone. I say this because there are those who say: the trains have taken away from me. But they are not of any territory, what happens is that they have to be accommodated according to the possibility that the machine can provide a service, and sometimes, sincerely, cannot provide it. It's true, we've had trains that have been burned because they can't handle that intensity, they're not for that. Maybe they can work a little longer on shorter journeys, so we have to play with that. Why do we have to play with some misery of rolling stock? Because a train has not been bought for many years; that is the situation we have, that in all these years, because of the crisis, because of the priorities, because of what it is, has not been reversed. And in the case of a train doesn't go one - I'm not going to tell a mall because I'm not going to mention any brand - and buy it. To bid, to award, to hire, takes time, which can reach even two years. Therefore, we do not have that provision because we have neither a budget nor a replacement. That is the dramatic situation. A certain impotence is generated when one sees the situations and the incidence of this problem in Extremadura, for example. How do we fix it? It is that we are very limited and the only thing we can do with the budget that we have found is to try to bid as soon as possible, to get it out as soon as possible, but that is the limitation we have; on the one hand, a budget that we have to comply with and, on the other, a rolling stock that in many cases does not stand up and has no replacement. That's the situation. I know that asking for patience is difficult, but it is also true that we are trying to bid right now 3000 million that are in the budget. Now, when we do the hiring of public service obligations, we will be able to bid those 3000 million in rolling stock which, of course, will come very well and satisfy many of these needs. I am grateful for the good tone and, above all, for the patience in these issues, which are, as I say, complicated and in which we must act with a long time, a lot of perspective and a lot of vision. So thank you is double. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u292	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the implementation of the Government's policy on migration. [[File number 172/000153]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u293	We turn to the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the Government's action in migration policy. For your defence, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u294	Thank you very much, Madam President. With your coming, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, a few days ago and only in seventy-two hours more than 2,000 people arrived in our country on their feet playing life, trapped by mafias who have no reservations about offering a happy archadia that, however, sometimes - often - becomes death and desolation, and others - also often, unfortunately - ends up in human trafficking. It is an example of what is happening every day beyond our borders and also within. There are also cases where they seek to cross our borders with violence and miscontrol, and for them there is a very clear message: nothing can be achieved outside the law and order. Ladies and gentlemen, this question takes its meaning in the particular relevance, as you know, of the matter before us in our country. It is in view of this particular relevance where, we understand, his Government must take a special role and have a trained approach. Your Government, Your Honor, has not so far had a well-formed approach, I am very sorry to say this, but this is what has happened in these four months and all the Spaniards have seen it. We cannot say that in these months of history the Government, your Government, is recognized by a single and firm approach in this matter, not in fact, but not in the words, Your Honor, even among the various ministerial departments of your Government. The government has gone from here to there: now I condemn the hot return; now I decree the immediate expulsion; now we do not make CIE; now I build a CIE and later we paralyze the CIE. Where's your government going? That's what we want you to explain. Today we have the opportunity to explain to this House what has happened in these four months of bandages. Is your government going to continue to bandit on immigration or do they prefer to have a state criterion, a clear criterion that we are asking all Spaniards? Do you really care about a coherent immigration policy or are you going to go step by step, as you stand up and decide that day? Does it matter to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you did not expect to rule with eighty-four Members and that responsibility has fallen on you for which you are not prepared or who do not know how to manage? What is happening in the government in the area of immigration? Because you can't be giving bandages permanently and much less on such a sensitive subject as this. Unfortunately, that is what we have seen in the Government in these four months, where positions have varied in every ministry, many times have even been opposed in the same ministry. We know, Your Honor, that the situation is not easy, this is not an easy matter, of course we know it, and we are here to help; we are here to offer a State alternative, which the People's Party has always had. And it is good that they listen to us because they will be listening to most of the Spaniards represented in this House by the People's Party, the party that won the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is not easy, but we offer you our loyalty, our institutional loyalty to immigration as in all other matters of general State interest. It is this loyalty that makes us ask you today, ask your Government, because it is the same loyalty that forces us to go out immediately to correct the government and to tell you that when you intend to do with immigration a political marketing operation, as happened with the Aquarius, we have the responsibility to denounce it and tell it to the face and demand explanations in Congress, how not!, without demagoguery, without populism, but with reality. Because the decisions made by a government have political effects and that means that they have effects on the citizenry and that means that sometimes the effects are almost irreversible, very difficult to remedy. That is why decisions must be taken seriously, away from populism and demagogy. Mr. Sánchez's first decision with the Aquarius was a decision full of demagogy, a decision full of political interests and political marketing. [[a Member of the European Parliament: Woe, woe]] It is our opinion and that of the vast majority of Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I know that sometimes, Your Honor, like everything else in politics, things are not to your liking when you are told, but that is the way things are and we will have to exercise our right to say them on behalf of so many Spaniards. And do not pretend our silence in the face of errors of such magnitude, precisely the institutional loyalty of which I spoke is the one that makes us show them that this is not the way. Spain has been showing solidarity with the rest of the world for decades. We do not need any ruler to come and build a hyperbole of what Spanish society has been doing for years. Spain is a solidarity country where the State Security Forces and Corpses, Red Cross, Maritime Rescue and various NGOs have always turned with humanitarian aid saving lives; they are the real protagonists. Let us go from here the support of our group, and certainly of yours and of all the groups in this House, to those volunteers and solidarity workers who become the greatest day-to-day and who make our country a model of coexistence in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that when thousands of people flee from misery, terror and danger, the first thing is to save their lives. All the support in this humanitarian task for them. If the government wants, we will work side by side with it on this goal. That is why we never understand, Your Honor, the unilateral decisions made by the President of the Government with the Aquarius, have been decisions that have left a mark and that have created a so-called effect. When we look back it is not so much to reproach but to warn that these kinds of situations should not occur again. There are questions we have asked about this particular issue that the Government has tried to avoid with laconic answers, they are of the tenor of why they do not give the same treatment to those who arrive in patera; or at those times why they were based on the coordinates to take to Valencia the Aquarius. Wasn't there another nearest port, Your Honor? We need answers and, above all, we need the commitment of your Government that there will be no more political realities in the area of immigration, that we will do things right, that we will come together to take action before the European Union and defend the general interest of our country away from populism and demagogy. As we have already said in this House, Your Honor, you are not going to hear any criticism in humanitarian matters, but in dealing with Mr Sánchez's political coup d'état at the time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u296	You can't turn the arrival of the Aquarius boat or the saving of lives into a reality. Today Mr Sánchez has again repeated a subject of this tenor by referring to the rescues now in the Mediterranean Sea as a novelty. No, Your Honor, you're not, you're not right. As you will recall, and as we have also said in this House, Armada has saved 15,000 lives since 2015. Only the frigate Queen Sofia rescued 4000 people two summers ago and there was no politician in the port nor there was any reality, there was responsibility. [[Mr Campos Artesero: Neither in Valencia!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u297	Mr Campos, remain silent, please, and let us respect the person who is in the rostrum in speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u298	It's the same responsibility we're asking you now, not to speculate and do things right, Your Honor. You also said - you said it - that you wanted to remove the concertinas but without saying how or when nor anyone from the Socialist Party dares to say that those concertinas were put by the Zapatero government. Speak clearly and transparently and say things as they are. [[The Lord]] And if you give a mandate that you will remove the concertinas, immediately that implies a responsibility and you have to offer answers to society and you have to say what the system that will replace the concertinas will be because it creates a gap that produces social alarm, because it lights up the mafias that are against which we are fighting and can not give a centimeter of advantage to the mafias, Your Honor. We are here to help you, but also to tell you that you have to exercise your responsibility and we are not going to shut up in this task, ladies and gentlemen. You in the Commission and in plenary have attacked us for saying that you have created a so-called effect, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you here of some of your colleagues' words. The new Director General of National Security, Mr. Ballesteros, said textually that the Aquarius put Spain at risk because if you open a door there they will all enter. Then came Mr. Borrell, his fellow minister on the bench, and said that the effect called was immediate. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why are you criticizing us when we were talking about an effect called if much of your government is holding the same? It's not reasonable, is it? Well, let's just say things as they are. If you could find something healthy in the uncoordination of a government like yours it would probably be that sometimes the truth appears in one piece between so much hazing and confusion, and in this case Borrell and Ballesteros were telling the truth. And among all, not a single gesture against the mafias. We need more constancy in your words. We need you here to explain what you are doing with the European Union to fight against the mafia. We need strong phrases, deeds and not just gestures of action against the mafias, Your Honor. There must be more coordination here, which unfortunately does not exist. The Minister of Labour said that the shelters were overflowing, but at the same time you from the Ministry of the Interior said that that was not true, that there was no need to create any kind of social alarm. We ask you to provide the State Security Forces and Bodies with more means, they are asking for it, the unions and we also ask you to do so. The Ombudsman said here last week that more means and more specialized personnel are needed. They need to strengthen the State Security Forces and Bodies. I know you support them, but they have to give a clearer message and clearer support, with means and with concrete facts. You have created tents in some host ports that have been flooded and unserviceable within two days. This denotes the improvisation of the Government. And then the State Security Forces and Bodies cannot work there in the same way and give the same resolutions as with material means in condition, Your Honor. Today Podemos has again asked his lordship to withdraw the hot returns. We would like to know what the Government's view is on this because this has been written down and a lot has been said. You've changed your mind once and twice. It has recently defended the view of the former Government in the European courts, the courts of justice. Are you going to continue with that task or, yet, are you going to do what your partner tells the dictate of populism? It is interesting to know this because, of course, when you have a government that represents you, the first thing you want is certainty; the first thing you want is a government that makes a decision that is not then corrected; you want a government that guarantees you; you want a government that gives you legal certainty. But, Mr Marlaska, with Mr Sánchez, we have almost no government, no legal certainty and no future for this country. [[Applauds]] Therefore, the important thing is that you, to the extent of your possibilities, do your best - which you have also shown in your career - and make decisions that are correct. If they are correct, they go for the general interest and move away from populism, he has no doubt that he will have the support of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u300	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like my first words to be a reminder of Carmen Alborch and of solidarity with the socialist family, of which I am one more. [[Applauds]] One of the abilities I consider to have in politics is the ability to listen; I remind you, the ability to listen. This minister has listened to you carefully, because listening gives me the opportunity to learn, to inform myself and to be sure that I do my job better, and that is why I have to thank you. I don't know if it would be much to ask you now to do the same, to listen, because in the face of the predictable call of a humanitarian problem you, from 2013 to 2017, ignored. This is the graph that shows the increase in arrivals by sea. [[Displays a graph]] If you listen, you will realize that your criticisms oppose your own party, and that's good because it's also a sign that you are recognizing your own mistakes, something unusual - it's true, Your Honor - but that's positive, and you're also moving it into this rostrum, which is even more positive. I answer your question, Your Honor, but the first message I send you is that with this government the migration crisis does not come, with this government the migration policy returns to face the challenges of Europe and Spain, Spain and Europe. And what was that challenge? I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen: the growing migratory pressure towards Europe has been under discussion in the European Union since 2015. Since then, all the European Councils and all the Internal Affairs Councils, the JHA Councils, have addressed the increase in irregular entry across the Union's external borders. From 2013 to 2017, in Spain - as the graphs I have shown - irregular arrivals of migrants by sea and land increased by 301.2%. The data is public and accessible, Your Honor. While citizens have the right - and it is true - to know what is being done, because we are here to do things, they also have the right to know what was not done and, therefore, what we should do in the face of that omission. The state of public security that we were in when we arrived at the Government was a lack of resources, a lack of personnel, of which you spoke recently, and a lack of coordination. I will remind you - since you have said that you show that support for the State Security Forces and Bodies - what your security policy is. We have met nearly 12,000 fewer police officers and civilian guards during this period. In 2011, the last year of the Socialist Party in power, Spain had 155,149 agents, and in 2018, June 7, when I took possession, after seven years of government of the People's Party, this number had been reduced to 143,210; also public data. We are talking about 12,000 less police officers in the streets and squares of our cities, fewer civilian guards in the rural world, fewer police officers protecting school exits, protecting women victims of macho violence - and my memory for the two women murdered today - or fighting against different threats to our security. An example in migration: in 2013 there were 7121 migrants and in 2017 there were 28,572. Another example: in 2014 they applied for international protection at the Asylum and Refugee Office 5952 people and in 2017 there were 31,738 people: more than 500%. What has been done by the governments of the People's Party in the face of this very strong increase? I repeat: 301% on irregular migration and 500% on requests for international protection. What did they do with their 'call effect'? If you want results, there is no better result than the evidence: what this government has done in four months should have been done by you four years earlier. By making a minimum review, I will tell you that we welcomed the Aquarius for responsibility, for humanity and because Spain knew how to recognize the challenges that Europe had ahead. As you know, no country authorized its docking and Spain proceeded to communicate to Europe the need for a real and effective policy; it was never unilaterally. Good proof of this is that later and twice - I remind you - the same ship docked outside Spain, in other ports, with the commitment of different countries of the European Union to assume the migrants. Something had already been done by Spain and this socialist government. Your Honor, at that time we generated international trust and led a European migration policy, and we continue to do so today. How, I was wondering. Fighting illegal immigration, because legality is not permissive, and working for safe, orderly and legal migration. These objectives have been articulated through the following measures. Firstly, through political cooperation with countries of origin and transit, identifying common interests in building trust relationships. In the first three months I have already made various trips to Morocco, Algeria, Mauritania and Senegal - obviously working - and relations have intensified. Secondly, developing projects in those countries, not only by visiting but also by developing projects through capacity-building and joint operational work that allows the exchange of information, the establishment of relations and the achievement of satisfactory results for all States involved in the chain of origin-transit-destiny. We have strengthened aid to international police cooperation in more countries. Thirdly, the fight - which you were talking about - against networks of smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the protection of the rights of migrants, starting with that of life, requires action with all the operational force possible against networks, against mafias; networks that pass through the smuggling of migrants to drug trafficking, to arms trafficking, to terrorist activities. In this regard, I should like to highlight the results of the joint Spanish-Mauritian police cooperation team. In my time as a minister, 27 operations against irregular immigration, a total of 24 detainees and the arrival of 1672 migrants from Mauritanian coasts has been prevented. Fourthly, control of the external borders of the European Union, because our borders - I want to remind you - are the borders of the European Union. For the Member States of the Union, which are external borders, it is a responsibility that must be exercised for the benefit of the whole, not only of Spain. Fifthly, return, return policy. The return in its two versions, voluntary and forced. It is the last ratio to the extent of the State of destination to discourage departures. We have recently managed to get back with Senegal, because you had forgotten about it or Senegal had forgotten about you since 2015. These are the concrete actions that I would like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen. The Spanish migration policy includes both important and more important elements that also manage the Ministries of Labour, Migration and Social Security - as you have said - and also Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. And it is that the Spanish migration policy is a comprehensive and comprehensive policy in which the fight against illegal immigration is so relevant as the promotion of safe legal channels, reception, integration and development cooperation. Proof of this is that shortly after arriving at the Government and by Royal Decree 694/2018 of 29 June, the Government Delegate Commission on Migration Affairs was established, which had disappeared despite its last three years in the Government, chaired by the Vice-President and composed of heads of various departments and which meets regularly. The Government of Spain has also directly involved itself, beyond the magnificent bilateral relationship, in the recognition by the institutions of the European Union and its Commission of the fundamental role played by the Kingdom of Morocco as a reliable partner, being subjected to a major migratory pressure to which it devotes considerable resources. As a result, as the President of the Government said this morning, progress has already been made in a permanent and important agreement between the European Union and Morocco. This was also the result of the visit of the Moroccan Minister of the Interior - one more of the visits that we both turned - last Saturday to Madrid, in which we were already able to fix the success of the road undertaken during these four months and also the challenges that we still have, which are many and plural but which are already at least concerned and in an area of permanent trust. I'm going on, ladies and gentlemen. We have launched the temporary care centre for foreigners in San Roque with an urgent investment of 3.5 million euros and in collaboration with the Military Emergency Unit. And the CATE of the port of Motril has also been expanded. The agreement of the Council of Ministers of 3 August 2018 provided for the creation of a coordinating authority because we need coordination, which you too lacked. They lacked material means, personal means and coordination. On 2 August, I submitted a comprehensive reform plan for the Asylum and Refugee Office, with the approval of 231 new jobs, an extraordinary public offer of employment to cope with the collapse of the asylum office. I remind you how the level of dossiers - and therefore your work - had increased by 500 % and you had ignored it. In Ceuta and Melilla the work study on strengthening and modernizing the land border plan is being completed. Don't worry, you'll soon have a developed and effective job and the Government will make the decision in that regard to which you alluded to the concertinas. Your Honor, you refer in your inquiry to jumps, when it is precisely your Government that holds the record of jumps on the border perimeters of Ceuta and Melilla, in Melilla in 2014 and in Ceuta in 2017. Go to public and reliable data. I see that it shows great concern when, however, in 2012 they removed from the General Council of National Security the Specialized Committee on Migration, which has had to be set up this year after we arrived at the Government. Well, you've already met. It is clear - because we have reported this - that last Sunday, at 9 a.m., an attempt was made in the Rostrogordo area by 300 sub-Saharans, 209 of whom succeeded, three of whom were minors; 208 were reported by the National Police; 26 sub-Saharans and 7 civilian guards were injured and one person who, after forty minutes of attempted resuscitation, unfortunately died. I'm finishing up, President. Of these, 137 sought asylum, 55 migrants were reinstated by Morocco under the 1992 Hispanic-Moroccan Treaty. Effective enforcement of rights. These 55 individuals had their individual files, with the presence of counsel, like the other 137 who applied for asylum and were not returned. We actually articulate the instruments that we have, what you did not do even when you reformed the law and set the returns hot in the terms in which you understand them, which are not the terms in which this minister understands them. This Government applied all the parameters within the framework of legality and international policy based on dialogue, coherence and the guarantee and maintenance of human rights. I insist, from 2013 to 2017 irregular entries increased by 300.1%. Imagine the opportunity you had to contain it and begin to imagine what would have happened if no policy had been applied today by this Government. I promise I will finish, President. Once access was produced - and I think it is important to refer to this last fact - last Sunday, the usual protocol was established and two police devices were mounted. Once again I show support, as it could not be otherwise - and I want to say it expressly as I say every day - to the professionalism and work of the State Security Forces and Bodies and I thank the health personnel of Melilla, the Civil Protection, the Spanish Red Cross and the people who are working at CETI. Your Honor, this government does policies that target people and that is why we will be open to citizens, close and giving answers. We want to focus on citizen security, but expanding the focus of human security is an opportunity and we believe it is fair. That, you know her name? Responsibility. In August, with another particularly violent entrance, we sent a message...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u301	Minister, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u302	I'm finishing up. Thank you, President. At that particularly violent entrance, the 22nd of August, we sent a strong message to the Mafias. Do not hesitate that we will continue to act coherently, because our aim is to make the borders of the autonomous and, at the same time, more humane cities safer. It's difficult, Your Honor, but not impossible. If you have listened to me, you can imagine what might have happened if it had continued with the inaction of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to Mr Rojas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u304	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your information, but the data is failing you. Look, at this point, in a year you're going to beat all the records you've had and because there's illegal immigration. Unfortunately, this is the data that is being handled by all the institutions, which are being handled by the State Security Forces and Bodies. By the way, I express our full support for the State Security Forces and Bodies. I'd like you to confirm if it's true that infected cops from the Aquarius are going to report you to the courts. This is reported in information that adequate health measures were not taken, that the Ministry of the Interior did not provide the necessary equipment for officers to receive immigrants, that many police and civilian guards were deprived of the purchase of monkeys to cover the body, and of gloves and masks for lack of resources, and that they also infected their families. If this is so, this is serious, Your Honor, and I would like you to explain it. I would like you to explain many things, I would like you to explain your Government's position on the future, because you have spoken a lot about reproaches and a lot about the past. It has surprised me that you are dedicated to making a list of criticisms of what has been an exemplary work and task of the People's Party in the field of immigration all these years; exemplary in the task of internal affairs, and exemplary in the treatment and support of the State Security Forces and Bodies. And I'm very surprised by the disdain that your honor is doing here an analysis of the past that has nothing to do with reality. You don't handle the data well, Minister. You say they have expanded the CATE in the port of Motril. On the contrary, what they have done is take the UME to set up tents that have been flooded every two days and have served nothing, and what they have done is cut the media in the port of Motril, where immigrants are arriving. What they have done is, when they came to the government, say that the ancient CATE was useless and that it was a reproach, and it turns out that when it's been a month they have had to go back to the ancient CATE and it's the best in the world! That is the policy of your Government, ladies and gentlemen: first to criticize what has been done before and then to do what was being done before. As for hot returns, are you going to keep them or are you going to face the partners of Podemos? Be clear and say it. We asked him the questions with clarity on the meridian. The confusion, the lack of direction of your Government has not been able to explain it. You have come here and read a number of criticisms that have prepared you, but you have not been able to explain your Government's lack of judgment. The 60 migrants of the Open Arms in Barcelona were granted a humanitarian permit of 30 days, for example, 15 days less than those of the Aquarius. Why, ladies and gentlemen? The 87 migrants of the Open Arms of Algeciras were subjected to the common protocol, which is the one that receives migrants who arrive in patera on the Spanish coast, away from extraordinary health and police devices and away from the media focus. Can you argue here with guarantees that those are not changes in criteria and bandages? They are so with all their consequences, Your Honor, and you have not been able to defend these government bandages here nor have you been able to explain them. Your Honor, they're gonna beat all the records. From 1 January until now 45 000 people have arrived in Spain irregularly. This figure exceeds the historical record of entry into Spain, during the crisis of the Cayucos, which took place in 2006, when 42,180 people arrived. These figures are not due, as you have said, to a slightly more important thrust of migratory flows. Do not make Zapatero, Your Honor, who did not recognize the crisis, the problems and, therefore, did not know how to solve them. Please acknowledge that we are facing a very delicate situation, which has been increased exponentially by Mr Sánchez's political decisions. That's the reality. Spain is now classified as the priority route of the mafias. This is what needs to be fought. It is the first destination for irregular immigration, now surpassing with its government, for weeks, the figures of Italy and Greece: more than 42% of all irregular immigrants crossing the Mediterranean to Europe use the Spanish route, known as that of the Western Mediterranean. This is the erratic government policy. And what about the MENA, the unaccompanied minors, the ones we were talking about the other day and the ones we can convey to him our concern about. There are more than 11,000 unaccompanied minors who have arrived in our country this year, 50% in Andalusia. Many of them - and you know this fact because you know it - are wandering the highways, the police stations, and there seems to be no Administration that can accommodate them. The autonomous communities are overflowing. The Government does nothing to coordinate. Let's see the decree coming out on Friday. Have you coordinated the autonomous communities? Do they have the consensus and support of all the autonomous communities to deal with the issue of the MENA? Because, from what has been heard here this morning, I do not think they have any established consensus. That is what we are asking of you, Your Honor: certainty, responsibility. You are talking about the policies of the People's Party and I regret that it was to criticize them because they have been state policies and should support them and should draw out the good they have had to continue with them towards the future, because that makes a government stronger. Your Honor, when you talk about defects, you have to look at your own, your government's, and that's your responsibility. We told him the other day at the plenary: last August 8th more than 100 immigrants spent the night on a sea rescue ship in Motril; they were given cubes to do their needs during that long night. In Algeciras a tugboat made CATE for dozens of immigrants. They've turned rescue ships into several CATEs. That had never happened to immigration into our country, ever. That has happened to your Government and it is you who have to explain it. Who is responsible for these decisions, Your Honor? Who took the responsibility of letting a hundred people on a boat spend the night and giving them cubes to do their needs? We want to know the name of the person responsible because, if not, the person responsible is you and you have to face and explain it in Parliament. When you are asked for these explanations, Your Honor, it is not to reproach but to make things work better. Departments that defend people's rights are priority for the People's Party, for the free defense and legal guarantees of all people who come to our country, of course, but you also have to guarantee them. Two very serious complaints have been made, both in Almeria and in Granada, of bar associations, which do not have the means, which are dealing with immigrants from ten to ten. Doesn't this Congress deserve the opportunity to hear your explanations in this matter on matters that didn't happen before and that are happening now? Your Honor, you're going to beat all the records, unfortunately, if you still don't take care of the problem. And what we are demanding here is a legal, orderly immigration linked to a job, in cooperation with Africa and in the fight against the mafia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u305	Mr. Rojas, you've got to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u306	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. That is the message of the People's Party. It is now and it has been with the previous Government, it has always been. And with that message we achieved significant challenges and spectacular declines in the arrival of illegal immigration. And that's what we expect of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u308	Mr. President, Your Honor, thank you very much. Have I read? Well, now I'm not going to read; I haven't read much, but I've followed a script, because this thing I know. What happens is that I see that you have an ignorance and you have read some document that has been prepared by someone who does not know much and you, without a critical spirit, have assumed that data. [[Applauds]] I will simply give you two references to this so that you can see that ignorance of yourself or of whom you have made that report. He said: 11 000 unaccompanied minors have entered this year. I don't like the word MENA. Look, 11,000 unaccompanied minors are registered in Spain. Last year, at this time, 8200 were registered, that is, 11,000 is what is now, not what has entered this year. You like to generate alarm, but that's not the reality. Do you want another question of your ignorance or that of who does that writing, or that you want to cause alarm? You say that the lawyers in Melilla and Ceuta are absolutely overtaken, who care for foreigners from ten to ten. False!, go to the data and talk to them. Other criticisms will do, but it's not ten in ten, they're personal files. Do you know what's going on, like it happened on August 22nd? That was 116 migrants. See how I don't need to look at it? Because I work, of course, 24 hours a day in this matter: 116. Each of the lawyers appointed by the Bar Association of Ceuta attended ten. That's different, not ten in ten, but he attended ten. You understand that, don't you? [[Protests.-Applause.]] I think you did not listen to me in my speech, because of course I have spoken about the past. I have talked about inaction in the past, I have talked about that in the past nothing was done, because nothing was done and society, citizenship, also has to know. That's what we have to tell you. But I've told you what we've done in these four months. But have you not heard what we have done? Haven't you noticed what we've done and achieved? We are already being dealt with, we are being understood and our proposals on migration are being addressed in Europe. I will tell you one thing so that you understand the problem that yes, you have spoken to the principle of cooperation. I know you don't have the option, but I've had it and it's a luxury for me, to coordinate the State Security Forces and Corpses, those State Security Forces and Corpses that you've squandered. I've already explained it to you in those terms. [[Protests]] When Mr. Zapatero left the government in 2011 0.63% of GDP was devoted to security; when Mr. Rajoy left him it was 0.52. Things like that I've told you too. Less effective, less material resources; we are providing them with material resources. Ask yourself in the Gibraltar Field what plan we have made and referred to, investing €7.5 million to generate security in the Gibraltar Field too since we arrived in the Government in December this year. Ask there too. Of course they are state policies and I only ask you, because I think you have not heard, heard, heard what we have done. I was telling you about luxury - I'm not going to make any other comment about what I had written here - because I know what this is about, because I'm working on it. Of course it is a problem, but it is a European problem. I will set an example for you, so that we can see how important development cooperation with Africa is. Do you know what the current population of Africa is? I don't want to give you a test: $1.3 billion. Do you know what it's going to become in 2030? In 17 billion people. Do you know what it's gonna be in 2050? It is going to be 25 billion; that is, by 2050 the population will be doubled. What do we have to do with them? Development aid, equal to equal, Europe with Africa. That is what this Government is doing and promoting. It was the president of Senegal, Macky Sall, a wise man, at least for me, with whom I had the luxury of being, who said to me: We have a reality and we know it perfectly well. This is a question of Europe and Africa. You will not be able to assume the migratory flows that are coming to you under different circumstances, but we do not want to lose our youth either, because we want to continue building our country, that is, the solution is to cooperate. That's what he told me. You know what you have to do, also cooperate with this Spanish Government, because these are state policies. I promised the President that I would finish, and I would like to do so - just like some of you - with a few words that our dear Carmen Alborch said in his last interview: The secret of joy is resistance, knowing how to fit in and adapt to the circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-24-CD181024.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. After the debate, the meeting was suspended. Thank you very much. It was five and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
