ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the debate to consider the proposed law of the Murcia Regional Assembly on the generation of renewable electricity for self-consumption. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House, as well as the President of Parliament and all of its members and deputies from the Murcia Region. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Alfonso Martínez Baños. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u2	President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the Government of Pedro Sánchez for lifting the veto imposed by President Rajoy on the handling of this bill by the Murcia Regional Assembly. The agreement of the Council of Ministers last Friday to eliminate the sun tax and the adoption of this bill would be a revolution in the development of renewable energies. In this sense, our country, Spain, has international commitments to fulfil in the short, medium and long term, the years 2020, 2030 and 2050. To date, legislative measures taken to implement these commitments are insufficient and inefficient. We need a law that guarantees the full development of renewable energies. That law, without a doubt, is the one that we have proposed to you from the Parliament of the Murcia Region, a law that there was supported by the political parties of Podemos, Citizens and PSOE, which we hope and wish to reproduce in this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an innovative law, which comes to change the Spanish electricity system, from a concentrated generation to a distributed generation; that is, to democratise the production of electricity, to change a system of electricity production that is in the hands of a few to a new one that controls consumers. It is a proposed law designed and made to benefit people. It is a question of the consumer no longer being on the periphery of the system to become the protagonist. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law would allow the full development of electricity generation for self-consumption. In this sense, the terms of shared net balance are introduced to enable the self-consumption communities of owners to benefit or regulate the self-consumption of a consumer with points of supply or installation in different properties; and also something very important for the Region of Murcia, to enable the self-consumption of desalination plants. On the other hand, the deferred balance sheet is regulated to facilitate consumers' alternative energy exchange with the trading company. In addition, I say that this bill would be the most effective instrument to combat energy poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, the full development of electricity production for self-consumption is a top-level strategic issue for our country. We are energy dependent and our economy is unproductive. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u4	We therefore need legislative instruments that guide us towards energy self-sufficiency and improve the competitiveness of our business fabric. If you, ladies and gentlemen, take into account the handling of this proposal for a law which we have so carefully drawn up in the region of Murcia, you will be taking a very important step in this direction. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u5	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. You have the word Don Oscar Urralburu Arza.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is a pride for me to represent today in the Congress of Deputies to the Regional Assembly and to do so also on behalf of my party, Podemos, in the Region of Murcia to defend precisely the consideration of this law of generation of renewable electricity for self-consumption. It is an unprecedented example, at least in the history of the Murcia Region, of legislation, of an autonomous parliament that is able to put in the Congress of Deputies an initiative to legislate at the national level an issue as important as electricity generation in our country. And it is special to me because it was also made by its intellectual and political author, a friend, a colleague, Antonio Urbina Yeregui, physicist and professor of UPCT and also deputy of Podemos in the Regional Assembly of Murcia. With this proposal, what we want is to fulfil the mandate of the Paris Agreement, that is, to progressively replace fossil fuels with renewable energy, putting us at the forefront in the fight against climate change and curbing the advance of desertification in a territory such as the Murcia Region, which is very sensitive, as you all know, to the progress of climate change and desertification. It is therefore an initiative for the present, but also for the future of our region and our country. Helping to mitigate the rise in global temperature throughout the 21st century is one of the main problems of the globe and in the region of Murcia is a structural problem. We know in the Region of Murcia what means the reduction of precipitation and the increase of the average temperature. Many experts recognize that it is possible that in twenty years it will be possible to reduce the available flow of almost 40% in our territory, completely breaking our agri-food industry and putting the way of life of hundreds of thousands of families at risk. It's a disaster for the Murcia Region in slow motion. It is vital to apply what is going to be dealt with in this House in order to apply it also to the desalination plants in our territory. The European Union has been aware of this for a very long time and has therefore issued a number of European directives - both Parliament and the Council - to make this possible, in order to make this transition to renewable energies. However, we have not done so in our country. We're getting late. We've wasted a lot of time. From the last government of Zapatero, in which Minister Miguel Sebastián imposed electric tolls, to Minister Soria, who established the so-called sun tax, what the Government of Spain has done has been to serve the interests of the big electricity companies and not the interests of our country. It is a shame that Spain, the European territory that has the most hours of sunshine a year, is wasting its enormous renewable photovoltaic potential within the energy mix. Therefore, the first objective of this law is to repeal Royal Decree 1455 and, therefore, to repeal access tolls; to repeal, as the Government of Spain did last Saturday, the sun tax; and also to reward small producers who inject energy into the electricity grid, proposing a democratization of the electricity system in our country, moving from a centralized network to a decentralized network and introducing new actors into the electricity network of our country. It is an opportunity to take advantage of the enormous potential of renewable energy, to reduce production costs and also to avoid or reduce the losses that exist in energy distribution. One of the positive consequences that the processing of this law can have will be the effective lowering of the price of light for all users; not only for self-consumers, but for all consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious law. We have the technology, we have the knowledge, we have the workforce, we have the productive capacity and, if no further progress has been made, it has been due to a lack of political will. To democratize energy production and consumption is to advance towards the energy transition and it is a pride that the Murcia Region brings this proposal for transforming the energy model in our country to the Congress of Deputies, which is also key to being able to advance in the transformation of our productive model. This law places the Region of Murcia where it deserves to be. This law places us, just one year after bringing here the request for the elimination of restrictions on the status of autonomy, at the forefront of Europe in renewable energies. I'm done. This law has come here because the People's Party lost the majority in the Regional Assembly in 2015 and also because the motion of censure has lifted the veto that the Government of Mariano Rajoy has maintained over the past three years. We must therefore be fully aware that we can only make progress in the fight against climate change and we can only make progress in the democratization of the electricity system when the People's Party is not in government. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u7	Thank you very much. You have the word Don Miguel Sánchez López.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to appear in that rostrum for the second time in this parliamentary term; the first was for the elimination of squabbles and this time for a subject as pointed as this law of renewables, this law of self-consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change. Although there are still those who deny the evidence - there are still those -, climate change is already producing an environmental imbalance that in the immediate future will have unpredictable consequences. It's not a problem today or tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, it's a problem yesterday. The fight against climate change is global in nature. Peter Senge talks about the necessary revolution and, in this regard, since the 1992 United Nations Framework Summit on Climate Change, important steps have been taken, it is true, it must be recognized, like the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled, in order to achieve this objective we must move from a fossil-fired economy to a renewable energy economy. In this respect, it is true that the European Union has made a strong commitment to this transition and has placed particular emphasis on self-consumption. In fact - and as a button shows - on 14 June, without going any further, an agreement was reached between the governments of the European Union and the European Parliament to set a binding renewable energy target of 32% by 2030 and to include the upward revision clause by 2023. The new directive, which is the result of this agreement, recognises the right to self-consumption and rights such as generating, storing and selling excess electricity, installing and operating storage systems, as well as receiving remuneration for the surplus poured into the network. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of renewable energies was inexorable. The only thing that has been done by the People's Party has been to stop it with measures that have impeded its development, especially with the so-called sun tax, which imposed the charging of tolls on self-consumption in clear contradiction to what is prescribed by the European directives. In recent years, this has been the greatest obstacle to the development of this type of energy in our country. Citizens, on the contrary, have always opted for the transition to renewable energies, wind and photovoltaic energies, and the result of this decided bet is born the law of the Regional Assembly of Murcia, which, I remember, is the year 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, in this law, as in previous cases, such as the reform of the Electoral Law, democratic regeneration, the elimination of tax cuts or the abolition of taxes, such as successions and donations, the Murcia Region is also spearheading, again we are proud to be pioneers in this initiative. [[Applauds]] Citizens, as it could not be otherwise, actively collaborated in its processing and bet on it with their favorable vote. But it is that to a greater extent, this law is very similar to that which Citizens registered in this House in 2016 and which was unfortunately blocked by the People's Party. It is a very complex and complete law that in addition to protecting and regulating self-consumption, in addition to eliminating tolls, incorporates an important development that allows us to regulate in detail all the technical and administrative conditions for the different modalities of self-consumption of electrical energy of renewable origin. This regulation allows for the rollover to the network of surplus produced and, thus, the development of decentralized local electricity production systems, including through small communities of production and consumption, with very short transport journeys that reduce both economic and environmental costs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that last 5 October the Council of Ministers adopted the royal decree repealing the sun tax, but this regulation is clearly insufficient, because it does not finish regulating this sector in detail. However, today's proposal from the Murcia Regional Assembly does regulate in detail and detail all aspects related to the production of electricity for self-consumption. It is a first step for the new culture of sustainable energy production that is more economical, more environmentally friendly, more cost-effective, inexhaustible, with the capacity to generate many jobs and more tax revenues than traditional production. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that not only do we have hours of sunshine in the Murcia region, but we have the capacity to work, initiative, talent and desire to innovate. Take this law into consideration. It is our duty to ourselves, to our children and to our planet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u9	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome the representatives of the Murcia Assembly, congratulate them on that initiative and we are pleased that the veto that had prevented their processing has been lifted. We agree with the basic approach of the initiative, with that impulse to the renewables that you defend, with that new regulation of self-consumption and with that disappearance of the sun's tax. As you know, all the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Group of the European People's Party, present at the beginning of this parliamentary term a proposal for a law in that direction. In addition, the Government, in a royal decree adopted last Friday and which we are sure to validate next week, is moving in the same direction. Therefore, full coincidence. As a sole reflection, if this initiative is taken into account today and we therefore begin its processing, I would like to tell you that you base the title of competition on the status of law as a basis that the State can establish in economic and energy activities. Some of the honourable Members referred in their speech to the fact that the virtue of the text was in the detail of that regulation. As you can understand, in the Democratic Party there is a certain concern that a basic law will over-regulate what can and should then be developed by autonomous parliaments. Basic laws, by definition, provide a general framework for public policy action, which communities can then develop. Therefore, we will look with that prevention at the initiative that you propose to us. A basic law cannot prevent those autonomous communities that have more ambition, if any, or opt for other technical solutions other than those proposed by state law, from doing so. We have fought very hard in this House, precisely, that under the basic law technique the legislative content of the autonomous communities is emptied. I respect their position in the Murcia Assembly, but we are concerned. I am going to make two observations on the substance of your intervention. In this area of combating climate change - and now in a moment we will have another debate with an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group - it is good to remember that the local dimension of the policies we make must not make us forget that this is a matter of global dimension. As much as Murcia, the Spanish State or Catalonia are committed to climate change mitigation, if this policy is not global in nature and therefore involve economies such as the United States or developing economies, our mitigation efforts are going to be very limited. Yesterday the report that was made public by the panel of experts reminded us once again, even reminding us that the Paris commitments are insufficient to avoid the risks associated with climate change. Local dimension in this area of mitigation, sure, but without the global dimension it will not work. In the local climate change dimension, the main effort is to adapt to climate change, and there I think we still have a lot of work to do in our public policies. With regard to the second consideration - and I conclude with that, Madam President - the energy transition to that 100 % renewable, to that non-dependence on hydrocarbons, to the electrification of the economy, in any approach we take must also have very clear perspectives on how these transitions affect the competitiveness of our economic fabric. In the near future, when the Government moves the climate change bill to us, we will have to see how it is put forward, how we make those horizons compatible, and how we affect employment and the ability of our companies to compete in the global economy. In any case, they're going to count on our support. I convey these warnings to you about excessive regulation in your basic law, but welcome this initiative, because we basically share your approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u12	Thank you, President. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the Murcia Assembly who are here today. Of course, our group sees a need to move towards an energy transition in which, of course, self-consumption has to play a key role in the economy, and also to make the consumer get cleaner and cheaper energy. The truth is that this bill comes from a previous legislature in which the figure of self-consumption was penalized and, therefore, in this context we understood its raison d'être. Last Friday, however, a royal decree-law was passed in which not only the negative effects of the previous legislation are recognized, but also this figure is recognized to encourage the development of solar photovoltaic energy; a royal decree that, among other things, establishes the modalities of self-consumption, removing those regulatory barriers that make it impossible to develop it and establishing the possibility that, through a regulation, mechanisms of simplified compensation be developed between deficits of the self-consumers and surpluses of the production facilities and, ultimately, that assumes and collects the content of the proposed law that on self-consumption we sign most political groups in this Congress. For this reason, this group understands that it is perhaps through this royal decree that this figure of self-consumption must be addressed in order to achieve a greater development of it. In this sense, in principle, this group is going to abstain in this proposal for a law, more for the form than for the substance, although we understand that there would be issues in this proposal for a law that should be modified or matified. Furthermore, we also agree with what Mr Campuzano has said with regard to the basic law; we have our doubts because other autonomous communities cannot be prevented from opting for other solutions, so they cannot be emptied of these powers to the autonomous communities. In this sense, we agree at the bottom but not so much in form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u13	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u14	Good afternoon, Madam President. I also welcome the representatives of the Murcia Assembly. Today is October 9th... [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Esquerra Republicana will always show its support for initiatives to legislate for cleaner and more democratic energy. The proposal for a law discussed here today aims to combat climate change and promote energy saving by replacing fossil fuel-based technologies with renewable ones; specifically, it seeks to boost the self-consumption of renewable electricity and promote a shift in the energy model towards a greater role of decentralized production. To that end, we know that it is essential to establish a regulatory framework to support these proposals, and the Murcia Parliament will find no better ally than our group. It is a clear bet that, however, did not make the previous PP government, as you have already pointed out; it is more, far from enhancing these measures, it dedicated itself to implementing barriers, as is the case with the known sun tax, which assumed that we would move away more and more from what is becoming more obvious: a change in the current polluting and unsustainable energy model. Promoting self-consumption generates activity and employment and this automatically translates into an increase in tax revenues. In addition - recently a Greenpeace report argues - the self-consumption would entail a savings of 1770 million euros in fuel costs, networks and 10 million tons per year of CO2. Another relevant factor that should not go unnoticed is that competition in the electricity market is increasing, and this is very necessary given the current oligopolistic situation in which we find ourselves with the consequent impact on the electricity bill and that we are increasingly suffering from consumers and SMEs. This proposal for a law, however, comes to us just after the publication last October 6th of the Royal Decree 15/2018, of October 5th, of urgent measures for the energy transition and the protection of consumers, a royal decree that in part already contemplates the measures contained in the proposed law - you have advanced -, although it still does not meet all the objectives we expected and I suppose that will be the subject of a debate, I hope, recently, in this very House. Don't worry, you'll probably have the same interest and audience, it's nothing personal. However, we hope that this time, without parliamentary-legal records, we can make a good mix of all the good that his proposal and the actual decree mentioned bring to us. We find a overlap in the intentionality of some amendments such as in article 6 of Law 24/2013, of the Electrical Sector, which the Royal Decree amends and which its proposed law repeals. We hope to resolve the processing of both projects, as well as possible interference, as has already been pointed out, in competencies transferred to the autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u16	First of all, I would like to greet not only the colleagues of the Murcia Regional Assembly who have come to present this law, but also its president and the rest of the colleagues, as well as all the members of the Murcia committee who have come today to discuss this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, from Citizens - as our colleague Miguel Sánchez has already said - we continue to maintain our commitment to self-consumption and to the distributed generation. Why are we doing this? Because it is a logical instrument to reduce the environmental impact of electricity generation without applying additional conditions, some for the electrical system. This generates a number of advantages. Many of the advantages - I have been told by previous colleagues - are from an environmental point of view, as they have said: reduction of CO2, which mitigates the effect of climate change, replacing energy from fossil fuels. Also in the rural sector, so much as we talk about the rural sector and care about it, this energy means being able to guarantee supply in the rural sector, and this would mean replacing engines, diesel, generators that are in the agricultural and livestock farms or that have their own regal communities to raise the level of water. These actions would reduce their energy costs and improve the environmental impact because they would eliminate many of the high-voltage lines that cross the forest sectors. In addition, we need to transpose Directive 2009/28 of the European Community, which establishes the need to promote a change of energy model in the European Union with particular attention to decentralised production. There are also economic advantages, such as the technological changes and the fall in the cost of renewable energy can lead to an increase in a productive sector which, today, by the real decree of the People's Party, has been totally diminished and paralysed: installers, industry, distributors, dealers or engineers themselves making their reports will be able to develop their activity here in Spain. They just talked about Mr. Urbina, who is a professor at UPCT. In our region, in Cartagena, they end up being licensed every year as great professionals in the field of renewables. Where do they work? Abroad. It's your fault, gentlemen of the People's Party. Specialized jobs would be created, from those that have to be really generated - not the jobs that are generated by you, for example, in the region of Murcia, which are temporary and precarious -, specialized, where a new distribution of vocational training would be introduced. The university would have a lot more specialization, our university students would have a way out, we would work in training, we would also work to lower the dependence of the Spanish energy sector on the outside and we could have greater independence, which also comes well, because often any modification of the global geostrategic system can affect the rise in the cost of gasoline and therefore affect our economy. That can go down with the renewables sector. Another advance would be the reduction of energy costs in families, as Mr Urralburu has said, but of all families, not only those of self-consumption. There would also be social advantages, more accessible and cheaper energy; energy poverty can be combated; services in deprived areas that avoid rural abandonment can be improved; disadvantaged groups, less unemployment, greater future for our children, transparency in the electricity sector. I'll explain one thing to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Many of you are economists and know what a cost of opportunity is. The opportunity cost is the cost you have for not choosing one option and choosing another. After all these advantages that I have told you - increased development, improved innovation, improved environment, improved economy, improved jobs, improved citizens' economy - what is your reason for choosing the other way, to put rates on consumption, to put barriers on the market, technical barriers to installations? What are your reasons, gentlemen of the People's Party, for making those decisions? Think about it. I'm clear on which ones, but it's important that you think about it. So much so that the spokesman for the People's Party in the Assembly, Mr Martínez, or the president of the Murcia Region, López Miras, speak here that they are fighting for the region, according to an assessment of the energy companies of Valencia, these two years, with the royal decree, will be able to earn 450 million euros. How much money has been lost in the Murcia Region? How many jobs have been lost in the Murcia Region? With what face will you look at the citizens of the Region of Murcia to say that you fight for your rights? In 2016, we proposed a law in this House, a law that not only regulated self-consumption but made the electrical system work efficiently and transparently, proposing actions to improve the cost mix by which the electrical bill is accounted for. Mr. García Ejea came here when we asked for an audit, saying, "There is already an audit done by the engineers and the ministry." What a reason you had for not lowering Spanish electricity bills since November 27, 2017! Yes, we already knew what the direct costs of the electrical system were! Knowing that more than 50% of invoice costs were costs that were not subject to the electricity system! With what face are you going to look at your constituents? With what face are you going to look at the citizens? I hope you will change your attitude, I hope you will support the environmental, economic, civil and also personal development of many people who are waiting for us to move this law forward in order to ensure that, once and for all, our region develops in an appropriate way. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u18	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by welcoming the representatives of the Assembly of the Murcia Region who are accompanying us in this meeting. [[The Lord]] I would also like to mention Antonio Urbina, a social activist and former Murcian deputy of Podemos, without whom this initiative that we are presenting today would not have been possible. Today, October 9, he wanted the chance that we are debating a bill on electric self-consumption just after three years of passing the infamous Decree 900/2015, better known as the sun's tax. This decree, in fact, was the last piece of a series of regressive reforms, legally retroactive and drafted at the service of the major electricity companies to stop the advancement of renewable energies in our country. Today we can start a change of direction in Spain's energy policy. Already last Friday the sun tax was suspended by decree. It has been necessary to throw out the People's Party to put an end to a decree that enriched the electrics and ruined 30,000 families. [[Applauds]] But there is still a way to go, we need to move forward with the creation of new legislation that relaunches renewable energies and consolidates an energy transition that looks to the future and not to the past. We need an energy transition that allows us to democratize the way we produce and build energy; an energy transition that reduces the power of the electric oligopoly, currently dominated by five multinational companies, and returns control to the citizenry so that there will never again be families that pass cold in winter or public administrations that cannot heat or refrigerate a school because of the abusive prices of electricity. [[applause]] This law of electric self-consumption that we are debating today and which comes to us from the Assembly of the Region of Murcia goes in this direction, sustainable, democratizing and anti-oligopoly and is a first reform that must be completed, sooner than later, with the adoption of the law on climate change and energy transition that our Confederal Group registered last July. Climate change, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the great challenges facing our country and humanity. The many Governments that signed the Paris Agreement are aware of this, taking on a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our country, as is known, is one of the most fragile in Europe in the face of the devastating effects of climate change; we are an environmental border and the desert is moving from the south, from territories such as Andalusia or the Murcia Region. Well, in order to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, which are concrete in the urgency of limiting global warming to a maximum of two degrees, European countries have made ambitious commitments to boost renewable energy and energy efficiency. Spain was in the opposite direction until this week. It is true that the government went to the summits, but to take the picture while the renewable energies were being crushed. However, I believe that we are still in time to correct the course and assume these international commitments that will benefit the social majority. The law that we are discussing today will facilitate this path and will do so by giving citizens the opportunity to generate their own renewable electricity, mainly through solar photovoltaic energy, and to exchange it with the electricity grid. This law also regulates the mechanisms for accounting for this exchange with the network through different modalities of net balance sheet. The aim is to restore control of electricity production and consumption to users without being penalised for this. This will mean a paradigm shift in the design of the electrical system. So far, a few multinational electricity companies have had the electricity market kidnapped. They are the only ones that generate energy, distribute it and sell it to us at a price far above the cost of generation. From now on they will lose the monopoly of production. Individual individuals, collectives, associations of neighbours, small and large municipalities will be able to produce their own electricity. In addition, they may consume it or dump it into the network receiving a payment just if the balance sheet is positive. It will also not be necessary to go to major marketers because the advances in information technologies will enable them to be supplied in a decentralized and distributed market where the various agents exchange energy between them. Due to its technical characteristics solar energy is the ideal technology to be able to advance in this energy revolution and self-consumption is the main tool to democratize this electrical system distributed in small and medium-sized installations. Otherwise, we could risk that renewable energy will once again remain exclusively in the hands of a few companies. Renewable plants, yes, in this we will have improved, but we will not have changed the basic structure of market control that now possess five large companies under oligopoly regime, which has allowed them to raise prices almost at will. Therefore, we entered a new time, behind were the lies that renewable energies were increasing the price of electricity. In order to give citizens back their ability to decide on their energy consumption, it is necessary to create an appropriate regulatory body that facilitates self-consumption and exchange with a net balance in a new concept of electricity grid. This law facilitates this, and therefore its parliamentary procedure should be as soon as possible. I therefore announce to you that the Members of the Confederal Group of the European People's Party and of the Compromise Group are going to request that we proceed with the urgent procedure. We know the battle has just begun. The first ones who are aware of the great change that this law represents are the five electricity companies that control 90% of the oligopoly market and, of course, do not want anything to change. We know that Iberdrola, Endesa, EDP, Viesgo and Gas Natural Fenosa are not going to stand still. They have powerful lobbies, we know them well because many politicians and former ministers of the People's Party and the Socialist Party have gone through their boards of directors. It is true that Members who are voting in favour of this bill this afternoon will find it more difficult to take a rotating chair and end up in one of those armchairs, but at least those who vote in favour will be able to say that they laid the foundations for a cleaner and, above all, more democratic electricity system. It is time to change the direction of a retrograde energy policy and because that is what is already being done in most European countries. That is why this afternoon we voted in favour of this law to make Spain a more sustainable, more modern and, above all, a better country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mrs González Veracruz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon and, first of all, welcome Members of the Murcia Regional Assembly, not only those who have spoken but also many colleagues and friends who are with us today, headed by the President of the Murcia Regional Assembly. I said that a year ago, but it is such a pride to have a president for the first time - and also to always accompany us in these events - that I have to highlight it. To all the people who have come from Murcia I want to tell you that it is a pleasure to have you here and I want to congratulate you on the work done because there is still a long way to go in the Murcia Region to have at national level the space we deserve or need for our regional development. This is no less, I can assure you. I know the national landscape well and I know my region very well, which is a great unknown, which has a large percentage of GDP, with a much larger number of inhabitants than it usually seems and I know that we have a lot more to contribute. In addition, I am also proud to say that in just a hundred days of socialist government the Murcia Region is already being positioned on the national scene, as long and so often we have claimed in the last seven years. So today is good news, as it was a year ago, when we intervened here for something positive. We have already forgotten how the Region of Murcia was once and again news in the regional news precisely because of corruption, and that is not the Region; the Region of Murcia was not every day to be in the news with presidents clinging to the armchair but a pioneering region that wants to remove the stumbling blocks - and I ask from here that it be unlocked and that, once, after a year, we be able to reform the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia - but a pioneering region for such a strategic theme as that of renewable energies. It is a pioneer region, but precisely for its people. In addition to congratulating the work that has been done in the Regional Assembly and also mentioning Professor Urbina, I would like to mention the associations, the Foundation for Sustainable Development, the business fabric, all those people who have managed to make the Murcia Region the European region with the greatest power installed per square kilometre despite everything, despite its moratoriums, despite its real decrees, despite so many families ruined or on the verge of ruin by the decisions of the People's Party Government. The Murcia Region needs this bill as it needs a solar Murcia project, but it also needed the change of government, it also needed that, as we saw last Friday, we end up with that injustice that was the sun tax, something as unusual as having to pay for the very energy that you generated, as if you had to pay for the harvest that you plant. Of course, this topic is so interesting that we could develop the concept of water-photovoltaic energy binomial, something very interesting for our region since we are a region very rich in sun -3000 hours of sunshine per year, 300 days of sunshine per year - and we have that raw material, that wonder of sun that precisely needs to alleviate the shortage of water. It is a combination that must be developed at a time when the Socialist Government, with the support of the rest of the groups, obviously continues to take steps to ensure that this source of wealth is also a source of growth. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law, as has been said today, has been stopped for two years, vetoed. How important it is to reach agreements, how important the motion of censure was, how important it is to reflect here, as representatives of the people we are, what most citizens want, which is exactly what we Socialists are doing with the support, of course, of the rest of the groups. [[applause]] Where I had previously vetoed the Rajoy government - and we will now speak - there is debate today and there is progress because, simply, the Rajoy government in seven years destroyed, destroyed with any possibility for renewables and clean energies. It is quite absurd for Europe to take advantage of the sun country, it is quite absurd for Spain to turn its back on all these policies, as the People's Party government did. The Rajoy government, the People's Party - and that is where I included the People's Party of the Murcia Region - made it clear who it was defending and of course was not defending the interests of the majority. That has been shown over and over again. The Spanish People's Party remained alone in the European Parliament, alone, even when other right-wing parties and the European People's Party voted in favour of the proposal for self-consumption in the winter package, voting against. I'm saying it as a vaccine for things we're expected to hear here this afternoon. Last Friday's royal decree is to comply with the word given. When last Friday I heard in the news that we were finally derogating the sun tax, among the other measures of the royal decree that have already been explained here this afternoon, I saw the images of Pedro Sánchez in Jumilla, visiting a photovoltaic plant and fulfilling his word with the bats, as we have begun to do and we will continue to do Friday after Friday. [[Applauds]] Because it's a little over a hundred days and a lot of what's deteriorated in the last seven years and a lot of what we have to run to get back to that lost time. That is why today I want to say that the Socialist Government is going to return Spain to the place where it had to be, to the place it deserves; but I also want to acknowledge, precisely today, all that work that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has done in the people - of course Hugo Morano, and the minister herself - who today hold positions of responsibility, but also our spokesman Pilar Lucio because it has been very and very good the work that has been done with the sector trying to design a different model than it was - because it is obsolete, we like it or not - and with which we have to face not only the global challenges of climate change, but also the local challenges as it happens on our land because they mean so many thousands of jobs and also wealth for the present. To conclude: in our country there are a thousand installations in front of the million! What's in Germany? I have Murcian friends, of my age, who were trained in the Region of Murcia and who today work in Germany. They are the objectives of the 2030 Agenda; we all have the obligation but I really ask you not only to be the objectives of a government or of some parties, as we have already shown in the various parliamentary initiatives, but of all, and of all, Mr Garaulet, indeed. You know I have great affection for you, but you sometimes mislead me, I don't know if you are going, if you are coming or where to catch them, you are for months vetoing the issue of strangulations - there are your amendments tabled, registered - and now you are the ones who most demand them, and you are vetoing the law of the Socialist Party and now you are the only ones who have made the law. [[Mr. Garaulet Rodriguez makes negative signs.-Applause]] I don't care, Mr Garaulet, with the affection I have for you, I say to you, Citizens' Lords, of course, of Podemos, of the People's Party, of all the groups in this House: we have a challenge and we have to live up to it, and if we don't want to do it for ourselves, let's do it for our children and our grandchildren because they won't forgive us. We have an obligation to live up to it and with this Government we will be. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Mrs Carreño Fernández has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u22	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my rejection of Mr Rufián's offensive words to my colleague Beatriz Escudero. [[Applauds]] My absolute rejection. I refuse. Secondly, I would like to welcome our President of the Regional Assembly and all the Members of the different groups of the Regional Assembly of Murcia and in particular the Members of the People's Party. The truth, Mrs González, is that I disagree with your words because Murcia is the great one known in Europe and outside of it, we are the garden of Europe, it seems a lie that you have not yet learned that we are leaders in exports. And they also say that more can be done. What are you guys gonna do? Because in just a hundred days they've stolen our AVE, they've stolen our water, and they've stolen our autonomous funding. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Hey, please!, be a little more legal with our Murcia Region. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal that is born in one of the leading regions to promote renewable energies and that is not by chance, it is thanks to the measures that the Government of the Murcia Region has promoted, to the measures that the People's Parliamentary Group has promoted in the Regional Assembly and it is thanks to the sector that has believed in the Murcia Region and that it has made today the first autonomous community of Spain in density of photovoltaic power installed per square kilometer; and it is also the one that the most clean and sustainable solar energy generates thanks to energy transport infrastructures. That is the reality because it has made it one of the first autonomous communities in photovoltaic energy production. And it is all thanks to the Government of the Murcia Region that it has been able to take advantage of the excellent geographical situation, which has been convinced that the proper use of renewable energy reduces the cost to businesses and households by fulfilling the commitment to reducing greenhouse gases; always, in addition, seeking legal certainty and the well-being of citizens. A government that has legislated and has also approved the Regional Strategic Plan to make the energy transition in the Murcia Region and always advocating not paying the toll associated with self-consumption. The People's Group says yes, yes to that the Region of Murcia and Spain continue to lead the promotion of renewable energies and therefore, Mr de Podemos, we see that the interim government that occupied La Moncloa has advanced by proposing an interim measure related to the proposal that we are discussing today, which, moreover, presents many contradictions; a proposal that the People's Group will amend to improve it. You can make proposals because the People's Party government has fixed the energy poverty created by the left. Now the electrical system is sanitized and you can. However, given the enormous difficulty that the Spaniards face with one of the highest bills of light in history, this provisional Government is now putting forward interim measures, and that is the reality. I have not heard any political group today denounce the brutal rise of the bill of light that citizens have to pay in this country, to none, because in just a hundred days Mr Sánchez has raised it by 10%. [[applause]] What's he gonna do in a year, if he gets here, ladies? Above all, because what the Government intends to do is to draw from the savings that the Government of the People's Party has made over the years to cover the hole in the reform it has raised. And it is very worrying that the Socialist Government is going to spend the accumulated surplus of revenue in the electricity sector to be applied to the misadjustments it is going to cause. You are going to spend the savings generated in recent years, plus with a lot of effort. But do you really know what you want? What they want is to cover with this fictitious decree, with an expiry date, the fiscal blow that they are going to give to companies and families: a brutal rise in taxes, such as the increases of the IRPF, to the income of savings, to the purchase of shares, of companies, of transactions, to the great technologies, to the collaborative economy, to the bank or to the diesel, ladies and gentlemen. That's the reality. You want to cover up the tax coup you're going to give this country, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, you raise hidden items that lead to a greater deficit in the electricity system. They trap the solitaire, so that a drop in power among consumers, as the left recommends, only transfers expenses from one citizen to another, does not lower costs. That is the reality; you do not tell the truth. Under current legislation, self-consumption of isolated facilities is not prohibited and is not taxed. They have a false reality; the real reality is that more than 95% of homes in this country do not pay any kind of toll. The key question is whether there will be enough money saved for all the expenses of this interim Government, in view of the expected hole. They did so with the Government of Zapatero; they left the electricity system on the verge of economic and financial collapse, with an accounted tariff deficit of more than EUR 25 billion, which, in addition, increased each year by EUR 10 billion and which, if no action had been taken, would have meant a tariff increase of more than 40% to all citizens. The failure of the Socialist Party's energy policy has been paid by consumers with the increase in the receipt of light by 70%; an insurmountable bill for many families hit by the crisis, to which the People's Party has helped through the social bonus. And there is a loss of competitiveness with the closure of more than 17,700 companies in four years of socialist government. Ladies and gentlemen, they could have made some history and analysed the evolution of recent years, because confidence is restored when we face difficulties, and the People's Party government has restored confidence. Thanks to the reform of the electricity sector, the tariff deficit has been reversed and since 2014 more than three consecutive years of surplus have been chained into the system, which has had a positive impact on families and businesses, the same surplus that you are going to spend, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, the People's Group is going to vote in favour of this bill because proposals can now be made through the administration of the People's Party. We are in favour of actions that promote investments in the generation of electricity through renewable energy and we want to continue working to develop self-consumption without giving our older people, pensioners, families or businesses the light. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, change your policy, do not waste the savings of the Spaniards and, of course, pay the historic debt that lies on the backs of the citizens, a debt that you have created for the disastrous energy policy. If we want to improve the lives of electric consumers, let us not allow a new bubble to be generated. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreño.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u24	We continue with the next item on the agenda, concerning the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Climate Change and Energy Transition. Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u25	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin, I want to give my support to my colleague Beatriz Escudero for the insults he received this morning from Congressman Rufián. [[Applauds]] Today we present the House's consideration of a proposal for a law of enormous relevance, the proposal for a law on climate change and energy transition. Today, there is a scientific consensus on the impact of human activity on the global climate change. According to the intergovernmental expert panel on climate change, the IPCC, greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fossil fuels or from land-use change have been unprecedented in the past eight hundred thousand years. Yesterday, the IPCC approved the special report on global warming of 1.5, known as SR1.5, which analyses the impacts of an increase in temperature of 1.5 degrees between 2030 and 2052 and the decarbonisation paths that countries must follow in order not to exceed this limit compared to what would be the two-degree limit. The conclusions are clear: there is a need to take swift, far-reaching and unprecedented action. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a country that is particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change - as has already been said here - due, among other things, to its geographical position. According to the IPCC, the growing pressure on water resources, particularly in the south, is among the first dangers for Europe. That is, we have irregular rainfall and, in addition, more torrential and destructive episodes with which the danger of flooding is aggravated. But, in addition, this precipitation pattern also deserts because it deteriorates soil quality. If that were not enough, we are a country with two archipelagos and we have to be aware of the drastic consequences that the rise of sea level can have on the island territories and on the Spanish coasts. Well, in recent years the People's Party has worked intensively on the policy of combating climate change, leaving behind a socialist policy of purchasing allowances to launch for the first time actions for the effective reduction of emissions in Spain that at the same time generated low-carbon economic activity and high-quality employment. In turn, action has been taken to adapt to the impacts of climate change, especially in key areas for Spain such as water resources, biodiversity and coasts. Ladies and gentlemen, today we want to go further. The People's Parliamentary Group, aware of the urgency of the challenge we face, presents this proposal for a law on climate change and energy transition with which through fifty-one articles, two additional provisions and six final provisions we want to contribute to making our planet a healthier place for current and future generations. Spain needs a regulatory framework commensurate with the developed countries in our environment. Today we present a text that is the result of the work of many that puts Spain at the forefront of the fight against climate change; a medium- and long-term legislative framework to ensure that the transition of the Spanish economy to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy is ordered; we are required by the Spanish and, in addition, by the Paris Agreement. It was precisely at that summit in 2015 that President Rajoy committed himself to drafting a climate change law. What happened next you and I know: a government in office, two general elections and a motion of censure that has interrupted all the work in progress. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that the effort was not small. The People's Party Government launched the drafting of the law with a clear will for dialogue with all concerned parties. An open and participatory process was launched with the idea of laying the foundations for a political consensus and ensuring broad social participation. To this end, an inter-ministerial working group was set up, ambitious days of discussion were held with more than four hundred experts working together to identify the contents of the law, a public consultation process was opened from which more than three hundred and fifty contributions emerged and the Commission for the Study of Climate Change in this House was set up, which became a legislative commission through which more than thirty experts went to deal with the future law. I must regret that this Commission has disappeared with the arrival of the Socialist Government. A group of experts in energy transition was also set up to analyse and make proposals for decarbonisation, a step ahead of the preparation of the integrated national energy and climate plans that we must submit to the European Commission before the end of the year and of which we do not yet know anything. This list also includes the roadmap for the diffused sectors up to 2020 to be introduced into this comprehensive planning. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you already have a lot of work done. Please don't waste it. This law is necessary - the minister herself recognized it yesterday - and today we are here asking for your consideration. Do not fall into the temptation to despise a text just because it is not yours. Let this House process this law, the fruit of a conscientious work of many months in which all of you have participated. You're asking why now. Because the work is already done; and we can improve it, but we have to start now so that this law will serve as the basis for the transformation we need. The minister herself asked us yesterday to speed up the action. I encourage you not only to promise, but to fulfill. We do not want what we met in 2011 when we arrived at the Government. We want to fulfil our European and international commitments. In 2011 Spain did not comply with the Kyoto Protocol. Thanks to a government of the People's Party we can say very loudly that Spain has complied with Kyoto I and is on its way and ready to comply with Kyoto II. Now it's up to you. But this law goes beyond that. This law paves the way for Spain to comply with the ambitious Paris agreements. This law is a stable institutional framework that includes the objectives, the tools needed to meet them and also relies on the efforts of all - public administrations, citizens and businesses - to move together in the transition towards a low-carbon and climate-resilient economic model. What are those goals? In the fifty-one articles that make up the initiative that we present to you, several objectives are proposed until 2030. The first is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 26 %. The second is to use renewable energy in the final consumption of energy by at least 32 %. The third is to improve energy efficiency and saving by at least 32.5%, bearing in mind the degree of interconnection with other Member States of the European Union. But ours is an ambition for the future and that is why we also set targets for 2050 with a reduction in emissions of at least 80%. What means does the proposed law propose to achieve these objectives? We propose integrated energy and climate plans as a tool for national strategic planning. These plans will be ten years old, will be presented to the European Union and will be evaluated on the basis of new international and European agreements and also on the basis of technological progress, the deployment of renewable energy and the progress of energy efficiency. The law proposes to continue working on a tool such as the National Climate Change Adaptation Plan and to have it updated by the end of 2019. We also need adaptation plans for all sectors, especially the most vulnerable, such as health, water and agriculture. We must also make an effort to know and raise awareness of the effects of climate change. That is why the law includes the obligation to publish periodic reports on its evolution and risks, as well as on policies and measures to reduce our vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a cross-cutting law and it counts and needs everyone's effort. The transformation to which we are called is a transformation of all economic sectors - transport, agriculture, energy, housing, water, tourism - as well as all social sectors - families, NGOs, universities, businesses, individuals - as well as all public administrations. This is why the law requires the autonomous communities to have an adaptation and mitigation plan by 31 December 2021, and the municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants will have to integrate in their General Urban Planning Plan the measures for adaptation to the main impacts and risks arising from climate change, especially in mobility, air conditioning and waste management. In the area of environmental taxation, a reform is proposed to improve the application of the polluter-pays principle and to include fiscal burdens for activities that increase greenhouse gas emissions and fiscal incentives for investments that contribute to emission reduction and adaptation to climate change. As you know, the Paris Agreement also includes an important novelty, climate finance. That is why this law states that all public administrations must allocate at least 20% of their annual budget to actions with a positive impact on the fight against climate change, and it is proposed that, once all the regulations in the Council of Ministers have been adopted, all public administrations integrate the climate change variable in terms of mitigation, adaptation and cost/benefit. In addition, all revenues from allowances auctions will be used to meet the objectives set out in this Act. Public administrations will have to set an example in hirings including in their specifications criteria for reducing emissions and carbon footprints, as well as the purchase and use of vehicles that drive the decarbonisation of our economy. Similarly, any legislation adopted by the Council of Ministers should take into account its impact due to climate change. In fact, and in this sense, the People's Parliamentary Group, through its representatives in the organs of this house, will request that the House be an exemplary administration in this, as we did in its day with the measurement of the carbon footprint of Congress thanks to a proposal by the People's Party. The law also requires the Banco de España to prepare every two years a report on the state of the Spanish economy and the financial system in the face of the risks and opportunities related to climate change, which will collect recommendations and will be published and forwarded to Congress. The law also urges companies to publish and measure their carbon footprint. Climate change is a complex reality in its analysis, as its effects include scientific, technological, social and economic elements. It is no coincidence that the Nobel Prize in Economics 2018 has just failed, in which two professors, Nordhaus and Romer, have been awarded for integrating climate change into economic analysis and technological innovations. Well, this law proposes the creation of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Observatory, a committee of independent and prestigious experts to monitor, advise, consult, inform and study policies and measures related to climate change and energy transition. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that the People's Parliamentary Group is well aware of how the transition to a low-carbon economy can affect the most vulnerable sectors and the most vulnerable population. The People's Party's climate change policy is a policy that goes hand in hand with economic development and employment. That is why this law proposes the development of a strategic plan on sustainable transition and employment. We need to identify the population and areas particularly affected by the effects of climate change and the effects of the transition to a low-carbon economy in order to establish the best measures that will enhance the economic and social recovery of certain regions or industrial sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is the greatest environmental and socio-economic challenge facing humanity in the twenty-first century; the Spaniards are aware of that. According to the last barometer of the Royal Elcano Institute, for the first time climate change appears as the number one priority in Spain's foreign policy and as the third concern with Spain's future, behind the labour market and the pension system. This is a law demanded by society as a whole; all sectors and all parties want a law that gives stability to the most important transition we are going to live as a global society. This law takes into account the contributions of the expert group, in which all the groups in this House were represented. We need a law that endures over time, that is not short-lived and that brings together as much consensus as possible, because our country deserves high attention. We present this initiative in order to dialogue with all political forces and to improve this law with the contributions of all. I hope that the present Government will not underestimate the work of so many experts who have contributed to its elaboration and, of course, that we are open to improvement in the parliamentary process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will support the consideration of this proposal for a law on climate change and energy transition, which opens the legislative path to the measures that Spain needs and which put an end to the unsettled proposals of the fundamentalism 'eco-colorance' parapetado in the Council of Ministers since last June. I repeat my speech at the previous plenary session, in which I defended a parliamentary initiative of the Forum that warned about the loss of Spanish energy sovereignty with the decarbonisation proposed by the Minister for the Ecological Transition, a decarbonisation behind which the desertification of the basins is hidden and with which it is intended to put an end to coal mining, ending the measures designed in Brussels in 2010 by another socialist, the European Competition Commissioner, Joaquín Almunia, and implemented during the phase of government of Rodríguez Zapatero. Spain needs measures to establish the balanced participation of coal as its own source of energy resources and the continuity of power generation plants, which, if closed, would cause the rise of both domestic and industrial bills and would irreparably damage the competitiveness of the electro-intensive industries, with irreversible destruction of jobs, vital for tens of thousands of families and large population regions. I say vitals because these families eat, eat and dine every day. The loss of jobs would be irreversible. Whole areas of population in Spain would be very affected. In Title V, and speaking of combating climate change, I would also like to refer to the chapter on research, development and innovation, which is fundamental, on which we have been insisting throughout the parliamentary term by promoting budgetary amendments to provide resources and investments for R & D+i which favour the reduction of polluting emissions in thermal power stations, amendments and budgets voted against by the Socialist Party in this House. In any case, we are faced with a consideration that seeks to correct a dangerous energy drift from the government of Pedro Sánchez and opens up the possibility of reorienting legislative decisions that have aroused social alarm, with dire economic and labour consequences. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u29	Eskerrik asko, president jauna. I want to begin by celebrating the People's Party's change of position on this issue. It has been years of climate change negationism, even with Mr Rajoy's cousin giving us lessons about the lie of climate change, and today, finally, as Saul of Tarsus, they fall off the horse and understand that climate change is a potential threat to the sustainability of life itself, to the sustainability of the planet itself. From there, little more positive we can point out; if we say that we share the phrase that determines the whole heading, which says that climate change is the greatest environmental and socio-economic challenge facing humanity in the twenty-first century, but then that will of amendment that the People's Party demonstrates here today, going from negationism to at least trying to see that climate change is a potential threat, remains in the epidermis of the problem, remains superficial. In any case, there is one consideration that might be asked. Probably the fall of the horse, the conversion, has been now and, therefore, it would be explained that since 2011 they have done nothing when they have been ruling to stop and eradicate the consequences of climate change; practically nothing. I will tell you with data so that this does not remain in an exchange of phrases where it is difficult to clarify who is right or not. Please explain to this House at some other time why emissions increased by 1.1 over 2013 in 2014; or why in 2015 they increased by 3.5 over 2014; or why in 2016 they increased by 1.6 over 2015. I could also explain why greenhouse gas emissions increased by 4.6 in 2017, the largest increase in the last 15 years. Is that the path of the People's Party to put an end to the devastating effects of climate change, to continue to increase the emission of greenhouse gases, to continue to rely on polluting energies, as they do, to continue to prevail over the energy sectors that rely on polluting energies? That is a bad way, and that in the text, although it seems that it wants to have an amendment, remains in short time, not to say that in almost nothing, because I believe that the People's Party has been bad news for the climate, and I say it with absolute sincerity. I'll give you an example. You talk about the need for cost/benefit, to take into account cost/benefit analyses when making investments with environmental impact, but, for example, in an international electricity interconnection network such as Gatika and Cubnezais, which runs through our territory, with EUR 2 billion of investment you do not propose that there is cost/benefit; you have not done so by governing and you do not even now. They are far from what the experts themselves say in the international panel, in the IPCC, about the lack of ambition of governments. I'll finish with a question. Probably - and I thank you for at least thinking that there is a problem - the problem is not just that, but surely what the then Minister of Energy, Mr Soria, said, remains a constant in the policies that the People's Party thinks, and that is that the electric companies bring the decrees ready to sign to the offices of the ministries. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to reproach the People's Party for the conversion in favour of climate change policies. What we can blame him for is that at his stage of government this was not a compromise. A few weeks ago Eurostat began to publish data from all the countries of the European Union on climate change, and it is clear that Spain does not appear in any of the subjects, and in some of the data Spain shows problems. The intensity of energy use in our economic growth continues to be relevant, and the weight of hydrocarbons has increased in the total amount of energy spent in the Spanish State. Therefore, the concrete balance sheet is not good. Furthermore, when you read the initiative put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group, you are convinced that this is a text based on the work that had been done at its governmental stage. It seems legitimate to me, but perhaps what we would have expected from the rest of the groups is that, in these years of People's Party governments, this bill would have come to us as a bill. They have mismanaged this matter, they are late, but moreover, from a strictly Catalan perspective, it turns out that the first legislative initiative in the Spanish State in this matter, which was the Climate Change Law, promoted by Councillor Josep Rull, today unjustly imprisoned as a political prisoner, you appealed to it, that law of the Parliament of Catalonia. Today they cannot ask us to take this legislative initiative into consideration, when they blocked this pioneering initiative of the Catalonian Parliament from the government. In this regard, he again referred to the Socialist Parliamentary Group the need for the Government to withdraw its appeal to the Constitutional Court, which the Government of the People's Party had submitted in connection with Catalan law. The Socialist Party in Catalonia voted in favour of this initiative and was agreed. We have therefore taken steps towards this clear commitment of Catalan society in this area. It is clear that the Government must also be required to demand that this repeated announcement by the Minister for the Ecological Transition, Mrs Ribera, be made soon. There are uncertainties about the length of the legislature. It would be a shame for the legislature to pass without the Government introducing that bill. I therefore hope that we will soon have a bill in the House and that we will be able to discuss in depth a regulatory framework for combating climate change and energy transition. We'll be careful. In any case, today our vote will be against the initiative of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we have started the day with energy issues and the truth is that the proposal that follows has a direct relation to it, but goes beyond purely energy. Without a doubt, the question we ask ourselves is: Do we need policies against climate change? Of course, yes. Do we need a law on climate change or how to combat climate change? Yeah. Is this the best law to combat climate change? I'm sorry, but no. Very recently the UN expert group issued a report that really makes us tremble, makes us tremble by the situation it describes and by the measures that we urgently need to take if we are to avoid irreparable damage caused by climate change. According to the report issued by the UN experts, temperatures are expected to rise to 1.5 degrees between 2030 and 2052 if global warming continues to advance at its current rate and a series of measures are not put in place to prevent it. Limiting it and taking action will already have clear benefits for people and natural ecosystems and can be accompanied by the consolidation of a more sustainable and equitable society, and we have less and less time. This report indicates that in 2100 - however much some give whatever happens because they will no longer be - the sea level rise would be 10 centimeters lower with a global warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius instead of 2 degrees Celsius. That is, from the perspective and as the question is now, by that date the temperature may rise by 2 degrees. If so, the consequences will be disastrous. So let us do everything we can to be even stronger than what the Paris Agreement requires and make it 1.5 instead of 2. The report indicates that the objectives agreed in Paris to reduce emissions are not sufficient and that the overall net emissions of man-made carbon dioxide should be reduced by approximately 45% compared to 2030. The report focuses on renewables and says that renewables should provide between 70 and 85 % of electricity for 2050 and that they currently account for only 25 %. The use of fossil fuels we all know what it produces, and the reduction of them is also fundamental. This is what the UN experts say, but unfortunately we were all aware that this would happen if the appropriate measures were not taken. The international legislation signed by the Spanish State contains the binding Kyoto and Paris agreements, which require certain measures to be taken. Obviously, as has been pointed out by others who have preceded me, here was created a commission, there were experts, panels and all that work then ended in a fundamental material. What has the People's Party done? When he has left the Government, he has appropriated that material as if it were his own and has submitted this bill. But is this a proposal for a law? Well, no. Unfortunately, this is a strategic plan, a global picture of what should be done, what are the objectives and where we have to aim to combat climate change, but it is not a bill, it is not a bill, it is not a legal text, when, surely, what we need is a legal text. You present a comprehensive plan with different titles: decarbonisation and energy transition, adaptation to climate change, collaboration and coordination between public administrations, climate taxation, cross-cutting measures, energy transition for reducing vulnerability to climate change, social measures related to transition and tools for policy monitoring. All of this is raised, but this is not a legal text, this is not a bill. I don't know if he didn't give them time to prepare the bill and that's why they didn't introduce it or because of a question of vanity, they said: we're going to introduce it, let's have what we have, to be the first. I already know that a parliamentary group has all the right in the world - I would be missing more - to present a legislative initiative, but since this legislative proposal does not bring together what we would need legally to combat climate change, I urge the Socialist Party Government to present a bill that brings together what we need legislatively to combat climate change and goes a little further than the intentions, objectives and sort of anxieties that this text that the People's Group has presented to us, which is rather a meta-legal propository instrument that, on the basis of its characteristics, would require a format other than that of a law; it is rather the culmination of a technical reflection than of a legislative text. On the other hand, the eminently technical nature requires the participation of experts in this field for their correct approach. Moreover, if it were a bill, it would have an economic memory and a number of other documents that should precede it, which in this case does not happen. Therefore, either we are clear and firm and we are doing something to achieve that which the UN experts have at least established so that the consequences of climate change are not irreversible or we are going to have a very bad time, especially for future generations. A piece of legislation solves that? Certainly not, but it is fundamental and necessary. Therefore, since they are no longer in the Government, I tell the current Government to be effective, to be consistent with what it said and to present a text, a bill against climate change and the energy transition. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. As the PNV Member has already pointed out, the latest report of the UN intergovernmental group of experts on climate change, published yesterday, calls for unprecedented changes and calls for a rapid energy transition, within twelve years, to limit the damage to global warming, which can be disastrous. According to the sustainability professor and member of the group, Peter Newman, as a planet we are on the edge of the precipice. Indeed, the level at which we are now and the urgency call for any proposed legislation on climate change and energy transition to ensure and facilitate the achievement of the international commitments already made by the State, both in the context of the Paris Agreement and of European climate and energy policies. In any case, this will must be translated into actions that are truly committed to a model of sustainable economy that is necessary to combat climate change. During these years of PP government it has become very clear that you have wanted to extend your neoliberal approach to privatization and mercantilisation. It is an approach that prioritises the private interests of the great heritages and oligopolies over the common interest, and we are talking about a matter of common interest. You start from a productive and speculative view of ecosystems and give them the mere value of resources. If not, where does this desire to deploy during its mandate reforms that have involved, for example, deregulation and protection of the natural environment, thus favoring processes of privatization of natural resources? Its model is frontally opposed to a model whose basic principle is sustainability. Therefore, your proposal does not arouse any confidence, rather quite the opposite, the facts and not the words speak for themselves. Now they desperately seek consensus. They now realize that the energy transition process needs to be accelerated, that a model of energy sovereignty based on renewable energy is needed to replace the hydrocarbon model. But we arrived late and bad. Its greatest concern now is to prioritise electricity interconnection with Europe, but the fact that we still rely too much on the energy model of hydrocarbons and lack a real stake in renewable energies that would allow us to move towards energy sovereignty makes us mere purchasers of energy. We've done it late and wrong. But what have your facts been so far? Look, the polemic imposed on the sun that you implanted brutally braked a self-consumption-free route that allowed you to generate, store and consume clean energy and assumed an ideal way to involve citizens in the energy transition. That's really your policy, these are really your gestures. [[The lady]] Even the Balearic Government recently submitted to Congress a bill to declare the Spanish jurisdictional waters a hydrocarbon-free zone. There is a research project that foresees prospecting at sea with compressed air cannons that could affect fauna, especially cetaceans, between Formentera, Ibiza, Mallorca and Cabrera and whose results yearn for several oil tankers. The State Executive, however, has vetoed this proposal. It is a real contradiction to continue to protect a model based on hydrocarbons in order to benefit very particular private interests, when we are talking about changing a great paradigm such as the promotion of renewables themselves. The facts and not the words speak for themselves again. You have also echoed the importance of the effects of climate change on water management, on water resources themselves. Indeed, the subcommission's report on water policy proposals in line with climate change challenges has collected different proposals on what the problems are going to be and what the major water management challenges are going to be in this country. And what were their answers? Basically, to expand irrigation with proposals that they only do is to perpetuate an erroneous model of hydrological management, based on the demand for unlimited irrigation growth that is above even the real capacities of the basin itself; a water stress in the form of periodic droughts that will be accentuated by climate change. The answer, therefore, remains the same as before. The same proposal of law on the transfer of 19,99 cubic hectometers from the hydrographic demarcation of the Red, Odiel and Stone rivers to the hydrographic demarcation of the Guadalquivir that we are debating these days is an example. In fact, the main objective of this proposal is not the preservation of the Doñana aquifer, although it may seem so, it is the justification of a plan for the viability of new waterings that seeks to amnestize those illegal wells and farms that have been proliferating without any kind of control. Therefore, we continue with the same dynamic, with the same way of working and ignoring what climate change is warning us. The same is true of the reduction of the flow allocated to the final stretch of the Ebro, which does not guarantee the survival of the Ebro Delta but rather the expansion of new irrigations. Are you seeing how there really is no clear positioning in that sense and one thing is the declaration of intentions and the other the actual facts? We will have to get used to recognizing, in this sense, that there are no surplus basins. It could put many more examples that highlight the lack of environmental sensitivity of the People's Party Government. I repeat, the facts and not the words speak for themselves. On the other hand, as has already been mentioned, the former minister committed herself at the end of January this year to preparing the preliminary draft of a future law with broad social participation, to setting up an inter-ministerial working group, the Commission itself for the study of climate change, to hold ambitious days of debate with more than four hundred experts working together to identify the contents of the law, to open a broad process of public consultation, to set up a committee of experts on energy transition and to meet with political groups. Here we are, waiting. In conclusion, you propose a law with a proposal for minimums, a statement of very unambitious intentions, which exposes your lack of real will to seriously address the change in the energy and environmental paradigm in which we are inevitably immersed. It gives the impression that with this proposal what you seek is to limit to the low maximalist proposals and propose the transcendent decisions that we must take in very little time. We cannot allow time to pass, but neither can we allow it to be lost in a proposal like this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u36	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Undoubtedly, climate change is the greatest threat we face as a country, as a nation. It is a threat that directly affects the health of our citizens, threatens our ecosystems, our security and our prosperity and economic development. No country or citizen is free from the consequences of this, which are the result of our way of consuming, living, producing and economic development based on fossil fuels as a source of energy. More than a political debate, we are facing a moral debate, that of the obligation to maintain life on a planet we share with other species, that of the dilemma of not making present and future humanity pay the very high costs of environmental degradation. The world has already become aware of this, and so it happened in Paris, where 195 countries signed a commitment to deal with this problem, reduce greenhouse gases and keep the average global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius with respect to the pre-industrial era. All scientific studies agree to point out the Mediterranean region as one of the most vulnerable areas on the planet in the face of climate change. Most countries in our environment have been working on it for a long time, but in Spain we are very late. There have been climate change laws and standards in the UK since 2008, in Scotland since 2009, in Denmark since 2014, in Germany since 2014 and in France since 2015. Even here in Spain, many regional parliaments, such as the Catalan, the Balearic Islands, the Mortian Parliament or the Parliament of Navarre, either already have climate change laws or are in process. The PP in the government behaved irresponsibly. After seven years of government, despite Mr Rajoy's promises, despite Mrs Tejerina's continued announcements, despite the unanimous demand of most of the groups in this House, who have been doing so since 2011 - of course, we did not count on Mr Nadal - despite all this, they were unable or unwilling to bring in a climate change law. We have all witnessed in this House how Mr Nadal told us in Parliament that the climate change law would not be introduced until European legislation was ready. He pointed out that the laws have always been done this way in this country and that the way to do them would not be changed now. We were told that without energy and climate packages there could be no climate change law and that we also had a problem with the electrical interconnection that created a problem for the development of this law. Now, bringing this law, you want to show us a sensitivity to the environment and the fight against climate change that you have never had. [[Applauds]] You are still the PP of the paralysis of renewable energies in this country, of the obstacles to self-consumption; you are the party that put a sun tax, of the cuts to photovoltaics, that ruined thousands of small savers, of the lack of energy planning and that has made our country a champion of the European Union's environmental warnings and sanctions. [[Applauds]] You are the People's Party, to which the big companies of this country have seen themselves in the need to demand through a manifesto a road map to direct their investments, which in these sectors have to be planned years in advance. There is no doubt that the economies leading the transition will be the first to take advantage of the opportunities that decarbonization offers and those that will benefit most from it. New jobs and investments, new markets and opportunities will be created, a new impetus for innovation and entrepreneurship will be possible. It is an opportunity that the Spanish economy cannot miss, and you have wasted precious time on this country. [[Applauds]] They had eight years in the Government with all the means to submit a bill with all the guarantees, instead, two days after being thrown from the Government, this document is taken out of which drawer is not known and recorded. It is now, when they are in opposition, when they bring us this law that fails to meet the three main demands that have almost unanimously made us all experts who have passed through the Climate Change Commission: to be ambitious, to be consensual and to be participatory. Does this proposed law guarantee us that with it we will manage to keep the temperature increase below 2 degrees? What does the National Climate Council think? What do you think of the Cedex Hydrographic Studies Centre? What about the group of experts you created? What does the Council of State think? Should we not have its reports in the law that seeks to change the basic pillars on which our economy and our society are based? Entering into the analysis of the proposition, forgetfulness is more striking than proposals. It does not introduce precautionary or preventive principles; in the field of energy, they are limited to brushing without taking into account the enormous dimension of energy policy; there is no consideration of self-consumption and distributed generation or of the costs of the electricity system and how they will be assumed by consumers. We are not talking about biofuels, we are not talking about fisheries or agriculture, and we have the European Union's first tonnage fleet. We are not talking about tourism, and we are the world's first holiday destination. There is no talk of biodiversity, and Spain is the country with the most biodiversity in the whole European Union; 54% of all species of European flora and fauna are in our territory. We are not talking about the sea, and we have 6000 kilometres of coastline and we are the second European country with the most marine protected area. Everything was devoted to ten-year plans, which would also be royal decrees, i.e. without the rank of law, without the capacity for anything substantial and, of course, without the intervention of Parliament. But, above all, the most worrying thing is how they treat science in their proposals. Everything we do about climate change must be supported by independent scientific-technical analysis and this initiative leaves science in a corner and without means. You are proposing to create an observatory for climate change and energy transition that will make follow-up reports outside of the policies and decisions that are being taken, behind the scenes and, moreover, without means. I literally read: The expenses arising from the operation of the observatory and from the preparation of studies will in no case entail an increase in public expenditure and its members will receive subsistence allowance for the performance of their duties. This proposal, far from putting science at the centre, the margin. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain urgently needs a state pact for energy and the fight against climate change in which we are all, stable, ambitious, consensual and participatory, but above all effective. This, ladies and gentlemen, is everyone's job. It makes me blush that the People's Party should register such an initiative, with the speed that it did, days after leaving the Government, and it does not seem that they have the general interest in the mind or that with this initiative they can make forget their indolence and paralysis while in the Government. Gentlemen of the People's Party, when they might not want to; now it looks like a wish and I can't. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u38	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u39	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. This motion for a law should, in our view, embarrass the People's Party; of course, for us and for us it is unworthy of this House. The People's Party is making a practical demonstration of what is not to be done in politics, particularly in parliamentary politics, all that people were so distant and angry with the political forces of bipartisanism, all that they were yelling at: They don't represent us. I'm telling you. First, the People's Party is in government for seven years. The PP, with its president and parliamentary spokesman at the head, repeatedly mocks and mocks the gravity of climate change. While the PP governs, not only is nothing done in this area, but progress is impeded and legislation against it: sunbathing, blocking renewables, etc. Act 2: The Government has an obligation to make a climate change law; it is obliged to make a law. The law is applied to the interests of lobbies in this matter, especially of electric oligopoly, and its preliminary draft law does not comply with the internationally required minimums. They embarrass us again, and after seven years they do not introduce the bill. Third act: the People's Party loses the government. Immediately, fifteen days after losing the Government, the People's Parliamentary Group presented its preliminary draft law as a legislative proposal, which they did not submit when they had an obligation, probably taking advantage of the work of the officials of the ministry, something made-up, so that it would seem that they were interested in the subject and would not bother anyone. Fourthly, the People's Party today rises to this rostrum and makes a mockery of the importance of climate change, brings it to a parliamentary seat and asks the government to do exactly what the People's Party did not do when it ruled and wants to block now from the opposition. And since we are, I'm going to start by setting Galicia's example. This same week, just yesterday, we saw serious forest fires in Galicia again; yesterday we had more than half of the country on maximum alert for fire risk. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in October and, like last year, there are again fires in Galicia. According to a report by MeteoGalicia's technicians, the increase in fire risk in Galicia is among the highest in southern Europe. Climate change is already here and it touches the Iberian peninsula in full. Some interested opinions try to place the problem in something distant, distant. No, it is now and it is here, it affects our agriculture, it affects our fisheries, it affects shellfish, tourism, rural depopulation; it affects all of us. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, are the European exponents of Trump's negationism, the champions in budget cuts to the games dedicated to the fight against climate change; the same ones who have condemned the international ridiculousness of this country for more than a thousand days of the validity of the sun's tax. In energy policy, the People's Party has made burning land policy: obsessed with the installation of renewable energies, against the democratization of the energy sector and favouring the concentration of the market; absent and submissive in the debate in the European framework or supporting against all technical reason the hydraulic fracture. We've been on a road to disaster for the past seven years. They have also generated, with their reforms of the electric social bond and the widespread rise in electricity prices, a throttle of energy poverty. In this country - not according to us, but according to the energy regulator - the transport is overpaid, the distribution is overpaid, that is, here all the actors charge and it is the citizen who pays. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, if we wanted to get to the bottom of his proposal, we would have to reject it flatly for not containing the basic minimums to be discussed. I'm going with some basic questions. The proposal does not include something as basic as an energy efficiency plan that includes, among other measures, the annual energy rehabilitation of a minimum housing. It does not include that the priority in the operation of hydraulic power plants is to support the integration into the electricity system of non-manageable renewable energies; there is no national waste strategy; there are no measures to promote the circular economy; there is no industrial plan to promote the material efficiency of the economy. They do not incorporate mitigation measures in the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. Nor do they set out any measures to incorporate climate change scenarios into water policy. Ultimately, the law does not, in our view, provide for the minimum issues that make it a debatable proposal. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, talking to the government in this case. We and we, despite having a proposed climate change law worked with all actors and already registered, are willing to push for a public discussion and debate, and for us to have a climate change law, a rule that meets the needs of this country, welcoming the Minister's firm commitment to open this debate with care. We take the opportunity to make a recommendation to the minister: do not keep the papers in the drawers, like your predecessors, until the last moment. It does not intend to monopolize, exploit or make profitable a debate that is of all and of all, and a rule that is essential for us to move forward. As we said in the climate change mobilizations in Copenhagen quite a few years ago: there is no planet B, there is no planet B, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much; thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u40	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u41	Thank you very much, President. We all know well the first sentence of the Cicero, so quoted. We could use it perfectly today with you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, but I wanted to remind you of the following two, which in question cast the magnificent speaker in the Senate of Rome: How long must we still be toy of your fury? Where will the raptures of your unbridled boldness stop? That is why today we ask them: when will they accept their new situation? How long before they pass the wrath of their mourning? [[Applauds]] Because bringing this bill on the part of the People's Party demonstrates to what extent your political cynicism comes, and to what extent anger governs your actions in this House, each and every day since you are in opposition. After promising in Paris and Marrakech at COP21 and 22 that the development of a climate change law would be promoted, after committing yourself to submit a draft to public consultation by December 2017, after failing to fulfil all these promises, you, three weeks after losing the Government of Spain, registered this bill. You are bringing to a new level the manifest inability to exercise a worthy opposition to the Government of Spain. And we believed that from his right we had already seen everything in his past mandates as opposition, but we reiterate that they never learn, they are always the same, there is destruction on their part only when they are in opposition. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala!]] What blacks out this proposal, at least, is the People's Party's total lack of commitment to environmental democracy in our country. That on the one hand, and on the other, reminds us of the disaster that was for Spain and the Spaniards the constant lack of coordination and struggle between the environment and energy portfolios of the Rajoy government. Let us remember when former Minister Nadal said in parliamentary office that there was no rush to pass the law, while former Minister Tejerina was not tired of setting dates for her supposed progress. As in a bad imitation of the Peniminella duo, they had us all busy with their public defenses over a couple of years. Very relevant for what concerns us today were the statements of Álvaro Nadal that the logical thing - and several spokesmen have mentioned it - would be to have European legislation first and then to do the Spanish one. Three months after losing the Government, he and his group have put logic behind them, they want to try to occupy the political space in the most demagogic way possible and nothing seems to stop them. The proposition in addition to being cheating, mediocre and extemporaneous has multiple inconsistencies, suffers from many failures, and shows that it is the heir of this conflict that we now remember. The text, for example, and not to reiterate to other speakers, does not address the transformation of the energy model, which is essential in the context of the current fight against climate change. That is to say, the worst tics of his previous Government are perfectly reducible in the proposal they present. That Government, which in its previous mandate had sent to the Constitution rules and standards, such as, for example, a very good rule from Catalonia on climate change, and that the Government was obviously studying its withdrawal. The decarbonisation targets set out in Title I, for example, are clearly unambitious, vague, and certainly do not serve to comply with the Paris agreements. The vagueness with which it deals with issues such as the National Energy and Climate Plan or environmental taxation is another example of that heritage that we were quoting from them, and that all the groups that preceded me have reminded them of. In both cases these are elements that should have been developed under the People's Government and this never moved a finger, and as we have seen, far from rectifying that perspective, from the opposition they intend to abound in them. It has had to be the current Minister of Ecological Transition who is sprinting to meet the terms that the European Union established and demanded, in order to try to avoid fines that were around the corner for our state. And it is necessary to have - and several spokesmen have reiterated - little shame to record a text three weeks after losing the Government, a text that was evidently illuminated from the work of the Public Administration for the Spanish Executive. Therefore this text is not from the PP, it is drawn up under the baton of a government. So much so that their state heritage is so firmly believed that everything is theirs and the rest are police officers in their institutions, that they took a text of all elaborated with money and time from the Administration of all to use it for their own partisan uses. That's what the PP believes, that this and that all of Spain is its cortijo, and what all the groups have come today is to remind them that it is not so. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are bringing noise and chaos here today, because this is the only thing that you can bring to Spanish policy today. They want to cover up the shame of the inaction of two former ministers who despised the fight against climate change in Spain, leaving a terrible legacy. They want to upset the normal processing of a real government bill that has done more in months than you have done in years with absolute majorities. [[Applauds]] And I'm done. Those who have never believed in the fight against climate change, who have greatly harmed all Spaniards in energy and environment, cannot and do not deserve to be pardoned in this House today, taking into consideration a text in which they never believed in a struggle they never wanted to give. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u43	Let us move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the enactment of a family support law. Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to ask for your support this afternoon for an initiative that has a lot in mind, but above all a lot in the future. At the moment, the future is worrying, and we need to transform it to drive a new social scenario, presided over, after long years of crisis, by hope. In this sense, the non-law proposal that my group has tabled is part of our conviction that the family is the social cell and is the indispensable engine of a society with a vocation of prosperity. It is the key to contributing and improving our society. Ladies and gentlemen, the last few years have not been easy. From different points of view, we have tried to find solutions to a context of enormous complexity, the derivatives of which have affected each and every citizen. Today, after overcoming the crisis thanks to the determined impetus of the People's Party Government, it is urgent to focus on one of the groups that have suffered the most from the crisis: families. Families have sustained society with their effort and sacrifice, flying the banner of resistance to adversity, unemployment and lack of resources. Therefore they are not a axis of the present, but a backbone of the future, because there is no possible future without strong and solid families. That is why the support of the State is essential; a support that is material transcends the mere material to focus on the most important: understanding and supporting its social role. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years the People's Party Government has implemented with remarkable success a series of support plans for families seeking to protect and protect this group. Thus, the National Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents, the National Plan of Action for Social Inclusion or the Comprehensive Family Support Plan were plans that together exceeded, with almost 230 measures, the €16 billion of funding. However, with the motion of censure, these strategic lines are at risk, whose effectiveness in supporting families was beyond doubt, weakening their effectiveness and consolidation. That is why we in the People's Parliamentary Group want the Government to join this initiative, whose significance goes beyond ideologies to focus on nuclear: support for families. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about seven vertebrate axes. First, specific support for families with children with disabilities or with rare diseases. They are families that face not only high economic costs, but also health costs, and for which we propose among other measures that acquire the status of large general family those families with a child with disabilities. Secondly, the recognition to a greater extent of the large families, a collective that in a context of population decline bets on generosity and surrender, and that nevertheless faces many bureaucratic obstacles, without forgetting the low incentives and fiscal stimuli. More attention should be paid to the reform of the People's Party of 2015, and, among other issues, the granting of the status of a large family of special categories from the fourth child. Thirdly, the protection of single-parent families - a growing group - who are alone confronted with the upbringing of their children and who need maximum support. Fourthly, the promotion of birth support measures from the impulse of motherhood. It's no use thinking about the family if we don't stimulate motherhood, and if we don't bet that more and more young people decide to have more children. It is therefore necessary to continue with the improvements in taxation applied to the family, such as those included in the 2018 General State Budgets of the People's Party, as well as with the revision of the concept of family unity in relation to economic aid. We need to protect pregnant women, creating a national protection network so that women who want to be mothers and are in a difficult situation have greater economic and psychological support. Fifthly, to deploy measures to make reconciliation a fact and a shared upbringing an objective reality that favors the growth of our children. It is essential to support families in situations of vulnerability and social exclusion, which face the extraordinary challenge of ensuring the sustainability of a family environment in a context of serious difficulty. Finally, our initiative aims to strongly promote co-responsibility in family life and to ensure the role of parents in the education of children, including also the family perspective in schools, as the People's Party at the time established the obligation to assess the impact of the family and children on legislative projects. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. The family is the only element that puts society at risk, and we must push it forward and consolidate it, because it is the present that ends up determining our future. Each time has its challenges for the family, and our time at this time demands that we assume no doubt the support of the State for the family. That is why I ask you to support this proposal, not of law, which is not against anyone, but in favour of everyone, which seeks not confrontation, but consensus, a consensus that exceeds us and extends from the autonomous communities to the third sector. Families ask us for support, and today we have the opportunity to give back to them everything they do for society with a law like the one we ask for in this initiative, which recognizes the rights of families beyond those that are recognized to the people who make them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u45	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group is speaking, which will also, in this turn, first and foremost, set out Mr Martínez Oblanca's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. I cannot waste the opportunity offered by the debate on this non-law proposal by the People's Group, on the enactment of a law to support families, expressing my vote in favour and at the same time reflecting the importance for an autonomous community such as Asturias, one of the oldest regions in Europe, of establishing a birth promotion plan that corrects the demographic bleeding that leads us year after year to the loss of population. The demographic challenge certainly requires urgent action. Indeed, the specific creation of a government commissioner following the January 2017 Conference of Presidents has to be complemented by a bill that allows for the ordering, updating and expansion of support, because the family is the basic pillar of the welfare state, an irreplaceable source of personal protection, and also the natural environment for the growth and education of minors and the care of the elderly. We would like to see this mandate given to the Government as soon as possible, because we believe that from the State administration there must be an impetus given to the rest of the administrations to tackle a policy of decisive, nuanced, sounding and unequivocal support that would allow the trend described at the beginning of my intervention to be reversed as soon as possible and that would provide stability and resources to the family policy that is being carried out in Spain. Since the Forum, we believe it is essential to place and keep this issue at the centre of politics, and we therefore feel that the Government should assume this parliamentary mandate in order to forward a bill to support families in the shortest possible time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u47	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start by thanking the initiative and welcoming it to this debate which speaks about the present and future of an institution which, in our view, is a basic cell for our society. If I had to put some but I would say that for us it remains a little short, because although the exhibition says that it has already been drawn up and we have a national plan, that we have a strategic plan, that we have a comprehensive plan, I believe that the format and content have been limited, and that we should have put forward a proposal for a law directly; indeed, there is a great deal of work done that many amendments have been tabled, which I recommend that they be incorporated for the sake of that consensus. But as I say, welcome. The family is an institution that must be protected, promoted and supported, and when I say supported I mean funded. The family is the first step to frame the human and the social; a community of affection where we learn the social value of fatherhood and motherhood, of fraternity between older and younger brothers, also solidarity - within it our first historical memory develops - and a transcendent vision of our own existence, who so desires. We believe that it is a necessary social good, and ultimately a school of civics, the first school where one learns that one is not alone, that we all depend on everyone. In fact, the values we reproduce in our Spanish Constitution are but a mirror in many cases of what we are in the family, values such as justice, freedom, order, equality, critical sense, authority, norms, solidarity, pluralism, respect. We agree with you that the State must renounce social engineering by pretending to supply or correct the role that this institution is called upon to play. We will support his proposal, and since it is a non-legislative proposal it would be good if, among all of us, and with so many initiatives within the amendments, we could, in the interests of that consensus, seek a compromise that would include most of them, which I believe are successful in many cases. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had come to this House today and did not know that you have been ruling this country for the past few years, I would also believe many of the things you have told us. With you in the Government Spain had the lowest birth rate in the last forty years, less than nine children per thousand inhabitants. So when we talk about family we should also talk about those things, and about the mistakes we have made to get to this point. If we talk about family and protecting the family, we must ask ourselves why young people do not emancipate and stay with their parents; we must ask ourselves why the construction of parallel lives, with or without a couple, by young people today is much more difficult than for young people 30 years ago; we must ask ourselves why when they can leave their home they have no children. We also find the answer that life for young people today is much more difficult than some think. That is why we are going to join that initiative, although we believe that we can improve it. We have always claimed, since we are in this House, that the dependent child benefit that the Government grants and that is transferred to the territorial administrations is not enough, that 20 euros a month is not what separates a family that has difficulty reaching the end of the month from a family that does not have them. That is why we are asking, as we have always done, for aid to be raised from EUR 20 to EUR 100 per dependent child for those families suffering from severe poverty, severe poverty. That does give opportunities, that does improve the quality and education of children within and outside families. I look forward to the answer to this amendment, and then we will appreciate my group's position on the initiative. Thank you very much and congratulations.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u51	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u52	Thank you, President. Gentlemen of the PP, this is the GNP of forgiveness, and I say it is the GNP of forgiveness because you present a battery of measures in which it seems that you are manifesting that purpose of amendment, a purpose of amendment of what might have been and was not, and it was not because you did not. We therefore understand that you are asking for forgiveness for your years of government, and of absolute majority that you have had, in which you have not specifically supported children with rare diseases and disabilities; in which you have not recognized that special family category that you claim now; in which you have not protected single-parent families as they should; in which you have not protected or recognized LGBTI families; in which you have not promoted motu proprio parental leave because we have had to push them; and in which you have not properly encouraged the reconciliation of family and work life, among other things because you have blocked the shared custody law that we have been asking for for a lot of time. [[Applauds]] Look, we in Citizens are not spiteful; we are not resentful, but we are not idiots. And as memory is labile I will remind you of some of the issues that seem to be forgotten when you present this non-law proposition. First of all, you are indeed asking for protection and support for families with children with disabilities. I'll put a button on them. The first lack of commitment of the People's Party to families with disabilities can be seen, for example, in the handling of universal accessibility. I will remind you that in 2013 the consolidated text of the rights of persons with disabilities came out, and in that text there is a commitment that by 2017 they had to enable and put the whole issue of universal accessibility not only of public buildings, but in the Administration and in means of transport. I'm talking about 2017, you had absolute majority. The reform has not yet been made. Smaller, rare diseases, for example. As the last Health Committee shows, where you agree with the Socialist Party, accomplices in this, inequity, and they force my parliamentary group to lower the demands for families of children with rare diseases; then they do a transactional, and in the end they abstain, something completely unheard of. [[Applauds]] Another request for repentance. You talk about giving the special large family status from the fourth child. They have plagiarismed us with our proposal of law, but they have plagiarismed us badly, because we also ask that this category be given not only to marriages, but also to couples in fact, because we understand from Citizens that families are plural and diverse realities, and that all have to be contemplated. You continue with the specific certification for single-parent families. If you really want to help them, you will accept our amendment, because it is not only an economic issue; it is a question of these families, who actually need special help, being able to access, for example, things as normal as having help in choosing their children's educational centre. Also, for example, you continue to talk about birth support measures. I have to tell you that here they did something, we encouraged them and pushed them to put a 1000 euros discount on the IRPF for support to children's schools. Let us hope that Sanchez's party will respect it, because after the announcement made by Minister Montero that he will not give to the mothers, who have had to quote above what they owe, which he owes to them until two years from now, we are deeply concerned, but in the end. You are also talking about equalizing paternity and maternity leave. They have not been very wrong here, because, of course, we, the lords of Citizens, have forced them to extend paternity leave from two to five weeks. Indeed, I would like to repeat that in the General Budgets of the State neither the Socialist Party nor the Podemos Members supported it. [[Applauds]] Finally, you end up demanding that the Government take measures to promote the reconciliation of family and working life. Don't make more of peace in the world. They simply support the law that we have presented in support of the family and in co-responsibility, and above all it has been a shame because they have had the opportunity to remove the law of shared custody and have not done so. Finally, that you have shown some pain of sins and we are pleased with it; but we are concerned that you are coming to the Sánchez government with your purpose of amendment, because we already see that the family is not what concerns you most and that motherhood, as Montero has said, is no longer a concern to you. And finally, we malice ourselves that after you have done it so badly for so long, you will pass, as you continue to present PNL like these, a legislature of quite penance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u53	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u54	Good afternoon. I do not know if it is penance, what it seems, after governing this country for seven years and coming to present this GNP, is at least a correction in every rule. And I say that it is a rectification in every rule, pointing out an aspect that did not go unnoticed to the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea in the statement of reasons that you make. You make a statement of reasons for trying to carry the inks, so to speak, of the poverty of families, particularly of child poverty, at a certain time in which you did not happen to rule. It seems to us very little serious to do this in a GNP which talks about family protection, which talks about a constitutional mandate under article 39 and which, above all, talks about poverty in children. It is very little serious, because I assume that you, gentlemen of the People's Party, will know perfectly well the report that was published, from Unicef, in which you tell us clearly that our country is the third in line with what has to do with growth in child poverty - nothing less - together with Romania and other similar countries. It would therefore be good for an initiative of this nature to outline the debate that we have raised with some rigour in the data and with approaches that should be absolutely serious, especially when the risk that Spain is running, after a seven-year management of the People's Party that has been disastrous, is that today the inequality that you speak of only in a certain period of time becomes structural. This is the risk our country is running, in which an increasingly social minority, an elite is richer and an enormous social majority is increasingly poorer, including minors and minors. It seems to you that this has no relevance and you speak of inequality as if you were in the world of ideas. Inequality is real, it is happening now in Spain and, as a result of its policies, we run the risk of it becoming an absolutely structural inequality, in which the rich are richer and the poor are unfortunately poorer. Of course, this is not our model. The proposition they make smells like naphthaline, and I mean it with respect. Yes, they are measures that, as you propose, seem to look at an old society, an old society. Spain has changed: the families are plural, diverse, they are of all colors; fortunately we have all kinds of realities and do not get along with the approach that you do, which is fundamentally individualistic. Fortunately, it seems that you pass by there without touching it, but what we have to talk about is co-responsibility, once and for all, between women and men in the care of children, but also co-responsibility with companies, which have to ensure that women can care for their daughters and children, and men, equally, have to be on an equal footing. Companies must also contribute to the family model that our country needs. I would like to draw your attention very quickly to the eight amendments that we have made to you because we have disagreements with the approaches you are making. First of all, it draws our attention to the fact that this law that you invoke is raised by forgetting the administration that is basic, the local administration. We ask them to incorporate not only the autonomous communities, but also the local administrations. Look, we just talked about the social bonus and, of course, to pay if we remember the municipalities and the councils; so that they have to pay 50% of the social bonus, there are the local administrations. We ask you, of course, to take into account the municipalities. Secondly, rare diseases. Let the People's Party tell us about this concern when public health has been burdened, when it has been privatized, when it has been those who have incorporated the co-sponsors into our country, when they have left us almost without rights, is a joke. The images of the plural Spanish families doing crowdfunding so that children with rare diseases can obtain funding are, of course, rewarding. Therefore, we talk to you about the guarantee, of reversing the co-payments, of defending public health and of course, as we are negotiating, of increasing the benefits per child charge. As far as large families are concerned, we have doubts, because it seems to us that the large family from the fourth child has a special category, but it seems to us - here we make an amendment - that the large family of three children with income needs must also have that special category. It seems to us that it is fundamental and I hope that we will agree. As far as single-parent families are concerned - very quickly - we are calling for comprehensive legislation for them, because we know that 83 % of them are women and 50 % of them are in poverty, and we must treat them very rigorously. Birth support, as you do on an individual and voluntary basis, does not work. It's not worth a support network. Women need serious things, we need jobs, decent wages, a law of dependency with resources, we need rights to be respected. As far as birth is concerned, what we have said, not only individually, but collectively. Equilibration of permits. Welcome to the equalization of equal and non-transferable parental leave. Of course I do. Let us be told, as you are proposing, that you will continue to support vulnerable families is like a joke of bad taste. As for the last thing you propose, as forgetting that there is legislation in this country, to encourage work reconciliation, is that we do not need to encourage it; what this country needs for a new time is a completely new regulation of working time in which, at last, in a certain way, women and men on an equal footing can work with decency and dignity and also of course meet family obligations. In this regard, we believe that they are good contributions and we look forward to seeing what the People's Party is responding to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u55	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is bringing this initiative to the plenary today so that the current Government of Spain will shortly refer to this House a bill to support families. We are surprised, although in this House I think nothing is surprising anymore, by the lightness with which they demand from others what until a few months ago was their responsibility and they did nothing. Perhaps they are proposing this because they have found that the Socialist Group and this Government have already shown their social commitment. From the outset, the Socialist Government has placed the recovery of rights and the rescue of the most vulnerable individuals and families at the centre of the political agenda, which the former People's Party Government left unprotected by the excuse of the crisis. According to Eurostat data, that government of the People's Party only devoted 1.3% of gross domestic product to families and children, far away from the average of the countries in our environment. If you add to this the precarious situation that their cuts and reforms have produced in the labour market, there are still many difficulties that Spanish families are currently experiencing. This is attested to by the National Statistical Institute's living conditions survey, which shows, for example, that 34.4% still cannot afford to go on vacation away from home for at least one week or that 37.3% cannot afford to face unforeseen expenses. Today in Spain we find new social risks and different family models derived from new models of coexistence, whose characteristics and needs we know must be met and supported, what the government of President Sánchez is dealing with. Minister Carcedo announced last week in the Senate the elaboration of a new law that will recognize the needs of families with greater risks, such as single parents, or rather single-parent families, and large families, all from the perspective of positive parenting, as the organizations for the protection of children's rights point out to us, respecting the rights of children. This law should encourage measures to support families and their social role; to improve attention to family conflict through the development of specialized social counselling and family mediation services; to establish family meeting points and parental coordinators, as well as to the attention of the phenomenon of phyloparental violence, deepening its analysis and the design of specific resources, services or programmes to address them. This law, Your Honor, must guarantee equal opportunities, access to public goods and services, while contributing to the redistribution of income and the wealth of families, including all family models, regardless of their marital status, sexual orientation or origin of their affiliation, inexcusably addressing situations requiring protection. Our commitment to the families of this country, especially the most vulnerable, is therefore unequivocal. I would remind you that this summer we approved a budget of EUR 60 million for the programme for the protection of families and care for child poverty, which allows financing projects that contribute to improving their social and employment situation with dependent minors, with particular attention to those with higher than average rates, such as single-maritime families. Work is under way at the request of the Government, together with the High Commissioner for Combating Child Poverty, with the AIReF, the Independent Fiscal Authority, on rationalizing the system of minimum income programmes that, as you know, have now been implemented by the Autonomous Communities. And we have as a fundamental priority to increase the child benefit, as well as the universalization of child education from 0 to 3 years of age. For us, measures to reconcile work and family life, and a more corresponding sharing of family obligations, are one of the greatest structural reforms that must be carried out in our country and thus effectively ensure real equality between men and women, promoting an improvement in the democratic quality of our society. We are well aware that, despite the increasing incorporation of women into the labour market, care tasks continue to fall on them and many give up their professional careers because they do not have an adequate support system. The Government understands the need to promote comprehensive and cross-cutting measures within the framework of social dialogue that promote reconciliation, minimize the absence of women in the labour market and, which positively affect the wage and employment gap of women. On the basis of all that has been said here, we have tabled an amendment which improves and recognises the family diversity that characterizes today's society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Sauquillo. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u58	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The PNL presented to us by the People's Party, and after a somewhat interesting reading of recent economic and social cycles, aims to make a development of article 39.1 of the Constitution as it preaches as a guiding criterion of the activity of the public authorities to ensure the social, economic and legal protection of the family. To this end, and as a purpose, it points out that family support in the system should be ordered, updated and extended, and proposes a package of measures aimed at supporting families with children with disabilities or rare diseases; recognizing as a large family of a special category that consists of four children; promoting measures to promote birth; promoting actions to equalize paternity and maternity leave; ensuring that active employment policies have as their priority the care of families in situations of special vulnerability and, finally, promoting reconciliation in family, work and personal life and co-responsibility. They are all laudable purposes, as other Members have already pointed out; they are purposes that surely should have been able to attend to in a previous legislature where the proponents already exercised responsibilities, but they are purposes at the end of the day for which, I imagine, no one is going away. We all want attention to this legal object of protection for the family and we understand that these measures could be, if they were more concrete, acceptable, but the fact is that, with the exception of the reference to the recognition of the special category of families from the fourth son or daughter, all the others do not cease to be generic and inconcrete invocations which are lacking the necessary precision and which have not aroused any specific interest different from that which they could have done through specific legislative initiatives. Families with children with disabilities or a rare disease are said to be supported, but what support is not concrete, what measures are not concrete; what concrete measures are intended to promote birth promotion; nor are there any measures regarding the equalization of maternity and paternity permits, with what concrete content, far from the position that we already knew at the time in the legislative initiative that was taken into consideration in this House. The same applies to families with special vulnerability or conciliation work. In addition to noting that the proposal does refer to the need for collaboration with the autonomous communities and with entities of the third social sector - obviously - we must highlight one thing, and it is that there are other types of initiatives elsewhere, where these types of initiatives have been taken seriously, and that they have been implemented in initiatives with content. Simply as an example: recently the Basque Government approved on 19 June 2018, after having agreed with the outlaws who also have competence in the matter, municipalities and social partners, the IV Inter-institutional Plan for Supporting Families in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country from 2018 to 2022, that is, a five-year plan with concrete means. In particular, measures such as encouraging responsible reconciliation and reorienting labour surplus aid to ensure economic coverage of paternity surpluses, but with a specific content, financing 12 weeks and 100 per cent of contributions; reducing the rate of child poverty by 20 per cent, but with specific support for disadvantaged families; increasing the rate of employment for young people - and not so young - from 25 to 40 years of age to 80 per cent, also favouring other additional aid through employment policies. And so other measures relating to the fertility indicator, others relating to schooling but with children of one year old, i.e. raising the school attendance rate of children of one year old, already exists from zero to three years old, or reducing the gap in home care to 50% so that there is co-responsibility in this area. That is why, while the initiative does not cease to be well-intentioned and we do not cease to share the generic purposes it points out, it does not offer us any definite content that we can support. Unless we are warned that at the transaction stage it has been given an exact content worth us, in principle we cannot oppose it, but we cannot support it either, so we would abstain from this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u60	Good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good The People's Parliamentary Group is putting forward a non-legislative proposal for the enactment of a law to support families for their debate in plenary. Old-fashioned proposal, obsolete proposal, proposal that could be summarized in law for the sacred family, not for families. The Catalan Family Law of 2003 is more advanced and 15 years old, and we intend to renew it thoroughly and 15 years old. In short, it is what the People's Party says it will and never does, and it never does because its diagnosis is wrong. By omission he understands that the autonomous communities are collaborators, when they have full competence in this matter. But the People's Party, by omission, wants to do a little the same thing as the far-right, fascist party, which has the name of a dictionary, a party that today says the same thing as the People's Party - at least as the President of the People's Party has said - with which it has so many points in common, I don't know if in the family, but in the phobia to Catalonia, no doubt. I will not miss the opportunity to talk about families because their needs are more important than their phobias. The role of family diversity should be at the heart of the construction of comprehensive, secular, inclusive and rights-based public family policies. Anyone has formed or will form part of one or other way of a family in its vital trajectory, apart from the extent of the type of connection or characteristics of the people who make up them, but the family law, the law of sacred family that we need is very different from those proposed to us by the People's Party. There is no doubt that a basic law is necessary if it requires a broader approach than that traditionally associated with families in terms of children, only in terms of children, and to consider other situations of high incidence in the family context. For this reason, there are three situations in which the debate needs to be focused, and this is what the academy has been saying for over ten years: three major elements with an impact on the family framework, such as childhood, but also older persons and also disability or dependency, understanding that all of them have a high significance in the design of public policies of a family nature in terms of situations that combine, modify the structure of the family framework throughout life and, consequently, need the support of the State. Throughout life, any person will need support for the exercise of his or her functions in the family context, both in his or her childhood, where he or she will basically receive means of support, and in his or her maturity, where he or she will receive and request resources for his or her ascendants or descendants, as in the last years of life, where he or she may be both a recipient and a service provider within the framework of the family unit. It will be so and in many different ways, including education, reconciliation of family and work life, housing, also reconciliation in the economy and at work and care for dependency. This is a family law, not the one you propose. Therefore, in this public strategy of a cross-cutting nature that must be incorporated in those areas of action that impact more intensely on the family institution, this is where we will meet families with different levels of intensity. This is the way, not a PNL. We need broad progressive policies on the family and non-conservative. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Borrego Cortés whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u62	President, we're looking at a transaction that we're going to pass to the lawyers.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u63	All right. Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the fight against child poverty. [[File number 162/000757]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u64	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on combating child poverty. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Peña Camarero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u65	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin, I do not want to forget to greet the bodies and organisations that are working with us this afternoon in the debate on this proposal that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled on child poverty. [[indicating to the public rostrums]] Today we are bringing this initiative to debate from this group, which was the first proposal that we have recorded coming to the Government of our country. Equally important was the President of the Government, who immediately created the High Commissioner to put this reality at the centre of politics, and I would also like to welcome him to this house. And all this why? Because in our country there are more than two million children at risk of poverty and exclusion, which is the same as one in three. - No, no, no, One in three, they listen well - in our surroundings, in our neighborhood, in our own city. This doesn't happen very far from here. That is why this proposal must achieve a united response with the autonomous communities, with the municipalities, with all the organizations that have been working and fighting for years. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make the eradication of child poverty a country's goal. Child poverty cannot be seen as something anecdotal, punctual or that appeared out of nowhere. Spain is on the sad podium, accompanied by Bulgaria and Romania, of the highest child poverty risk rate in Europe with data that takes us almost 30%. Child poverty is a consequence of increases in inequality in Spain. Aggravated inequality during the crisis, because during these years it was the middle and low incomes that paid it, the ones that fell off the ladder: poor workers, poor families. That is the result of so many years of not acting to favor the most disadvantaged. Especially cruel is the situation of single-parent families, or rather, single-maritime families, where almost half are below the poverty line. You can therefore imagine the situation of the children of these families. It is essential to put in place measures to break the disadvantages of these children. Because I hope you will understand me clearly: this is not going to give tips or charity or care for poor children, what we want is for children not to be. The aim is to prevent them from being so, to put an end to that expression which says in the last seven years that poverty in Spain has the face of a girl or a child. And from the Socialist Party we want to frame it in a global sphere of action for three reasons. First, because this country has been miserable with attention to families. Yes, although some people are full of talking about families and motherhood, the reality is that so far in this country half the EU average is allocated to family policies. The commitment of this Government, on the other hand, is quantifiable and not wet paper. We are working this afternoon on a transaction to reach a consensus framework, and in that transaction we propose to double in the 2019 budgets the funds for child support intended to combat severe poverty, immediately increasing their amount in subsequent years. [[applause]] Secondly, because ending this poverty clearly involves redistribution because, indeed, the signatories of the labour reform did not believe that it would have its effects, that ending workers' rights, collective bargaining and sufficient wages would not affect families? So for all those who continue to do the whirlwinds so as not to sign the repeal of the labor reform and return the rights to the workers, let them know that we are still waiting for them here to end the precarious wages and the wild cuts that the People's Party gave to the benefits. Thirdly, because the right to healthy and balanced food, the right to leisure and culture, are inherent rights of the child that appear in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and that this Government clearly knows that it has self-imposed itself. Therefore, we are playing the future of this country and we cannot leave anyone behind. This has to be a multidimensional work in which this Government is already taking steps, in the health field universalizing access to the national health system; in the labour market fighting against precariousness, and in education recovering the levels of investment affected by the cuts, favoring access to non-compulsory education both in the 0-3 year stretch - although the People's Party and Citizens do not like it, because they do not seem to want to approve this measure in the budgets - as well as in the university through the scholarships and obviously betting on continuing education and this Fellowship program that was launched last summer. This proposal wants to develop policies that are deficient in Spain today, so we talk about'minimum vital income', an income that increases child benefits, as well as a minimum income guarantee program for families in a situation of severe vulnerability. Today is the day when we must all say yes to break with this cycle of reproduction of disadvantages, fighting the chronification of poverty and the block of social promotion, and this means strengthening public services. We want to do it seriously, not as a one-day thing or as a suffocation of a plenary afternoon. Today we have to say yes to all to cooperate with public administrations, with communities, with municipalities, with the third sector and also with corporate social responsibility of companies because the goal is to create and strengthen a common narrative. As a country, we play a lot because fighting poverty must become a public priority. We have a huge challenge ahead of us, the challenge of mobilizing collective resources and committing every society; the challenge of convincing this House that it is essential to introduce the 6 billion we have in the State General Budgets to truly fight child poverty. Saying no to some is going to be very difficult. There is no one left in the fight against child poverty. The goal is worth it; the children of this country deserve unity and consensus, and I hope they will see it this afternoon. So the question is not whether it is possible to do so; today the key question is: will you ladies decide to do so? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also, in this turn, first and foremost, lay down a position for Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Peña, we are prepared and will therefore vote in favour of this non-law proposal on combating child poverty in our country. I would also like to welcome on behalf of the Navarro People's Union all associations and also the High Commissioner for Combating Child Poverty. Why are we going to support this parliamentary initiative? Because even if the Socialist Party of Navarre does not like to remember it, the Navarro People's Union has been voting for many initiatives proposed by the Socialist Group; it also seems to them that it bothers them to remember that for twenty-three years the stable alliance, the dialogue, the pact, the compromise of the Navarro People's Union with the Socialist Party of Navarre took us to high levels of well-being until 2015, and especially because if we managed to reduce the rates of child poverty in our community and we logically want to bring that to all the communities and all the localities of Spain. We are in favour of the six points that you are proposing, and if we voted - I hope not - on separate points, we would vote on the six points in favour, although I am glad to know that you are going to accept the amendment tabled by the Navarro People's Union and that we will definitely make a compromise. The amendment tabled by the Navarro People's Union relates to point 4, in which we are talking about implementing programmes and we want to make it a little more concrete, we want effective programmes to be developed, with clear objectives, with concrete action plans, coordinated with the localities, the commons and logically with the autonomous communities, and with indicators that can be measured year by year and that this report will be made public. That is the amendment tabled by my party. Therefore, if you accept it, and as our country is worthy of the fight against child poverty and as I believe it belongs to pre-politics to fight for future generations of our country, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u69	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to welcome, as it could not otherwise be, the entities that are with us today. I will repeat part of the speech made in the previous initiative because the two themes are not only connected, but have a lot to do with each other. Before the crisis, child poverty was already over 20% in Spain. The economic crisis has only accentuated one thing that already existed, a basic, fundamental problem, that nobody had addressed in depth, as it should be addressed. That is why we have been insisting, we have done so now and we will continue to do so in that it is not the definitive solution, but that it is an important solution to increase the child allowance. This is a measure that is endorsed by large organisations familiar with severe child poverty and by other countries of the European Union that practice it and enjoy, so to speak, its results, and that is why we believe it is absolutely essential to start implementing it. We welcome the announcement by the Socialist Group spokesman to incorporate that amendment and that commitment to increase child support. We understand that this is a commitment from the Government and good news that we are going to monitor very closely. Our vote, if the transnational one announced by the Socialist spokesman is confirmed, will be favourable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will support with my vote this non-law proposal to combat child poverty, which is an irrevocable issue, of the highest priority and which seeks to boost government policy in order to find solutions to a problem incompatible with the welfare society in which we must all participate without exclusion and even less the most vulnerable children. Let me join in greeting the organizations and people who, with their tenacity and commitment, are at the forefront of combating child poverty and defending the fundamental rights of children. And allow me also an excited memory of the dead boys and girls, a sequel to terrible crimes throughout this terrible year; today, in Malaga. A few minutes ago he intervened in the rostrum to support a policy for families and once again, on behalf of the Forum, our commitment to seek points of agreement and to confront with the greatest possible consensus the formulas to correct the terrible effects of the economic crisis that had triggered the poverty of thousands of families. The previous speakers have given data and figures on the situation we experienced in Spain when we talked about child poverty and the evolution our country has undergone with new family profiles and, therefore, the need for new measures to correct it. It is shocking to know that we have some 375 000 children in severe need, but political action cannot ignore the need to push for measures that all public administrations and third-sector entities have to incorporate and join by providing them with resources, although at the Forum we believe that the best anti-poverty policy is the one that generates jobs and provides economic stability so that a person and a family can approach their present and future with the utmost solvency. A few days ago, the Senate virtually unanimously adopted a motion against child poverty, and I think it would be a good message for Spanish society if Congress were to join unanimously in this drive to the Government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u73	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, congressmen and deputies. First of all, to greet the representatives of the Children's Platform who are present here today and thank them for their work, dedication and collaboration. We welcome the fact that steps are finally being taken to eradicate child poverty and that measures are being taken to combat it. It is not necessary to remember that with the crisis the situation of families has worsened, but as aid increased in Germany, in Spain it decreased. There is something very important and fundamental that children's organizations are demanding, which is support for families. The inequality of children in Spain in most cases comes from the income of families. Spain is the sixth country with the highest economic inequality in children of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the fourth of the European Union, just ahead of Romania, Bulgaria or Greece. Spain is one of the countries of the European Union with the lowest percentage of GDP devoted to family economic benefits and is also one of the countries with the lowest social protection spending on children and their families. If Denmark is 3.7% and Ireland is 3%, Spain is 1.4%. Poverty affects the development, health and learning of and opportunities for girls and boys. We must try to make policies for children and adolescents and that these policies reach European levels, with effective measures to guarantee the rights of all children and adolescents. According to various studies, poverty risk rates are linked to the fall in the labour market. The lowest wages, long-term unemployment and involuntary partiality are ballasts that drown many families and therefore also their sons and daughters. Therefore, it is key to improve access to work, and to quality work, especially for families with children and adolescents in their care. Mr. Andrés Conde, Director General of Save the Children, has already stated that child poverty can only be combated with investment, but children have been the most forgotten in the General Budgets of the State in recent years. It is urgent to provide child poverty plans with the necessary budget if we do not want to see how the most vulnerable girls and boys continue to inherit poverty from their homes. We therefore urge the Government to provide an initial allocation of EUR 800 million in the State General Budgets, which would correspond to the increase in the last budget under the defence heading; EUR 800 million would be distributed among the autonomous communities on the basis of the percentage of child poverty in each of them. In addition, we urge the Government to maintain this amount in the successive General Budgets of the State and to seek to increase it in order to meet the objectives of the fund efficiently, always respecting the competences of the autonomous communities. I believe that we can all agree that child poverty must be addressed in a cross-cutting way from all ministries. We must urgently address social inequalities affecting children. All policies relating to girls, boys and adolescents must be put at the centre and we must ensure, above all, their economic, social and emotional well-being. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u75	Thank you very much, President. Bona tarda and a greeting also to the members of the Children's Platform and the entities that accompany us today. When I was preparing this intervention, I remembered one of the literary scenes that have impacted me most in life and which has to do precisely with child poverty. It takes place in a novel called Jude the Dark, by writer Thomas Hardy, in which a family with three children lives in total social marginalization. One night the mother, desolate, tells the father that she is very worried because she doesn't know what is going to feed her children the next day, because they are too many. The eldest of them listens to it and in the morning the mother finds the three dead children with a suicide note where they read: dead because too many. The scene is totally heartbreaking. These children, who do not even know how to speak well, do not even know how to express themselves, are, however, old enough to have suffered the injustice and arbitrariness of poverty. It is true that this may seem an exaggeration and that this novel is set in 19th century England, but in 21st century Spain there is also child poverty; in fact, one in three children in Spain lives at risk of poverty. If this is a country, as many of us believe, where no one is left, where no one has to feel too much, we cannot wait a second to combat child poverty. I had a number of figures here, but they have already been listed by the honourable Members who have preceded me and it is indeed so clear. The figures scream, the figures tell us that we cannot continue to obviate the problem of child poverty. So we welcome the fact that the Socialist Group is bringing this proposal to us today, that we recognize the problem, that we look at it from the front and that we are beginning to amend the inaction that has taken place so far. However, in this GNP we see very little concreteness. For example, the GNP talks about the introduction of a minimum living income that would increase child benefits, but at no time does it talk about the amount, the requirements for receiving these benefits, or the timetable. In the Committee on the Rights of the Child, all parliamentary groups and civil society representatives have been unanimous in their concern for child poverty and in demanding swift and decisive action, but it seems that the Socialist Group has not yet done its duty and is unable to put concrete data on the table. Well, we have done our homework and the Confederal Group registered in June 2017 a proposal for a law on child benefit. This proposal for a law is a reasonable, quantified, time-bound proposal with an absorptive budget, and would allow substantial progress in the rights of boys and girls in Spain. We introduced a significant increase in the amount of the child benefit, from EUR 24.25 per month to EUR 100 per month. In addition, the thresholds are changed to ensure that no child is unprotected. The proposal is to increase investment in child protection by 418 per cent. Spain, as has already been said, has the shameful number one position of the European Union in being the least invested country in child benefits. It is a matter of political will to change this because numbers come out, it is reflected in the bill we register; much can be done. The Confederal Group sees this proposal as a first step, a first step that should culminate in the adoption of a universal child benefit similar to that in most European countries. It would be only a first step on this path to social justice, and the Socialist Group and the Government have to decide whether they want to make this path to social justice with us. It is true that it is only a GNP, but it is not acceptable that on such important issues as the one we are dealing with there is no commitment on the table of time and amount, and the same happens in the proposals that are made about education or health, the problems are listed but the solutions are not concrete. And another thing that draws our attention is that there is neither a mention in this GNP nor a mention of single-parent families, which does contemplate the proposal for a law that the Confederal Group recorded. 10% of the families in this country are single parents, especially single mothers, and suffer from serious poverty problems. We have tabled a number of amendments in this regard: one, to include single-parent families; the other, to include cross-sectorality - all our public policies should consider it because it is clear that children with functional diversity suffer poverty differently - and, finally, we have included another amendment to guarantee the right to leisure and culture in children. In short, we will vote in favour as this is a measure that shows concern for child poverty and we agree with the orientation given to this problem, but we already say from here that we need budgets that are commensurate with the magnitude of the problem of child poverty in Spain: with real, quantified and time-bound commitments, as we have in our bill. It is social justice that is at stake and our childhood deserves no less. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Heredia Martín has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I greet the Children's Platform, which is with us today, and all the entities that collaborate day by day so that the children of Spain can move forward and not stay behind. Today we have a non-law proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to talk about child poverty. Among its most important measures, we are asked to create a vital minimum income, in the style of the house Podemos - a universal basic income - with a budget in the European elections of 275 billion euros; then they moderated a little and lowered it to guaranteed income, to 15 billion euros, but today, after listening to Mrs García Puig, it seems that they have still taken a more centered left turn and are already only talking about increasing the child allowance. In short, Mrs Peña, as other groups have said, you create a vital minimum income, but you do not say where you are going to get the money. Are we going to find ourselves, as in pensions, a new tax? You also talk about strengthening public health services. Well, let's hope it's not at the expense of creating debt, which is why they are true architects, true magicians. When they were in the government in 2011 and wanted to strengthen health, a debt of 16 billion euros was created that later had to be paid by the People's Party. Another measure is to comply with the recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. This is good, Mrs Peña, because it would be the first time in the history of the Socialist Party that you are making a measure in favour of child poverty in Spain. I'll explain it to you because it's a pretty challenge. You have only gone back seven years, but why not go a little further back, when Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero ruled, to 2004, to 2005, to 2006, to 2007, when the crisis began? There we already had a very high rate of child poverty, 33.4%. You're talking about 28.3% of your GNP. Well, since 33.4 of 2011 we have increased to 28.3% with the government of Mariano Rajoy, note that there are 5 points less. We'll have done something right! You see it all very negative and with much lack of rights, but something will have done well. But I'm going to tell you what you did: nothing. You allocated zero euros in the 2011 general budgets, with which you were falling in Spain; 33.4% of child poverty and allocated zero euros in the general state budgets. But I'll tell you more. You did not mention once, it was never seen in a special plan to combat child poverty, the words 'child poverty' in the specific action plans for social inclusion in Spain. Not once did they care about child poverty when they ruled. And I'm going to tell you something else, you guys who like to talk about cuts so much. You have a Guinness record for cuts in children's issues; you can't talk so cheerfully here about cuts because you cut 92.8% in programs and services for the family and minors, so don't breastfeed this rostrum by talking about child poverty because you've really done very little when you've ruled, and you're proving it now too. I am glad to hear that they are going to raise the child benefit because they also cut it - they like scissors very much -: they cut that benefit by 42% when they ruled in the previous stage. I am therefore glad that you have rectified and returned to the path of good governance. You also said they wanted to do it seriously. Well, I'll tell you what I think and what I feel. You don't want to be serious. If they wanted to do it seriously, they would have it very easily: they are already ruling. It is that you have opposition complex, but you are already ruling; therefore, it is as easy as Mr. Pedro Sánchez, instead of being around Fifth Avenue or going around with his helicopter or with his Falcon, that every time he moves it costs 5500 euros - see, Mrs. Peña, if you would eat children in Spain with that money - he raised the phone and called his High Commissioner for the fight against child poverty, which I say will have some function that man. [[applause]] Of course, what you are telling me here is that it is useless, as Mrs Carcedo believed in the Committee on Children, when she was a High Commissioner a quarter of an hour ago; she is now a Minister of Social Welfare, because tomorrow we do not know where you are going to be. Well, that lady said and I read literally - I open quotes - 'the High Commissioner's vocation is not limited to saying: here are four poor children and we are going to give them something'. So, what does this lady do? There are one, two, three or whatever, you will have to support and care for those children. But that's the way they think in the Socialist Party and we can seem to laugh at him because they don't criticize him for his policies; they will agree or, perhaps, they have also moved on to the glamour policy, to the policy of 'I'm going to buy a villa of 1 million euros' or 'I'm going to buy a luxury flat'. And that's how we are in our country. I'll tell you one thing. Don't rush, really; follow the example of the People's Party, accept our amendments and economically equip the national plans of action for social inclusion, as we did: 17 million in 2014; 32 million in 2015; 48 million in 2016, and 100 million in 2017 and in the budgets that you are enjoying thanks to the work of the People's Party of 2018.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u78	Mrs. Heredia, you have to come to an end.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u79	Yes, I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you more. Indeed, they do not mince and are not stubborn, the best bet that can be made to carry child poverty and any kind of poverty is the weapon of employment. We're going to create a job. We are not going to destroy jobs, as is already being destroyed in Spain; we are going to create jobs as with the People's Party: 1500 jobs a day. And with you, for 100 days now, we have been destroying 333 jobs every day. There are 333 families who go to unemployment and their children to child poverty.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u80	Mrs. Heredia, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u81	Yeah, I'm done. So do us a favor, Mrs Peña, the people, the Spaniards, of course do not want them to keep their children; the Spaniards want a job to keep them themselves. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u82	Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u83	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I must confess that when I read this non-law proposal, I am not going to say that I was angry, but I did feel some frustration, because, Mrs Peña, how many of the initiatives that are included in the proposed part of the non-law proposal and how many of the actions aimed at rescuing minors from a situation of poverty are in the hands of the Government of the State? And, on the contrary, how many are played by the municipalities and autonomous communities which, however, are completely ignored in this initiative outside of calling them a collaborative area? Look, in February 2017, and on the occasion of an initiative by Podemos - I think it was a motion - on measures to reduce the thresholds of child poverty, I said more or less that nothing can be more hateful than that child poverty can be the cause of confrontation or of majorities vis-à-vis minorities, and I still think so. But this is a proposal based on priorities, on the articulation of social policies that binds all the institutions and has occurred in a kind of rediscovery of the phenomenon of child poverty, mainly due to the shift from the area of poverty to the field of children and, secondly, because this implies the realization of the impact that these situations of poverty have in the short, medium and long term not only in these living conditions, but also in the vital expectations of minors. For this reason, the phenomenon of child poverty is not only an attack on the rights of the children concerned, but also a threat to equity, social cohesion and the future of not only Spanish, Basque or Donoster societies, from where I am from, but also to the European society as a whole. Despite this serious contextualization and the fact that, as they have already repeated, Spain has the dubious honour of leading, together with Romania and Bulgaria, the ranking of child poverty rates, taking into account also that the rate of minors living at risk in Euskadi is considerably lower - less than 25%, even less than the European average, which is 27 % - even if poverty thresholds are used - that of adopted people would also be lower - we understand, despite the fact that this comparative situation is better, that the commitment must be made by all the institutions but in the light of the solution of the real problem of child poverty. They said before - they have greeted the social partners and I too take the opportunity to do so now - that there are different initiatives with different content, also in the Basque area, but before referring to those relating to the Basque area I would like to comment on the following. I criticized the initiative at first precisely because we understood that some of the measures were not in the hands of the proposers. He talks about the dependent child benefit and incidentally it is a good measure, the only one in the proposal that we believe it is. However, it does not take into account that the supplement to this benefit has always been achieved through social income that is in the hands of the autonomous communities. Measures that refer to the strengthening of health or education, such as education from 0 to 3 years, are implemented in many other places, they are in other areas: they are in the municipalities and in the autonomous communities. With regard to partnership with the third sector, it has also been effectively strengthened in the area of dialogue with the autonomous communities. It is a four-year inter-institutional plan to support families against child poverty, with which, in agreement with both the social sector and the rest of the institutions, it has developed a number of spending initiatives: 500 million in social policies - especially in the area of conciliation - 785 million in income guarantees for families with children in poverty or in youth employment programmes, 220 million in child education, 250 million in scholarships, in housing policies for young people, etc., or in tax policy initiatives in the area of deductions. The question is, therefore, why are initiatives being taken in this regard? We cannot disagree with the generic content of the initiatives, but with the addressee to whom they relate, because with the argument that everything works badly in the State - and that is a generic statement - it is intended to redefine the space of activities of the administrations to submit them again to the guardianship of the State Government. With the argument of cooperation we are talking about intervention, not anything else, and we cannot consent to it, that is all right! Despite the fact that, as I said more than a year and a half ago, this is an issue that should not be used for confrontation, we cannot consent to the attempt to put at risk policies that have already been put in place, at least in Euskadi - and we believe that in other autonomous communities also by the competent governments - and therefore we want to ask them to do one thing: propose that the Government of the State, in view of the gravity of the problem, authorize funds for some of these measures to be implemented, but not by the Government of the State but by the administrations that, in addition to being competent, are legitimized for this because they have proved to be effective in their actions. In that job they will find us, but in this one of the generic postureum, I'm sorry but they won't find us.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u85	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, both from the European institutions and from the main organisations - which are here today and I take the opportunity to greet them - that work on children has been paying attention, the emphasis for many years on the high rates that our country has in child poverty. Depending on the study we can find different figures, but all agree that the number of minors in our country who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion ranges from 20 to 30%, and only two countries above us have worse results: Latvia and Romania. Spain has also received a recommendation from the European Commission, for the most part: correcting shortcomings and improving family support systems, including access to children's schools. Unfortunately, and despite being one of our country's greatest challenges, it is clear that it has never been one of the Government's priorities, neither the PP nor the PSOE, because, on the other hand, when it is one of one's priorities, it does things like, for example, the reduction of the IRPF for incomes under EUR 18,000, a deduction of EUR 1000 for families who take their children to children's schools, the creation of a wage supplement for young people and many other measures and many more that remain to be done. [[Applauds]] During the first two years of this parliamentary term - I admit it - the Socialist Party has been very demanding with the few proposals brought here by the PP government. That is why we are waiting to know whether these demands will be translated into concrete measures or will be left in mere announcements or slogans. The Government announced on a drums and platter that it created the figure of the High Commissioner to combat child poverty and that that agency would depend on it. Five months later we are like when Mr. Sánchez arrived, who was coming as a savior and the only ones he has saved have been his little friends, who are all placed. [[Applauds]] All the parties that we are here are in favour of ending a matter such as child poverty, which is so serious, so serious and which concerns us, but what we are not going to allow under any circumstances is demagogy. You know perfectly well that this high commissioner, this body, lacks its own funds, that is, beyond what is necessary to pay the high payrolls of its components. So for the moment the only poverty Mr Sánchez has ended with has been that of the High Commissioner and that of his constituents. [[Applauds]] In early September the Minister, Mrs Carcedo, came to the Committee on Children. We leave that Commission with the same information with which we enter, with the same plans, with the same projects, that is, with none. So I'm going to ask you from here, to see if I'm more lucky, what specific programmes to fight child poverty are going to increase the government to reach the average level of Europe in investment in this area, what the government is going to do to improve the quality of its jobs and its pay. [[applause]] The new High Commissioner has pointed out in an interview that the Government cannot eradicate severe child poverty in this legislature, because this requires EUR 6 billion and also has enforcement capacity, which they apparently do not have. That is why I would like to ask from here where the government is going to get the EUR 6 billion to increase minimum living income and at the same time meet the commitments in Europe. Tax? Going up taxes? On the other hand, are you telling me that the government has created a high commissioner who spends hundreds of thousands of euros on wages to do so, without importance, without any significance? Very coherent, so coherent that I don't know how it hasn't occurred to us before. [[Applauds]] I believe that there has been enough time for the right measures and decisions to be taken, different from corrections, because this government, however transitional it is going to be, must come with a country project, with measures, with solutions, but since Mr Sánchez has arrived he is more likely to stay alive in this legislature on the basis of announcements than to make the reforms that this country needs. The creation of a High Commissioner may seem - I acknowledge that - a good idea, a good announcement, but when the High Commissioner comes to the Commission and says no one measure you will fall apart. Gentlemen of the PSOE, don't build any more sand castles because they collapse. We want a serious government, a rigorous government, that is not more concerned with how to survive this legislature than with making reforms. We want to be news in Spain for the reforms that are being made and not for having Mr. Handsome in the government. Land now, gentlemen of the Government, because the time to do things is now and you are going ahead without doing one in condition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs Millan. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Peña Camarero whether her group accepts any of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u87	Yeah, we're working on a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u88	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u89	We turn to the next item on the agenda, a motion following an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the steps the Government intends to take to depoliticize the public administration and to ensure the professionalism and impartiality of appointments in the public sector. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to table our motion against the fingertips of bipartisanism over the past forty years. Last week we brought a proposal to discuss it, as a result of much of the new abuse of ultra-politicization, the brutal invasion and colonization that in the few months of government the Socialist Party has made of a large part of public institutions. There is a consensus that has been generated, fortunately after years of crisis, that the abuse of politicization, the colonization of administrations, putting friends in regulators, putting friends in which you are supposed to be monitored, putting friends in supervisors, for example, at the local level, results in a very clear consequence: that you have huge corruption rates. Why? Because if you have a friend and the friend is the one who has to control you and it's the plug you put in there, he'll probably shut up and look the other way. If the gentleman in charge of regulating the savings banks is plugged in by your party, he will probably put few obstacles on the financial sector. We also know that in the administration, in order for it to work, we need political positions that are the ones that set the course and that there is a bureaucracy that acts as a counterweight, that there are checks and balances that control abuses of power. That's what we've learned so far. Unfortunate cases in the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the municipalities and so on are very numerous. Think, for example, of Mr Correa, how is it possible that Mr Correa was given so many contracts for so long? How did people look the other way? When your position depends on your toe and does not depend on the meritocracy or the work you have done, when your promotion as an official depends on the will of the political party, then you will probably prefer to look elsewhere. [[Applauds]] We need to regain balance in order to have a modern administration. [[The lady]] A few months before Mr Sánchez arrived, he said: the new Socialist Party is going to make sure that meritocracy prevails, not plugging. He said: Plugging and endogamy are going to end. Well, today, 44% of the members of the executive of the Socialist Party are in various positions of the administration. More than five hundred plugs! If you've only had three months, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, how have you had time to place so many people? [[Applauds]] After criticizing the People's Party for so many years, I will not go into details - I did it last time - about some of the shameful charges that you have named. How can it be that in a public institution whose service is to make public surveys so that we all have neutral and professional information you place your leading sociologist who has been working for the Socialist Party for forty-five years and doing the surveys to Mr Sánchez? Who's going to believe that institution? [[Applauds]] You are machines to degrade institutions through plugging and fingering. The same is true of so many other presidencies of public enterprises. The other day he mentioned the case of Enusa, which is the company responsible for the supply and management of enriched uranium. Now you have put a gentleman who, with all due respect, is a philosopher and was manager of the Municipal Sports Foundation of Valencia City Council. That's right, he was the secretary general of the PSOE of the Valencian Community. It's a very serious matter. Imagine there's a crisis with enriched uranium. Would you like to have as president of this institution a gentleman who has no idea how such a company is run? I don't. [[Applauds]] Not to mention Post Offices, not to mention Paradores; imagine a sector as disruptive as that of hotels, where there have been so many transformations. I would like to have in a public enterprise - which is public money - a gentleman who can really compete with his competitors and be at the most demanding, not a gentleman who has had all the experience in his life is to be in the corridors of Ferraz. Gentlemen, that cannot be the path of regeneration. In conclusion, our proposal with this motion is to put an end to the fingertips and ultra-politicization to which both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have been subjected to this country for the past forty years. It's three very clear principles. The first is to reform the civil servant's statute so that the presidents of public enterprises and so that much of the administration's positions cease to be appointed to the finger by politicians and become a professional high-ranking figure who is chosen with merit, with competence, in open competition like all modern administrations in northern Europe and who have incentives that are somewhat more similar to those of the private sector. Secondly, we propose a figure of senior professional leadership that differs from the figure of senior office, that has to be very limited to some politicians and that changes every time there is a government, not that 80 per cent of the government changes. I have forgotten to mention the report of the Fedeca officials themselves, in which they claimed and cried out that, please, you should end politicization and stop degrading public institutions. Thirdly, what we propose in our motion is that a law be made to protect our institutions from politicization. As we have already seen the reaction of the Socialist Party in the previous motion, we have decided that we will present - it announced here - this Thursday a law collecting the principles that are marked in this motion to end the fingers and the plugging of once in this country. [[Applauds]] This Thursday we will present the law. For the sake of consensus we have tried to incorporate - and the amendments have been circulated to the Members responsible for this motion - some of the ideas that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have brought to us and we hope that they will approve it so that we can move forward in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u91	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Serrano Jiménez intervenes, first of all, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with an initiative which, as the proposing group claims, aims to ensure the impartiality of the public administration, but in fact, Mr Roldán, seeks to discredit, stain, defile and, of course, manipulate democracy - that is what you do - the normal alternation, the transfer of legal and legitimate powers that exist in any democratic and legal state. [[applause]] Your Honor, we are in a country in which in its forty years of democracy we have developed a depoliticised public administration and with public employees who agree on the principles of equality, merit and capacity set out in the consolidated text of the Law on the Basic Status of Public Employees, which applies to civil servants and as far as it applies to civil servants. The same rule also regulates the promotion of public employment, as well as the principles that must govern the performance of public employees, among others, those of legality, service to the general interest, effectiveness, transparency, equality, as well as other ethical and behavioral principles that are also reflected. Of course, the right to continuing training of public employees is also recognized. On the other hand, there is the merit competition, which is the usual system of providing jobs, as well as the procedure of providing by free designation, which is reserved for certain jobs according to the consolidated text of the EBEP, but which under no circumstances should be identified, Mr Roldán, with arbitrary designation. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you do not come here to invent anything; if I may say so, it is all invented, even in displeasure, because, moreover, you have the little style of falling into personal offense by appointing specific persons in the initiative you present; people whose appointments are in accordance with absolute legality. [[applause]] Since they also mention it in the initiative, it has been this group, my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that has promoted the reform of the Spanish Broadcasting Act to regain pluralism in the election of the members of the Board of Directors and the president of the Corporation. It has also been my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that has expressed its willingness to strengthen the impartial and independent performance of constitutional and regulatory bodies through a system of appointments of its members providing for the public call for vacancies to be filled, the assessment of the competence and suitability of candidates by an advisory committee and the reporting to these Chambers, therefore, to representatives of popular sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, this would not be the case with the CIS, which is set up as an autonomous body. The appointment of the holders of the autonomous bodies, as provided for in Law 40/2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, is governed by the rules applicable to the General Administration of the State. On the other hand, Law 3/2015, which regulates the exercise of the high office in the General Administration of the State, provides that the appointment of the high office shall be made between suitable persons and in accordance with the specific legislation. This is what has happened, ladies and gentlemen, with the various appointments made by this Government, which in everything has complied absolutely with the law and the law, in everything. [[Applauds]] I'll give you a data. This government has only appointed less than 50% of the top posts in this country - unless -, therefore, do not demagogy on this issue. They presume to be new, to be the saviors, to come to regenerate, but, unfortunately, they have a lot of speech - a lot of speech - many words and very few facts; that is, they have a hollow speech. There is a saying that is said in my land - and popular wisdom is synonymous with intelligence - that says that if you want to meet people look at what they do and not at what they say. [[Applauds]] That happens to you, who say a lot but do little, when you do not do the opposite of what you say, because you are neither so new nor have so little time. I don't say this is either good or bad, just tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack, to continue with the sayings. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to regenerate and change regulations, which are always better, do so rigorously, but not by presenting an initiative that is a whirlwind of issues that do not have to do with each other; for it has nothing to do with access and career in the public service of the public employee with the appointment of the high-ranking and trusted personnel of any Government, this and any Government of any democratic country or of any political organization, including that of its parliamentary group. Do you not have advisers, trusting positions in your parliamentary group or in those municipalities where you govern? Don't you? Do they also have advisers in the European Parliament? Neither? If you want, you and I talk about that, you know a lot about that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u93	Mrs. Serrano, your time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u94	I'm done, President. I'm done. Regrettably, this does not regenerate political life or restore citizens' confidence in good politics, in that which transforms society, avoids inequalities and generates rights and aid to the disadvantaged. If you really want to contribute positively to the improvement of democracy, bet on initiatives that impact on people's well-being, bet on quality public services, work to develop the Staff Regulations of the Public Employees of the General Administration of the State, work for all that needs to be done to improve quality public services. But of course, let us not manipulate or distort the public administration or democracy, because we are doing the citizens of this country and the people of this country little favor with that manipulation that you make of matters that must be sacred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all speakers to adjust to time, because it is not possible that the red light is being given more than two minutes and that no one sees it. I believe that we are all able to see a light, so I ask you please to adjust to the times, that we are in the propositions not of law and in the motions. I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Roldán, it seems to me that you are coming a month and a half late, because in August - I do not know if you were on vacation - the Minister of Finance attended to explain the appointments at the request of the People's Parliamentary Group. We did not see you at that time demanding or asking for those appointments, as we did from the People's Parliamentary Group. I also think that you should read the initiatives you bring, because from what you have said to what you have written little has to do with it, given what you have presented today in the rostrum. From the People's Parliamentary Group I would like to highlight the work of the more than three million Spaniards who dedicate their efforts so that we can all enjoy quality public services; teaching staff, social, health and administrative staff; people without whom our country would not have a welfare state of the most advanced in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning to speak in this way because I firmly believe that public employees carry out their work impartially and professionally. How can you pose the existence of technicians in our administrations who practice connivance and permissiveness as a means of progress, as you write in your motion? How can they claim that officials fail to fulfil their obligations under the duty of control by provoking the proliferation of fraudulent or corrupt practices? But what image do you have of our public employees? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, as always, you live in a dark world, to which you have been born theoretically to bring light. For, Mr Citizens' Spokesman, some of us have been thinking and working for quality in our administrations, defending merit and capacity and raising the voice when they insult them, because our public administrations are clean and at the service of all citizens. If I had read your initiative, I wouldn't have been denying it with my head. What's to work on? Yeah. What needs to be further improved? Also, but without contempt or disrespect. We believe that further progress should be made in coordination with the trade union representatives of public employees in the Basic Staff Regulations, because it is necessary to continue the process of modernization of public administrations, because the figure of the professional public manager must be effectively developed and objectively defined where the technical part ends and where the political part begins, because both parties are necessary. Of course, it is necessary to reduce the presence of contingent personnel to the strictly necessary number. When it is in the Government and also in the opposition. Do you recognize Mr. Spokesman to this deputy, before UPyD, now of Citizens, the one who was famous for being a deputy and having seven advisors? [[shows an article whose title says: 'Seven advisors for a deputy' and in which you see the image of Mr Prendes Prendes]] Speaking of advisors, what do you think of the chiringuitos? Because if they left them, they'd be the king of the chiringuites. Every time you propose an initiative you want to create an independent body; that is, appointed by you. And with the public servants you are obsessed. They have already proposed an independent commission of State appointments, an independent authority of public integrity, and today we have an independent administrative authority. Good thing they don't like political interference in the public administration! Entering the rest of the points of the initiative, we believe that we must go further, seeing what is happening. In regulatory bodies, gentlemen of the PSOE, it cannot happen that a regulator's advisor is acting on matters in which a close family member - a minister - is deciding. As for CIS, it cannot be used to manipulate and experiment with the Spanish. Just one example: the PSOE wants to reform the Constitution; then it asks in the CIS for the reform of the Constitution. The result, what a coincidence, 70% of Spaniards want to change the Constitution and more than 64% think it must be a change of heart. Ladies and gentlemen, have any of you ever asked on the street or stopped to tell them that it is necessary to change the Constitution? The truth is that I've never been stopped for that; the only thing I'm stopped for is to tell me that elections are called. That you do not dare, gentlemen of the PSOE, to ask in the CIS. [[Applauds]] And what about the Spanish Television Corporation. It is urgent to complete the election of a board of directors and to have an impartial and independent public radio and television. Rosa María Mateo's immediate cessation is necessary for his informative manipulation and the mass dismissal of the personnel considered not akin. I conclude, Madam President, because although the spectators are already ceasing it every day, as the news has lost 425 000 spectators last month compared to September of the previous year, she and her own continue to charge the salary of the taxes that we all pay. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Mr Roldán, if we have to talk about how we rethink the public administration, we can talk about it; it seems to me to be a super-interesting debate. What seems to me to be more difficult to digest is that introduction that you always do about what you have come to do here, why our Lord has created you, among other things to enlighten us about how to do things, how to do new politics and, above all, how to put politics at the service of very rare interests. I would say that you have come here as a regenerating party that came to end the evils of bipartisanism and I would say to you that you hide very well if you have come to do that, because you are asking for the resignation of those ministers who falsify the résumés and do not resign you, when it is you who have rare things in your résumés; it is you who criticize the ministers of bipartisanism when you have rare societies to manage properties and do not resign you, when you have rare societies to manage somewhat strange properties. Therefore, you have not come here to manage the evils of bipartisanism, you have come to emulate them. You've come to copy them. We are going to vote against this initiative for a very simple and very basic reason, which is that you have not read the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which is used to defending in this House, where it is said that the competition over the public workers of the Generalitat is exclusive to the Generalitat of Catalonia. You don't even mention that fact that I don't think it's very relevant. That is why we are going to vote against, because you could regulate and legislate on the workers of the State Public Service, but in no case on those that are the competence of the Generalitat of Catalonia, as the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia says you claim to defend. That is why I urge you to reconsider your proposal from another perspective, taking into account the autonomous competences in those cases that you also defend. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u100	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a motion by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group calling on the Government to reduce the politicization of the summit of the General Administration of the State and its public sector. There are also measures relating to the CIS, to the completion of the election process of the members of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio-television and to the fact that this House through a proposal for a law amending Law 3/2015, of the high office of the General Administration. These last three points will not count on our support. A motion can not be raised by distorting it, making it not an instrument of control or impulse of the Government's action, as provided for in article 111 of the Constitution, but a shortcut from a parliamentary group to urge something to the Congress that helped with its capacity for legislative initiative. For its part, the election of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio-television is a process already under way and also agreed among the parliamentary forces. As far as CIS is concerned, as has already been said, it is an autonomous body, it is a public administration and it is hardly reducible to the model of Spanish Radiotelevision, which is an anonymous society, unless the nature of that society is changed. With regard to the measures proposed with regard to the high posts and contingent staff of the General Administration, we do not share the motion either. It is wrong to assume that in the General Administration the model of the spoils system governs, that the party that assumes the Government after the inauguration of its president performs a role of approach of the General Administration, throwing on the edge the previous charges and this, ladies and gentlemen, is not so. The General Administration is headed by its senior officials under the last direction of the Government and has full continuity, without prejudice to changes in Government. Its most technical management part, i.e. its general directors, deputy deputy directors and deputy directors are appointed from among career officials by the LD system and are always in the public administration, either in high-ranking positions or as a staff member. And when they are eventually terminated as senior officials, they return to their positions in most cases of service chiefs or negotiators, also at the highest stages of the public administration. The professionalism and impartiality of these senior positions is ensured insofar as they are co-opted from among staff mostly of the highest rank. Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, we cannot speak of plugging in the terms in which you speak because it is uncertain, unfair and a contempt for the people who are appointed high-ranking among career officials. You tell us about the status of the public manager provided for in the Basic Statute, in the EBEP of 2017, whose development we all know failed and whose fate was decided to a large extent, among others, by Fedeca, by opposing access to that status of the non-official staff. I do not know whether you from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group are now trying to do the same, but in any case we will not support the motion because we believe that the current model is reasonably balanced and allows the most senior career officials access to the most technical states of senior office as a label between the Government and the top officials of the Administration, namely the ministers in their dual status, the secretaries of state and the undersecretaries of state. Finally, and I am finalizing, we will also not support your motion by the tone and language used in your inquiry. There is a lack of respect for the people whom you name and name to undermine your reputation and who have already affected you by the minister and now the spokesman of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Language also totally disrespectful when talking about shift politics to refer to public positions when they appoint potential staff, advisers and the latter as plugged in by a finger. I ask you: do you think this is serious and that the public is respected by speaking in this way? Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to the fact that we believe that there should certainly not be so many potential advisers, do you think that when we refer to you, gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, we should also call you shift politicians - using the expression you use with others - for appointing many more than twenty advisers from your parliamentary group - almost as many as Members - paid with public money and should call your connected advisers? [[Applauds]] We believe that not out of responsibility and out of respect for the public. Please, lords of Citizens, for once apply the story. Thank you very much. [[Mr. López Álvarez: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u102	Thank you, President. Deputys and deputies, good afternoon. We are debating a motion that follows an inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which seems to us to be mere demagogic, which seeks the headline and the easy criticism of the Government. In fact, the Minister of Finance was brought to the Commission at the end of August in an extraordinary way to discuss this issue urgently. You, Lords of Citizens, Mr Roldán, who always talk about what matters to people - or at least that's what you say -, bring us this motion that I don't think is very interesting. Our group understands that a newly formed Government should have some room for appointment of senior officials to the General Administration of the State; it would be truly innovative to appoint people who were not of the political trust of the chosen Government for positions with great responsibility. We are not going to go into the details of the people appointed during the summer or whether they are suitable for the position or we are not going to endorse or criticize their appointment. We don't think it's up to us. When, in some elections, citizens elect a political group - or several - to govern by majority, they do so in accordance with an electoral programme, an ideology and proposals. It therefore makes every sense for the Government to appoint posts to help implement the majority-voted electoral programme. It surely makes more sense for senior officials to have that political confidence, as much government action will fall on them and they will have to set the strategic line to follow in implementing what citizens voted in the ballot box. If the majority of groups so desire, we can debate in a serene and demagogic framework in the middle - which, in fact, is the purpose of this motion - whether the persons appointed should go through a certain check of suitability for their appointment. We can also discuss whether it is desirable for senior government appointees to go through an accountability or accountability process to ensure a proper assessment of the efficiency and effectiveness of public policies. I'm finishing up. We are surprised by this motion that differentiates between posts of non-political designation and posts of political designation, coming from a party whose president runs through Spain and sees neither blue nor red nor urbanites, nor rural nor older nor young. He only sees Spaniards. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u103	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United PodemosIn Comú PodemosIn Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. You, Mr Roldán, are presenting us today with a motion of perdigoness, you do not know very well what you are proposing, you do not know very well what you are talking about, but you have a clear objective: to weaken the Public Service because it attacks public services and citizens' rights. You want to reform a Civil Service Statute without even talking to the unions. You have a total lack of respect for social concertation, which is one of the foundations of our democratic system and you also want to do so by jumping away from all autonomous competences. In this motion of perdigonada you put everything in the same bag, you talk about everything in order not to concrete anything: Public function, Spanish Broadcasting, CIS, the regulatory councils. Your motion, Mr. Roldán, is to shoot the sky to see what falls. Besides, Mr. Roldán, this is the motion for demagogy. Do you know why? Because you put the magnifying glass on the public officials of the state and instead when it comes to supervising the maximum civil servant in the state, who is the head of the state, then you are cowards. [[Applauds]] The king, Mr Roldán, that is a vital charge, that is a politicized charge, as we saw on October 3rd or as we are discovering these days his actions to weaken the Catalan economy, and that is a charge named to the finger by we already know who, when you ask for a commission of inquiry then you shut up and you are cowards. That's Citizen cynicism. You are talking about ending corruption, and that is very good, Mr Roldán, we must end corruption. But of course, to go against corruption the most important thing and the first thing is not to support corrupt people, which is what you have done: 1, 2 and could make a long list. [[Rajoy, Susana Díaz]] [[Cifuentes, Casado, Pedro Antonio Sánchez]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] Mr Roldán, you have no credibility in the fight against corruption because you have been the scaffolding of the corrupt in this country. When the People's Party parasitized the institutions, you kept quiet and kept them in power knowing that you were hurting us all. [[Mr.Pradas Torres: Didn't they hurt you?-Protests]] You dare even speak of Spanish Radio Television when we still have fresh in our memory your behavior by breaking the agreement of all groups, except the Popular, to finally agree with the People's Party and manipulate the contest together so that it remains a tool of political propaganda. You're calling the public contest and coming up here to ask for the entity's independence, but your cynicism is already untenable when you talk about the impartiality of the Public Service. Do you know, Mr Roldán, how the impartiality of officials is achieved? Guaranteeing your labor rights, just like that. A stable job is the only one 1 Words withdrawn by Mr.Mena Arca. 2 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. how to be free about the power of turn, and you have done exactly the opposite. [[applause]] You have done quite the opposite, you have supported the replenishment rates of the People's Party to zero, you have encouraged the interinity rates in the Public Service of almost 30%, of the highest in Europe, recently the Supreme has declared the cessation of teachers to be null and void on 30 June in order not to charge the months of July and August, which were a clear fraud of law and which you supported in the General Budgets of the State. You are precarizing and criminalizing our officials and do not want to see that despite your cuts agreed with the People's Party in education, health care or dependency we have public workers, teachers, doctors and caregivers, who are the best in Europe. It is they and they who have maintained the system while you were playing to weaken it and precarious your jobs. You're playing criminalizing our public workers. And I'm done, Madam President. Mr Roldán, when you really want to talk about ensuring professionalism and impartiality in the Public Service, we do so seriously and rigorously, because it seems that it is very difficult to talk to you seriously, you are a lackey and you are also a deep demagogues. [[Rumors.-Mr. Heredia Díaz: Who's going to talk!]] Work a little, just a little. Make laws, as do the rest of the parliamentary groups, and do not make perdigonate motions. Stop doing the policy of criminalization, of tension and that of the headline because, like everything, you are being turned against as a boomeran. Thank you very much. [[Mr Simancas Simancas and Mr Echaniz Salgado ask for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u105	Thank you very much. Yes, by this order. Mr. Simancas.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u106	Madam President, pursuant to Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask the last speaker in this plenary to withdraw the very unfortunate and absolutely outrageous accusation made by the President of the Andalusian Board. It's not worth everything in politics, not even campaigning. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Mena, you have one minute to answer what you have been asked and if you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u108	Yes, Madam President. In my speech I referred to Governments that have cases of corruption on the table. .. [[Mr Pradas Torres: That is not what you said!- Various Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: No! No!-Mr. Heredia Díaz: You've alluded to the president!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u109	Silence! Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u110	Thank you, President. I referred in my speech to the governments that have cases of corruption on the table, such as the Government of Andalusia. [[Rumors]] In any case, if the Socialist Group feels offended, I have no problem...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u111	Mr. Mena Arca, do you or do you not withdraw what Mr. Simancas has asked of you?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u112	I'm telling you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u113	I'm asking you to tell me whether you're withdrawing it or not, because your time has passed.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u114	If that intervention has offended the Socialist Group, I have no problem with withdrawing it, taking into account what I was explaining earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u115	Thank you very much. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to invoke, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Rule 71, to the extent that the speaker has made valuable judgments in respect of Members of my parliamentary group and members of my party who, of course, do not correspond to the decorum or the dignity of this House or to the political action that is appropriate. So I also ask the intervener to withdraw his words.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u117	Mr. Mena Arca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u118	Madam President, in this case there are convicted presidents and I therefore have nothing to withdraw. [[A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Exactly!]] Thank you. [[Applauds.-Mr.Echaniz Salgado asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u119	No, there's no more words. I now ask Mr Roldán Monés whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u120	President, we have made a proposal for an amendment incorporating some of the issues raised by the Socialist Party and others raised by the People's Party. There have been no more amendments and we will vote on that.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u121	Thank you very much. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can in common guarantee the right to a safe, free and free abortion for all women. [[File number 173/000108]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u122	We move on to the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning guaranteeing the right to safe, free and free abortion for all women. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u123	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, in the year when we know that the revolution is already feminist, my group brings this complete and comprehensive motion, which seeks to be a guide to the government on what to do about our reproductive rights. Complete, even extensive, yes - we have been told - with several points, because we have a country project for women and for society as a whole, we have seen how our citizenship is violated and we have thought about how we can defend it. Women want full citizenship and this will not happen as long as the right to a safe and free legal abortion is distorted, continuously obstructed. Full citizenship is that if I can work and marry at sixteen I can also voluntarily interrupt my pregnancy at sixteen or seventeen years without having to mediate the authorization of those who are my legal guardians. If we are concerned that a decision that is not simple is made without consulting the family, what needs to be looked at is what happens in that family, not how the State can force that communication. We will have to look into our education and culture, into the family as an institution. But if we don't see that a 16- or 17-year-old woman prefers, in the face of a voluntary termination of pregnancy, to go without the support of her family is because something happens in that family, and that forcing her to do so is deeply dissuasive, we will be condemning very young women to unwanted pregnancies or unsafe abortions. Full citizenship is that we are not being cared for or treated with paternalism, considering that when we go to a hospital for a voluntary termination of pregnancy we have not reflected enough and that we need three days to think. Of course, this is a tough, painful decision, because it hurts, it hurts physically; of course it is not easy. Why do we understand that this is being dealt with lightly? Why would we be frivolous with this and not anything else that affects our health and our lives? Why, if it is not for a structural, cultural, very imaginary issue, would we appear to be in the eyes of the state and the health system so completely irresponsible that three days earlier we do not know what we are doing, even though we have already made a decision? For this is because they weigh ideas on women, on our bodies, on our role in society and in our lives; because we keep dragging stigmas that make us oscillate between being silly or being bad. By the way, with regard to that sense of guardianship and childishness that women feel when they are going to make a voluntary interruption of their pregnancy, they also suffer something similar or feel something similar - they say it and we say it - many women that we have continued and continued with our pregnancy. So the problem has nothing to do with it and it has something else to do with it. I leave it here for your lordships to think about. Full citizenship is not to load with constructs that we lack rights. Full citizenship is the making of free and informed decisions about our body and that these are respected. And, with regard to those three days of reflection, it turns out that there has been a report since 2002, approved by the European Parliament, which is the Van Lancker report, which precisely has many aspects to do with better sex education for our children and adolescents; it has to do with emergency contraceptives, yes, but also much cheaper contraceptives; it has to do with unified criteria in data collection. We would already like all of this to be done in our country. What absolutely nothing says this report, which is approved by the European Parliament, is that they exist and are necessary for women to decide freely three days of reflection. Free and informed; we demand that women be duly informed of all types of abortion, instrumental or pharmacological, so that they can choose; because ignoring this, not giving choice or sparing rigorous information is obstetric violence; institutional violence when it is from the connivance, so far, of the health system. Better social information is something we also need and, therefore, we want an annual report on voluntary terminations of pregnancy that is more transparent and comprehensive by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. We need to include indicators on voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in situations of machist violence in the field of couples, sexual violence situations, women with functional diversity; and we need professionals who are going to be involved in the implementation of EVIs in public health facilities to have mandatory gender-based training. That's crazy, isn't it? Gender perspective to treat abortion, to treat women's reproductive health. I don't think we're saying anything that's absolutely not a drawer. In her book against patriarchy, feminist Maria Pazos writes the following: In the surveys, the average number of children that people want to have is 2.1, which is the ideal fertility rate for replenishment of the population. The problem is that people cannot afford it and, in addition, they want to force those who, even so, do not want to have it. The fight against unwanted pregnancy is being given by the Argentine sisters, she has been freed by the Irish compañeras and continues to fight women in many parts of the world to conquer that right. That conquest in Spain was achieved by the feminist movement; and when it has been in dispute and in question, the feminist movement, the freedom train - and I look at the socialist bench because we have very clear our genealogy and also our recent memory - has gone out into the street and laid nothing less than a minister to make it clear. With some questions of the materialization of our right, steps have been taken; let us recover them. And yes, of course, here we raise many things that the law already says, but this law - and the Socialist Group's ladies and gentlemen know it, the government knows it - has failed. We come to this House to remember that this cannot be for the best time, and this opportunity was already discussed in the 1970s when the feminist movement said that this right had to be guaranteed, armored in the Constitution. Let us not lose the opportunity now to rethink the rights to full citizenship for women in this country. We also do this for another reason, we bring this motion for another reason: to make it very clear to the most reactionary People's Party, that it wants to advise women not to abort - I don't know, perhaps you could have thought of all the cuts you have made, the brutal cuts for the life of society as a whole and, above all, for women and perhaps then you would have shown that lives and families matter to them even a little bit - that we are not going to take a step back - and we want to make it clear to the People's Party - that we do not want a single regression in our rights. We have citizenship to win, and we are not going to let it stop us or nail us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the year when it has become clear that the revolution is already feminist. We saw it this weekend, without going any further, in Xixon, with hundreds of women walking towards 8-M 2019. The revolution is already feminist and it is time for your lordships to know and govern and legislate according to this historic moment that we are not going to renounce. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u124	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Miquel i Valenti spoke first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u125	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. From the Democratic Party we celebrate the arrival of this initiative in the House. We certainly believe that the reform done by President Rajoy in 2015 is not only an aberration, but also a tremendous injustice against those women who decide to do with their bodies whatever they like and have their right to do so. That is why we welcome this initiative and also consider it urgent because the current situation is causing very serious harm to the women of this country. We have tabled an amendment because we believe it is interesting to get out of this situation and reach a consensus in this House. We propose to return to the consensus of 2010, when those women who from the age of sixteen decided freely to face a tough process, possibly one of the toughest moments in life that a woman must face. We were planting this amendment on the proposing group. I do not know whether they have looked at it because the rapporteur has never referred to our amendment, but in any case we hope to have news and to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u127	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by recalling that in every voluntary abortion a human life like any of us is eliminated and that the result of the free, unhindered exercise of a woman's right to decide not to want to be a mother entails, ladies and gentlemen, the death of her own child. If we close our eyes to this terrible reality, we will be limiting the moral field of vision of the decision to abort a human life as unique and as unrepeatable as any of our own. Parents, ladies and gentlemen, we wait nine months to meet our children. But will you tell me, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, that if we know them prematurely, they are not our children? Five months from a pregnancy, ladies and gentlemen, what are they? [[A honourable Member: Come now!]] You advocate for more freedom in the decision to abort a human life, but at the same time this morning you present a bill to change the paradigm and generate a cultural change so that violence against children is not tolerable to any extent and that a cachet is seen as a failure of the educator. I quote this textually. Well, that's fine with me. I encourage you to extend that defense to the extreme of childhood when that child has not yet been born, when that same cultural paradigm leads him irreparably to death. Be brave, at least be consistent. Expanding abortion, ladies and gentlemen, is not a social advance, it is a setback. Where's your left-wing commitment to the weakest? Not one of the twenty proposals of his motion protects and defends the life of the most innocent and most defenceless human being. I, ladies and gentlemen, in any case do not lose hope. As long as there is a person, whether famous or not, who in the face of this dilemma can thank his mother for the decision to give him life, I am convinced that this cultural paradigm of today can be reversed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u128	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Pick it up on. For Euskal Herria Bildu feminism must be one of the principles that guides us in the construction of a sovereign Basque State, just and socially committed. We therefore consider it necessary to defend and respect women's human rights. Sexual and reproductive rights should be considered basic rights, particularly the right to free, safe and free abortion, which as such should be guaranteed to all women. The attempt to control women's bodies is as old as patriarchy and the illegality of abortion is in turn a patriarchal injustice that violates the rights of thousands of women in the world, more so for those most vulnerable because of their social, economic or administrative situation. In turn, the denial of this right continues to cause thousands of clandestine abortions with the consequent risk of death for many of these women, a greater risk to the most discriminated against, the poorest, those who lack the resources to carry it out privately in safe conditions. A Government that wants to be considered truly democratic must protect women's lives, meet their integral health needs and guarantee their right to decide. A state that is called secular must remove the influence of Judeo-Christian morality emanating from the Catholic Church, of marked macho character. For this reason, we will support the motion to debate convinced in Euskal Herria Bildu that it is our duty to defend the rights of all women over their bodies by helping to remove the barriers that seek to hinder and hinder the exercise of the right to those who are younger and more vulnerable. It must be a right for all women, and as long as Euskal Herria is not completely sovereign we will continue to defend from this Congress the right to decide on our bodies and sexuality that we women have as a question of social justice, of feminist justice for all and without exception. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u130	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u131	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing our support, that of my group, for the Member of the People's Party, Mrs Escudero. Today, in addition to suffering from Mr Rufián's lack of respect, he has had to endure his Machist attitudes. [[Applauds]] From my group, Citizens, we will always condemn these kinds of attitudes, come from whom they come and address whom they address. There are debates that Spanish society has already overcome, debates on which one can say that there is already a certain social consensus, issues that do not pose a problem for the majority of Spaniards, but which instead are used to revive old passions, most of the time for electoral purposes. With all due respect to the initiative put forward, I believe that the issue of this motion, the voluntary termination of pregnancy, lends itself to all this which I am explaining. The debate on decriminalization... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u132	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u133	The debate on the decriminalization of abortion has long been held in Spain. It was in 1985, thirty-three years ago, and after that another one arrived, the debate on how to do so by granting security to women and professionals, guaranteeing their rights. Another consensus was also reached, which led to a statute of deadlines, the 2010 law. Perhaps at that time the consensus did not seem so broad among the parliamentary forces. We all know that the People's Party voted against and appealed to the Constitutional Court, but over time it was shown that this consensus did occur in Spanish society. Let's remember what happened there in 2014, when the People's Party, with Minister Gallardón at the head, tried to reopen this debate with a bill that brought us back to 1985. Do you remember what you brought with you? The resignation of the then Minister of Justice, Mr Ruiz-Gallardón. Many women, as well as men, went out on the street to prevent that bill from coming forward. It was Mariano Rajoy himself, then president of the government, who pulled out of the polls of the moment asked that this law should not be processed, given the lack of social acceptance. The People's Party was then aware that it did not even have the support of the majority of its voters; that was why that law had to be withdrawn. We shall see what happens now with the presidency of Mr Casado, who says he wants to return to the consensus of the 1980s. I would tell him that even if he wants to live in 1980, Spain has evolved. It's okay for you to want to live in the eighties - laws won't stop you - but don't try to stop the rest of us from living in 2018, in the 21st century. Going back over and over on already overtaken debates prevents us from looking to the future, that we continue to move forward. I do not want to say that there is no need to improve certain issues raised in this initiative - of course we have to do this - and what is happening is that we sincerely believe that the debate should no longer be abortion, yes or abortion, as the People's Party continues to raise, but neither, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, should be that of chastity or abortion, which seems to be the result of the initiative they are presenting. That, let me tell you, perhaps it is even older than what Mr Casado proposes. This motion has twenty points and in none of them - although Mrs Castañón has mentioned it - we are talking about reproductive and sexual health. Let us talk about voluntary termination of pregnancy, yes, but let us do so by addressing reproductive health in general, taking into account the reality of our country, which, by the way, is very different depending on the autonomous community in which we are. Let us talk about it, but let us also talk about methods of contraception, which, by the way, as our society has evolved a lot since 1985. You will know, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, and the rest of the parliamentary groups, that the 2010 law on reproductive and sexual health carried with it a national strategy setting out concrete actions on pregnancy prevention or improving accessibility to these methods. That strategy, moreover, had to be evaluated, was established by the law itself; it had been eight years and no trace of that evaluation. How are we gonna get better? How will we know whether the law is effectively enforced or whether these policies are effective? Why are laws not enforced? Interestingly, this also happens with other laws affecting women such as the 2007 Equality Act. It's more of the same. It is, of course, necessary to ensure, when the case comes, that voluntary interruptions of pregnancy can be carried out in public health and that our amendments are aimed at this, but a real strategy is also needed to prevent many women from having to get to that situation. That's why we include so many others who pick it up. Data on the rate of voluntary termination of pregnancy have varied very little from 2006 to 2016, and many of these women, almost 37%, say that neither they nor their partners use contraceptive methods, a very high figure. Moreover, the thing, as I said, varies enormously from one autonomous community to another. Inequality is truly striking. Only six autonomous communities have carried out family planning campaigns; only six of them train all professionals. There is also a tremendous difference in the financing of contraceptive methods; only four condoms are financed under certain conditions, four other intrauterine devices are not financed and six other autonomous communities are not covered by the day-after pill. Interestingly, the least funded, those that have not addressed a specific plan and those that have not campaigned are the communities that have the highest rate of voluntary terminations of pregnancy. From my Citizens group we believe that an effective national strategy is needed to talk about all this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u134	Mrs. Reyes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u135	I'm done, President. That is why we have already tabled an initiative in the Committee on Health, and that is why, in the spirit of complementing this motion, we want to reach a compromise. Let's hope the United Group can accept it. I do not want to leave without asking you to reflect on a few words that you have said, Mrs Castañón has said, making free and informed decisions about our bodies. They should always be present. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u136	Mrs Álvarez Álvarez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u137	Quiet, please. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Mrs Castañón, the guide to follow in relation to abortion is not this proposal, it is the law of 2010, have no doubt. We are faced with an initiative in which most of the proposals focus more on strategies of the proposing group to seek spaces for their political action than to demand solutions to problems arising from the practice of legal and safe abortion in Spain. We are, of course, pleased that they are demanding the law of the Socialist Government to regain the capacity to grant consent for the voluntary termination of pregnancy to 16- and 17-year-old women. I would like to remind you that that article, ladies and gentlemen, was an example of political intelligence at a time without majorities to seek consensus and give a reasoned, constitutional and practical solution to all the interests at stake in this matter. The People's Party counter-reform recently deprived minors of the right to decide whether or not they want to be mothers and did so because they needed to make an offering to fundamentalism. We know that every time the right needs to bring together its most extremist members and redefine its identity ideal, it always offers in sacrifice the autonomy of women over their bodies and their lives. Gallardón has tried and is now proposed by Mr. García Eggea and Mr. Casado, those new leaders who come with very old recipes; recipes as old as proposing ephemeral support to pregnant women, but that, as we have already seen in the communities where they govern, is only the alibi to financially support the anti-right organizations that need to join their ranks. This parliamentary group, this political party and this Government are involved in recomposing the social rights and citizenship damage that the right-wing governments have done, putting them at risk. We amend his proposal because the right to EVI for migrant women in irregular administrative situations is already included in the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018, on universal access to the National Health System. We amend because they call for action that is not within the competence of the Government of Spain and others are already in the law itself. They ask, for example, that abortions of rape-related cases be recorded in the IVE notification bulletin, but I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we already have a deadline law in this country. We have fought many decades to get it, and in this law women should not explain why they are aborting. In addition, the current emergency contraception measures prevent pregnancy from occurring in cases of rape, so that in 2010, ladies and gentlemen, they represented only 0.01 %. With regard to the three-day reflection period set out in article 14 of the Act, we would like to remind you that this measure is set out in all the rules on the voluntary termination of pregnancy in the countries of our environment and that it is also a measure that guarantees the constitutionality of the Act. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it would be more appropriate, as we proposed to you by amendment, to ensure that the provision of information and the period of reflection cannot be used to convey ideological elements which are not directly linked to the decision-making process of women, as is the case, for example, in the Madrid Community. We also amend to effectively develop the so-called territorial health police interlocutor to ensure the protection of women and professionals against harassment; we have already announced to them that we are of course considering specific measures in this area. Mrs Fernández Castañón, you have just voted in Andalusia against the Equality Act. His spokesman there has grasped the pilgrim justification that they voted against the Equality Act because abortions are not done in the public, but I ask you to convey to Mrs Teresa Rodríguez that in Andalusia and throughout Spain abortions are done in accredited clinics, with qualified professionals, with the lowest rates of morbidity in the world and, of course, free, accessible and safe. [[Applauds]] So don't use abortion to look for spaces you shouldn't touch. I understand, of course, that you are looking for that political gap, but I will make a recommendation to you: Don't do it by putting women's rights at risk or by using them tortically because that will always turn you against them. I believe that you have many issues to address within your organization in the area of equality before you come to learn from public management, from access to rights that have worked flawlessly and guaranteed the right to abortion for decades in a safe and accessible way. I'm finishing up. The will of this group is that we be able to guarantee in a lasting way, with solvent and unquestionable laws and norms, the rights achieved; for that, they must be constitutional norms. We are sure and sure that we can make this journey together, provided that they do not intend to question what works, works well, does not generate social conflict and gives satisfaction to the real needs of women. Looking for a political gap cannot be done at the expense of looking for ghosts where there are no ghosts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u140	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u141	Let me begin my intervention on the motion following urgent inquiry by the confederal group on safe, free and free abortion for all women with a small warning, a kind of previous question that does not cease to be a council, although it must be supported or shared at all: do not submit motions of twenty points, it is counterproductive. I say it with a more conciliatory spirit than anything else, I say it because my group has told PSOE once and a hundred times, which was the one with the yellow jersey on the subject with its famous three- and five-page motions-program. No writing. We believe that it is neither concitator nor consensus nor legislatively manageable to agree and coincide with a motion of such a dimension and diversity because it is easier not to coincide in some of the points than vice versa. We believe that it is better to focus on specific issues, focusing the objective on a central and priority issue that gives meaning and coherence to the text presented and, moreover, because the motion is a tool with a journey that those of us who have been here for three years know that it is very short. What is the central issue in our view of the motion you have put forward? It should revolve around the first of the points, as has been raised here, an issue which, as a group, the PNV defended and will defend without any problem. The People's Party amended two articles of the law without consensus and with its political hypocrisy. I say political hypocrisy because it is not an insult, but a finding of a reality, because they changed what they did not believe and did not change what they wanted. They did so after a sound failure recognized with his facts when the president himself dismissed the minister because he did not dare to officially introduce the bill they had to amend the existing abortion law. The object of the modification were only two points that have been mentioned here, that of age was exactly the central point. And I told him from this rostrum: that was a very important qualitative leap from the People's Party because they did not question everything else; so, somehow they had already agreed to normalize the deadlines of the possibility of abortion when necessary. They appealed in their proposal to what the Civil Code says: the obligation of parents to care for their children, accompany them, protect them, etc. But I think that the People's Party perversely turned to the meaning of the article of the Civil Code by interpreting the object of the legislator in a contrary way, that we were all on the subject when the abortion law was passed. Precisely because not all families offer what the Civil Code says, we had to put in place that some people could abort without the consent of their parents, because that consent was quite the opposite, because precisely they could not seek their consent because the problems that would result were much greater. Because we're not talking about normal families, those families that we all understand that when someone has that need, they will definitely come. We are talking about broken families, families with violence, families with problems in which the information itself would have generated more problems. We therefore do not support that proposal made by the People's Party. And today we have this motion, in which, I repeat, the first point prompted consensus - and some other partner has already said it before me - but raises another number of points that go beyond... And Mrs Castañón, I tell you clearly and also with the cordiality that we have, your statements sometimes remind me of complexes that you think we have others. But it's not like that. We have no need to ideologicalize certain issues and give them an environment to see that they are due and can be done legislatively. And as they present twenty points and some of them obviously we do not share them - Mrs Álvarez has also said - as the three-day issue, which is something that is in the legislation of all the abortion laws and deadlines that exist in Western Europe; therefore, there is no need to change it. Let us go to what we truly consented to; let us go to what was truly settled, in a way, with other majorities, and let us return to what united us in that law which we supported and which cost us ours, but which was the work of much effort, a work which I will remember for what I assumed. When someone tried to reconcile and give in fact the need that many women had to be able to abort and the law did not allow it, it changed. In addition, some of the issues you raise are not the competence of this chamber, they are the competence of the Autonomous Communities. Others are almost regulatory and it is not up to us to make the regulations. I therefore believe that in view of this issue, we are either moving towards what we truly agree on or will never reach consensus on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u142	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are discussing in this House one of the fundamental pillars of the feminist struggle, the right to free, safe and free abortion. Every woman has to be able to decide about her own body and about her motherhood freely and safely, without coercion. We must protect and guarantee the sexual and reproductive rights of women and that is partly achieved through the total decriminalization of abortion. With the ultra-conservative reform of Gallardón in 2014, women witnessed how our rights went back to the 1970s. We women are tired of this patriarchal society that wants to control our life and our body by decree and with the complicity of the Catholic Church. This reform has been nothing but recklessness and foolishness and has been used as a tool to endanger the health of many women and criminalize us. Thanks to the Government of the People's Party, women were condemned to return to hiding and to travel to other countries to carry out voluntary abortion. Thanks to the People's Party, women saw how they questioned our ability to decide through the imposition of a period of reflection that has been used as an instrument of paternalistic coercion. The solution was not to victimize and criminalize women, but to implement policies of contraception, emotional and sexual education and to provide more resources to guarantee the right to be mothers. Women want to be able to abort under safe conditions within the public health system and without being criminalized. As we have repeated tirelessly, the Republican Left of Catalonia wants a law of deadlines and not of assumptions. We demand the universal nature and inclusion of all women from the age of sixteen without any discrimination by the country of origin. The Government cannot turn its back on this claim or on the need to raise public awareness of the need for safe and free abortion in the face of the dangers of illegal abortion. It is our duty to return to a law that interprets motherhood as something free, desired, happy and responsible. For all this, our vote will be in favour. It's our body, we decided. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs Alba Mullor has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I want to say that neither palm trees nor flower trees; no woman is, as my colleague Beatriz Escudero had to remind you in the face of the clamorous silence of some and some. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, this initiative is not new, you have already taken it forward a few months ago with the PSOE - now in the government - and with the abstention of Citizens and the PNV, by the way. It is not necessary for you to bring it back, it would be sufficient for you to carry it out, to carry out what you have agreed to or what you have agreed to. And no, indeed, we are not going to vote for this initiative, as you would expect, of course, because you are still making the same mistakes as in the non-law proposal we discussed in your day and because abortion, ladies and gentlemen, is not a right in any way, not even in Organic Law 2/2010, which establishes the right to maternity freely decided - yes, a right that is recognized - and guarantees the right to the benefits contained therein, but in no way expressly recognizes the right to abort. Not even the government of Rodriguez Zapatero came that far. Ladies and gentlemen, abortion is not a right, it is a failure, and the obligation of the public authorities is to give all their support to women who are going to be mothers. The ruling of the People's Party in Castile-La Mancha approved an operational programme of support for motherhood, an initiative that this parliamentary group intends to bring to this House. There you have the opportunity to position yourself. In fact, they can already do so in that community in which they rule. Are they going to keep applying it? Are you going to ignore him? Without going further, today my group has brought to this plenary the possibility that you yourselves will draw up a bill to support the family. Are you going to pick up the glove or are you going to keep ignoring the families in our country? Focusing on their proposals, they do not differ much from what they have already approved and continue to make the same mistakes. You continue to pretend that a minor needs the express consent of his legal representatives for a dental extraction or to make a tattoo, but not for a vital and transcendent decision such as an abortion. Accepting this would lead to absurd consequences that I have already revealed to you in your day and that you have not made clear to me. What would happen, for example, to medical negligence in the practice of abortion? Who would be legitimized to claim that damage? Did the parents, who neither consented nor knew, or the minor, who lacks the capacity to do so? Mrs Fernández Castañón, you are still making bulwark errors, which the minister herself had to take out last week. He literally stated that it cannot be understood that a benefit such as voluntary termination of pregnancy is not included in the National Health System service portfolio. Indeed, you cannot understand why it is collected, because it is not true what you said. He also stated that 80% of abortions performed in Spain are carried out by private clinics and continued to claim that women pay for these interventions because they are not provided for public health. Again false and misbred the date. In his appearance before the Equality Commission last July of the association of authorized clinics for the termination of pregnancy, what we were told was that 90% of the activity of these centers comes from public health, paid by it through concerts or other formulas according to the autonomous community. Only 10% of women pay for these interventions, and that is because Organic Law 2/2010, which seems not to have been read by you, guarantees it. You base much of your subsequent inquiry and motion on the data transferred to us by the association of abortion clinics, but you have not taken the report as a whole, but only that which strengthens your initiative. In that appearance and in the information provided to all the members of the Equality Commission it is literally said that in Spain the rate of complications resulting from abortion is the lowest in the world and continues to say that it has been possible to offer Spanish women a safe and quality abortion within the legal parameters. What's left of that black Spain you paint every time you can? And, by the way, on the line of this, I regret the words addressed a few minutes ago to the president of my party and to members of it, disrespect and education, when you are precisely not exemplary. [[Applauds]] But I'm going on. You continue to propose that any woman may freely abort, except those who have been victims of rape or gender-based violence, for whom there is no privacy or confidentiality, and will enter through an assumption that saves all others who can abort within the deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the PSOE who eliminated the alleged rape, it was not the People's Party, perhaps in order not to revictimize the victims, and perhaps because since there are statistics this alleged only represented 0.1 or 0.02%. You again insist that the reserved data of women who abort cease to be so and be recorded in their clinical history. You contradict even Organic Law 2/2010, which guarantees the privacy of women and the confidentiality of their data. We don't think it's going to make much fun of the women who see themselves in this trance that their data is reflected in the clinical history thanks to a Podemos initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party amended the Penal Code in 2015 so that no woman could go to jail for abortion outside the legal framework. The PSOE passed a mixed statute of time limits, but it penalized certain conduct in which a woman could be involved, and it was the People's Party that corrected this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is one thing to preach and another to give wheat, and you are preaching out loud, but when it comes to truly guaranteeing women's rights, they look at our benches, which are the ones that have ensured that no adolescent will be seen alone in a trance like this, there are mechanisms to safeguard his will when the situation of ill-treatment or family coercion exists, and those that have ensured that no woman who aborts out of time or is supposed to go to prison, yes, offering alternatives, support and help to those who decide to continue with her pregnancy; we will shortly present an initiative in that direction, as the president of my party has already advanced. That's the difference between you and us. The People's Parliamentary Group defends the freedom of all people and you seek to eliminate and limit the duties of parental authority, eliminate the privacy of women who decide to abort, eliminate the privacy of women who suffer violence or rape, revictimize them against anyone else who can abort without having to explain, and re-centralize the competences of the autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u146	Mrs. Alba, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u147	I conclude as I did in the Committee on Equality: ladies and gentlemen, there we are not going to be found. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u148	I ask Mrs Fernández Castañón whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u149	Well, even if it's hard to believe, we're still working on a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u150	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to the object of knowing when the Minister of Justice is to resign and, in the event of failure to do so, to agree on its own motion. [[File number 173/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u151	Let us move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, in order to know when the Minister of Justice will resign, and in the event that she fails to do so, that her ceases immediately. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before we begin, I would like to express my full support for my colleague Beatriz Escudero, who is, as we all know, a great fighter and so must continue. [[Applauds]] Javier Gomá says that in 2009 the concept of exemplaryness was not in our country's cultural climate and that in two years it became a currency of current course. Today exemplary -2009 - and socialist ministers of justice have a bit edifying and tortuous thread that we wish it had not occurred. For those who speak to you, a career civil servant, it is painful to have to raise this motion here on the resignation of the Minister of Justice, because there has been no exemplaryness either in his professional career as a prosecutor or in his brief months as a minister. After several petitions, all based on facts contrasted and admitted by the minister herself, we arrived on 9 October with no more than a transfer of blame to its press officials. This motion is therefore based on the claim of political responsibilities to a public servant on a double basis: for very reprehensible facts known and not denied about her professional career as a prosecutor and for those who have taken place in the exercise of her office and political function in the last three months, in particular since she decided to abandon Judge Llarena's fate and not to defend the Spanish jurisdictional immunity immediately before the Belgian courts. In 2009, they bring some of the facts that lead us today to demand that the President of the Government comply with his own prescription of ethical requirement and exemplaryness. [[Rumors]] As I have already said, we have been concerned about the background of the appointed Minister of Justice from the outset. His first steps, completely unrelated to his words in taking office, troubled us until we reached the alarm and the painful confirmation that he was not the right person to be part of the Government of Spain. The still unprovoked Minister Delgado abandoned the priorities that she had to assume as responsible for Justice. He ignored that his institutional position was to set aside his ideology and personal interests and that the ministry could not become a branch of the Fibgar Foundation or a professional office. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u153	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u154	He ignored that friendships are left at the door and that they cannot mark the lines of work or the objectives of a ministry. When we said that one of those friendships had become a hand in the shadow of that ministry we pointed to an iceberg, and gradually it has come out with investigations that bring to light behaviors of absence of exemplaryness at least; the prosecution and the judges will have to say later if they suppose anything else. Many of the actions and omissions of Minister Delgado alone are serious enough to request her resignation, and so have my parliamentary group and the chairman of my party. The whole of what has been done and omitted in three months of performance of the post and its painful precedents do not believe that they have a parallel in democratic history, however much that perverse union of friendship occurs between those who had to resign as Minister of Justice in 2009 and their participation in hunts, meals and dinners that placed it under suspicion and today we know that also in uneducating scenarios. Do not tell me later that we are talking about recordings of before being a minister, obtained perhaps in a reprehensible way and known by the work of not knowing who, because in any case the recordings exist and show us meetings admitted by the interested one and conversations, insults, insidiations and settlements that happened there and that they can receive various ratings, all of them alien to the exemplaryness that is peculiar to a public servant. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u155	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u156	The one you set up - do you remember? - because someone supposedly quoted a minister in a recorded conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times do we use a person's name in vain in our daily conversations, especially when this human feeling of believing that we are more important if we assume contacts? What we're witnessing right now is something very instinctive. So do not be tempted to keep turning the earth aside so that it may fall upon others. The minister, in the interpellation, has already done enough to defend the indefensible. Using the technique of an attack is the best defense, and for this it again lied and was attributed a non-existent job, a ministry action and attention to the minimum justice sector. At this time it is public and notorious that has lied repeatedly, and when you lie, ladies and gentlemen, it is because you hide and fear that you will know the truth. Spanish and Spanish justice cannot wake up every day with the fear of what scandal that day is or is remembered by the Minister of Justice. Whoever has to ensure the good health of that pillar of our rule of law, which is justice, cannot be under the magnifying glass of his relations with the cloacas, and I use the terminology of Mr. Iglesias. [[Shows a press clipping.-Rumors]] Since she arrived at the ministry, Minister Delgado stopped worrying about justice to mark a strange road map with a single common denominator or a single reference person: creating a truth commission, as the Garzón lawyer's foundation defends; supporting Garzón lawyer's courses instead of attending those promoted by the Ministry of Justice... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u157	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u158	..., redirect universal justice to the line of interest of the Ilocad office or create an advisory council on universal justice composed of the main plan of the foundation and the Garzón office, the same one that defended the interests of Mr Pérez-Maura and on which, curiously, he intervened as prosecutor assuming literally the report of lawyer Vergara Céspedes, today a member of the upcoming advisory council. [[Applauds]] It is therefore completely absent, ladies and gentlemen, from the exemplary and minimal demands of any public official or political official, even more so if he is a prosecutor or Minister of Justice. Today, ladies and gentlemen, judges and prosecutors do not consider her an interlocutor. Some colleagues have asked for rectification of their words, because it is so bad to attribute crimes if they are not true as not to report them if they were certain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, transparency, exemplaryness, feminism are not a question of empty words, they are a question of facts. Would you like to say to me, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, what deserved so much applause at last plenary session? To count among your ministers someone who does not defend the judges, who puts under the magnifying glass of suspicion the prosecutors, who does not care about their needs, who denigrates his colleagues, who congratulates himself on the use of women? [[Show a photo]] It is not possible that the minister is a minute longer. [[Applauds]] The public explanations are not enough, they are contradictory, they imply confirmation that the meetings of the recordings have occurred, even others with the commissioner Villarejo, up to three recognized in unusual communiqué of the ministry of 24 September and of contents today ignored. We will not be marked the agenda - says President Sánchez - a corrupt.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u159	Mrs. Moro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u160	I'll be done right away, President. But it is not the case, Mr President, that the agenda is marked by not having properly chosen the people who make up her Government, that the minister intends to use her ministry as a branch of an office, that she abandons and discredits the judges, that she undermines the image of justice vis-à-vis the Spaniards, vis-à-vis the outside world, and that she uses a language that denigrates and is homophobic. Therefore, because of the gravity of the circumstances that deteriorate not the image of the minister, not the image of the PSOE, not the image of the government, which also, but the image and prestige of the Spanish institutions and justice, this House has to pronounce itself and has to now ask for the immediate resignation or the cessation by the president. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u161	Thank you. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u162	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Given the limited length of our time, I will focus - the truth is that the minister's story would fill an entire library - on what interests our group most, which is the issue of Judge Llarena. If a good thing has this attempt at reprobation is to bring to light this kind of performance, which I suppose no one will define as normal. Facts: The minister says that the judge has made personal, non-public statements, and will therefore not have State assistance. Two days later: State assistance is possible, but, being particular statements, what will be done will be to hire a law firm. A few days later: It is a very important state issue and will be allocated 500 000 euros to help the legal defense of Judge Llarena. This doesn't need any more explanation to make us realize the game of nonsense that it means. I am not saying that we are in front of a failed state, but it is obvious that this state has many failures, and it seems obvious that the minister represents it. Will other officials besides Judge Llarena have the fortune in the future to receive state protection when they have a conflict abroad? Is this a precedent from now on? I guess everyone has the answer in their heads: No, of course not. This is an exceptional act done to a friend who is doing a hard job for the Spanish State. The underlying problem is this, obviously. Transparency is not so important, in this case transparency in public procurement - they will tell me where they come from and how these €500,000 are attributed for the defence of Llarena without there being any kind of competition - when the value to be defended is the unity of Spain. Legality is not so important, because a higher value to defend is the unity of Spain. Justice is not important, because a value to defend higher than justice is that of the unity of Spain. And equity is not important, because a judge who defended Catalonia's self-determination in a private conversation well that was suspended, but when it is defended otherwise it is not. Therefore, equity is not important, it is a higher value the unity of Spain. Gentlemen, that doesn't solve anything. It's not that the Catalan issue is not solved, it's that those things - and I look at the banks on the left - you know when they start, but not when they end, and you know who they start with, but you don't know who they end with. I would ask the Spanish State how far it is prepared to take steps back in democratic values. If you continue to take such steps, if you continue to make extensive interpretations of the laws as gums, if you are disqualified by the most advanced countries in Europe, where crimes are denied that here, instead, you are sentenced to between twenty and thirty years, if a judge is protected by particular statements while another is condemned by particular statements as well, but to the contrary, you will end up having a Ministry of Justice that will have the same meaning as a marine ministry in Switzerland or Luxembourg. This is how you will end up if you step back on the path of democracy in Spain. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u163	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still more than an hour left in plenary. Please, be quiet. It is impossible to be here, in the Chamber, and to listen to the speaker with this background murmur. I would ask all those who do not want to listen to the speaker to please leave the Chamber. I won't say it again.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u164	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a motion by the People's Parliamentary Group calling for the immediate resignation of the Minister of Justice, with the President of the Government subsidizing his resignation. I have already said that this Basque Parliamentary Group will not support this motion. We do not share the fact that the minister is left behind both in the inquiry and in the motion, both in the position taken in the case against Mr Llarena in Belgium, and in the fact that she did not disallow members of the Government and high-ranking officials who reflected on the desirability of provisional release of those who were pre-emptive in the case against political leaders of the so-called Catalan process or on a hypothetical exercise of the right of grace. The minister's resignation is also claimed, as it is said, for not registering administrative activity at the head of her ministry and, finally, the minister is accused of her relationship with a - it is said - former senior police officer investigated by the National High Court and in pre-trial detention; a police officer who, by the way, was never a high-ranking officer, whom the People's Parliamentary Group now repudiates and who has not long ago, in this same legislature, the former Minister of the Interior, who was investigated by the Commission of Inquiry into the Partisan Use of the Police, recognized great merits and even justified the pensioned medal he was awarded while he was a minister; a police officer who also, with the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group, was shielded from appearing before that Commission of Inquiry, despite the many indications and directions that pointed out him as part of the ministerial themes, precisely, against what has come to be called the Catalan process. He draws attention to the fact that the clothes are now torn by a meal nine years ago, in which certainly language and attitudes were not exemplary, but in which nothing was dealt with judicial matters in which any of the diners were involved. You, the People's Parliamentary Group, have brought back to this House the Catalan question, which is what really lies at the heart of this motion. They know our position on the Llarena case. I would remind you that we do not share the view that your defence in Belgium should in any case be the responsibility of the State, on the grounds that only the jurisdictional immunity of the State is clarified and that it is an instrumental demand for the Spanish justice system to be brought into jeopardy. What is underlying, from our point of view - and we have already said this - in this decision of the Government is that Judge Llarena, both in his private sphere and in his office, acts as the embodiment of an idea of Spain that cannot be called into question by questioning his impartiality with regard to the accused in the process he himself directed. We do not believe that immunity from jurisdiction is defended and we do not believe that a demand is being used to attack it; quite the contrary, it is the State, from our point of view, that is instrumentalizing the judiciary with its tacit and sometimes express consent to put it at the service of a concrete idea of Spain, making an arguable use of the criminal types and of its own language by using expressions as a coup d'état. Nor do we share the claim that the Minister of Justice should publicly rebut, as requested, other members of the Government and senior officials, as we share her thoughts on pre-trial detention and the use, where appropriate, of the right of grace. Finally, and with regard to the ministry's alleged lack of administrative activity, this is a moot issue, especially given that the ministerial team has barely been in charge for a hundred days, and to which the minister has in any case responded in the interpellation. From our point of view, this issue is a mere patch in the way of alignment in a process of harassment and the overthrow of ministers, in which this parliamentary group does not like to participate and which has so much spread in this XII Legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, allow me to use this motion to address you to the extent that I can move some Republican position that we will try to convey to you also, the day we can, to the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez. It is clear that we are going to vote against what the Group of the European People's Party is asking for, but it is also true that we are going to abstain, because the waste picker in which it has become... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u167	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u168	... the Spanish political and judicial system has many responsibilities. It is clear that the deterioration of the Spanish political and judicial system has manifested itself very sharply in recent times in relation to Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Is it not a wasteland that a democracy, which has never been seen in Europe since the end of the Second World War, imprisons candidates for democratic elections? In any free market society, capitalist, has happened what has happened in the Spanish State, that is, that a government has passed a real decree in order to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u169	Mr. Tardà, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will even suspend the plenary session, but I am not prepared to continue with the murmur we have had over the last hour and a half. At three o'clock in the afternoon there is no murmur, at eight or eight and a half there is murmur. I ask all those who do not want to listen, all those who do not want to occupy their seats, to please leave the Chamber. Go on, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u170	Thank you. He said that in no free market society...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u171	And, please, take your seats! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u172	I don't know exactly what I was saying, but I think I was going for.. [[laughs]] Oh, it's true! It's so fat what they did that it's impossible for you to forget. He said that in no free market society - a capitalist society - in Europe was given what has been given here, for example, and this is synonymous with manure. That is, that a company could relocate its head office without the permission of the shareholders' board, of the owners, only with the approval of the administrators, of those hired by the owners, has not been given in any free market society. In any society has the head of state done what the Bourbon has done here, personally calling Catalan companies, demanding them to take a stand? Has the government in any European society withdrawn billions of Catalan banks to pressure them, and to exert some economic terror against the population? This has not been the case in any democratic society, so one can say - perhaps we can be accused of exaggerating a little, although I do not think so - that we live in a wasteland, democratic; fortunately it is democratic. It could be worse; in fact it will be worse the day that Mr. Married governs, if one day he governs, the same Mr. Married who threatened to remind us of the death of Lluís Companies. So the situation has many responsible, and I will never say or dare to imagine that you are as responsible as they are, it would be an insult to intelligence, but it is true that there is only one solution: to recognize that the democratic quality of this Spanish State is touching minimums and that a solution must be sought. The solution inevitably goes also through Catalonia; in fact we reaffirm ourselves in the idea. It is worth reviewing the history of the Spanish State, the history of Catalonia, the history of all the nations of the current Spanish State. If you are not able to tackle the problem of Catalonia, seeking a democratic solution that allows all the citizens of Catalonia to be protagonists of the same solution, it will be your political grave. It is true, it is impossible today to build a democratic society of excellence, that is to say, to move away from the barter, if the conflict that exists today is not resolved, the fracture that certainly exists between Catalonia and the Kingdom of Spain. So we say to you what we will say a thousand and one times to the President of the Government and the Socialist Group: Republican left hands to find a democratic solution, and we are prepared to negotiate the budgets; we are prepared to negotiate the budgets, but you have to do what we have also asked you to do, that is to say to make it clear that you are giving up - yes, I say you are giving up - revenge and scaring, and this means urging the State Attorney General to act. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u173	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, today we are debating the motion resulting from the urgent inquiry that took place here last week. First of all, I want to tell you a little frustration. I had hoped, at the beginning of this afternoon, that today the minister would be here witnessing this motion, in such an important debate. I believe that with your presence you would show that you have respect for this institution, and that what is being debated here today is important and that it affects you. Unfortunately, we do not have his presence or that of any member of the Government. That is a delegitimization of the institutions. [[Applauds]] The circumstances that led us to this motion date back to the end of August. On that date, one afternoon on Thursday, August 23, the Ministry of Justice announced that it would not support Judge Llarena to defend himself from a strange civil suit that expressor Puigdemont and other ex-counselors escaped from justice had filed against him in Belgium. That Thursday afternoon, surely thinking that being a Thursday and of August would go absolutely unnoticed, a note is published by the ministry in which it is clearly stated that, in the face of private demonstrations carried out by Judge Llarena before which the government cannot act, since it would mean defending a private individual for private statements that even in Spain could be the object of some kind of action against him, the ministry did not contemplate the possibility of assuming the defense of Judge Llarena. This note is published on Thursday, 23 August. On Friday, the content of that note was ratified and justified by the Vice-President of the Government, who said that the protection of any member of the judiciary fell to that power alone and not to the Executive. It is clear that this position raised a huge alarm among judicial associations, professional collectives, political parties and of all kinds. That is what prompted the first major correction, the first major disapproval of the minister, which takes place on Sunday afternoon in a press release published by La Moncloa. We are therefore faced with the first delegitimization of the Minister and her actions, in this case carried out by the President of the Government himself. But delegitimizations have continued with requests for pardon from members of the Government who have shown themselves likely to pardon crimes of great gravity, and who have not even been prosecuted. It has thus been expressed by the delegate of the Government, by the Vice-President, by the Minister of Development, and even by the Minister Batet, of Territorial Administrations, and she is part of that Government, a Government that strives as we see in delegitimizing the task of the judiciary. But it is also that the minister has lied on several occasions, the first of them when in twenty-four hours she rectified and fixed three different positions in relation to his relationship or his friendships with Mr. Villarejo, saying three things: that he did not know him, then that he had only had professional relations and then announcing up to three meetings, of which we still do not know its content. But it is also that this bag of dangerous friendships that the minister carries - of which we know she is now carrying through the leaks - instills an enormous weakness, and we are seeing it daily with those leaks. We are not going to enter into what those words are, these manifestations, but we do find that the enormous vulnerability of the minister makes her the object of those blackmails, as these leaks denote. Filtrations that also denote an enormous laxity, by the way, in the fight against the most serious crimes that are revealed in these talks, more or less friendly. I don't know if she was carried away from such friendships or relationships she was very lax in her persecution, when it was precisely her duty as a prosecutor to pursue them. On May 16, 2017, in this very House, the socialist spokesman said that afternoon: Rajoy has a minister under suspicion, touched and sunk democratically, and that is why he has an obligation to resign. These were the demonstrations before the first time a reprobation of a minister of justice was discussed by the socialist spokesman. Well, these demonstrations are now absolutely interchangeable with regard to Minister Delgado, the Minister of Justice. She is an absolutely suspicious minister; she is a minister who induces a huge weakness to the State, because we do not know the extent of these dangerous friendships, and therefore the best service she can do to that State, which she has served for more than thirty years, is precisely to resign. It was shown in the debate of the proud interpellation that he would not yield to blackmail. Well, we don't need a minister who doesn't give in to blackmail; we need a minister who can't be blackmailed, which is something different. We need a minister who has a clear need to defend the judiciary is also her mission as a member of that state; we need a minister who does not live from permanent rectification and we need a minister who has not shown such indulgence with her friends, with those dangerous friendships that live in the sewers of the state that pursue and condition her. That is why we believe that its continuity at the head of the Ministry of Justice weakens the State, and the best service it could do to that State at this time is precisely to resign. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizo Serrano has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. During this parliamentary term, things of particular importance have passed in political terms. [[Rumors]] We have experienced an important struggle between the different powers of the state...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u177	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u178	Over the last few years there has been a notable legislative paralysis by the intrusion of the Executive Power into this House; we have seen how associations of judges and prosecutors denounced interference of the Executive Power in the Judiciary; we have seen how a General Council of the Judiciary, through a nefarious reform with regard to its functioning, has implied absolute discretion in the promotion and appointment of judges to positions of special relevance, and we have seen how four Euroorders against Catalan politicians have been denied by countries in our environment because they do not have the characteristics necessary for criminalization. But it has not been less scandalous, and of course no less heartbreaking, for the democratic health of this country, that a committee of inquiry has issued a report, which has subsequently been endorsed by the majority of this House, pointing out the existence of a political police force, among other negotiated ones, which drew up false dossiers against political opponents. Pablo Iglesias was and remains one of the priority objectives of this police mafia embedded in the structures of the state, which has built false reports and which, thanks to hit men like Eduardo Inda, have managed to reproduce systematically lies by television sets. [[Applauds]] Lies and falsehoods that many political opponents outside and within this House have used for profit and conscious of their falsehood against Paul Iglesias. Because all of us here, and also all of the media that have reproduced them, know with absolute certainty that both the PISA Report and the false collection in Granadas that is attributed to Pablo Iglesias are criminal constructions of the police mafia, with the signature of Commissioner Villarejo himself and Eugenio Pino, protected by the police dome and used with the same criminal spirit by Eduardo Inda. [[Applauds]] They have been used by one and the other, they have consented to look elsewhere without many groups in this House having denounced the very serious attack on the building of false accusations to attack a political adversary. For four years, while the courts were filing complaints from Clean Hands and other Mafia agents, here and on TV sets the lies of the sewers continued to be reproduced. Together with Esquerra Republicana and PDeCAT we request the appearance of former Commissioner Villarejo in this Commission of Inquiry, as one of the operators and responsible from the transition until now of the darkest stages of the political brigade outside the law. We wanted former Minister Rubalcaba to appear, who appointed him Commissioner and even awarded him a medal in 2009. It's not true that Mr. Villarejo's performances are a surprise to the PP and PSOE politicians, is it? [[Applauds]] The truth is that over the past few decades it has not only been consented to and looked elsewhere, but has been an instrument of the political and economic powers of this country to perpetuate political control over certain areas that gave continuity to some of the darkest stages of the past. If this situation is public, if this Congress declared the existence of political police as certain it was because for several years before, during the investigations of the small case Nicolás, his judicial commission or journalists like Patricia López, former Commissioner Jaime Barrado and many other honest officials, anonymously and decidedly heroic and alone, assumed their responsibility in defense of democratic legality, and managed, with much effort and in too many cases with personal and professional sacrifice, to unravel a rotten entanglement, a necessary step for Mr Villarejo to be in prison today. [[Applauds]] And that things continue to work with the same scheme, despite everything, it's obvious. We have recently seen how an honest inspector, Rubén López, one of the members of that judicial commission, was removed from the investigation and sent to the Moratalaz jails in a shameful way, while prosecutor Alfonso San Román, who for years denied dozens of investigations against the police mafia, has just been awarded a destination at the National High Court. We also want to ask the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Interior about this. Why is the concealment of the sewers rewarded? Why is Pilar Martínez Gamo, the investigating judge of the little Nicolás case, awarded a medal for further mockery, whose only merit in the investigation was nothing more and nothing less than the dissolution of the judicial commission? [[Applauds]] Is that the message this system wants to send to honest officials? We must remember the sentences of Commissioner Jaime Barrado when he says that the system is so corrupt that it expels the decent. The leaks of former Commissioner Villarejo concerning the Minister of Justice, former Judge Baltasar Garzón or Juan Carlos de Borbón or Pablo Casado are equally serious. They represent the first step in asking for explanations, and in their case the assumption of political responsibilities for those who have them, but of course it is an obligation for all of them to be investigated judicially. By the way, does the Government intend to withdraw Mr. Villarejo's multiple medals? Gentlemen of the PSOE, blackmail is the other side of corruption. You can't look the other way, we won't look the other way and neither should you. Debts, recordings and blackmails to influence democracy were ended by buying or fearing the will of representatives of State institutions. Let's bring it all to light. It is no longer Pablo Iglesias or the independenceist parties, it is democracy that is at stake. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Campo Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard, we are debating a motion following an urgent inquiry by the People's Party, with content and times that will allow me to call it shocking; time and contents, content and times. What are we talking about? Mrs Moro explained this very well; the motion calls for the cessation of the Minister of Justice, and in the event that she does not resign, that she ceases, or the other way around, I don't care because the order doesn't affect. Why do I say it's shocking? Because this House does not really have the power to bring about the cessation, which is a personal prerogative of the President of the Government, and even resignation does not cease to be a very personal act. So it's shocking, but it's shocking in times as well. Why? Because they have not even had the parliamentary rigour to wait for the Commission tomorrow, where it will have the opportunity to explain itself to all the questions that could be asked. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should make an effort to return to parliamentary rigour; that is not the way. I am convinced that this morning, when many anonymous citizens read the press, they thought: What will the Minister of Justice have done to ask for his resignation or if he does not cease, and they do so without giving him the opportunity to defend themselves? Is the Holy Inquisition back? I think we should explain to this citizen that this Parliament does not want to hear a few things. Things have to be reduced to schemes in order to learn them, because only what is learned can be explained. I would tell you that there are two blocks of facts which are those that have angered the People's Party, which has been seconded by a part of the House. It's two facts. First of all, what is known as the Llarena case. We all know this case well. She has had the opportunity to deploy, I think very rightly, all the reasons that led to the government's decision, which is very simple and I will devote half a second to it. An instrumental lawsuit brought by five fugitives of the justice system causes Judge Llarena to be sued, he transmits it to the Council, the General Council of the Judiciary urges the Government, and the Government, after an information process, where there are parrots who know very well, such as translation problems, who save them because we all know them all, decides and the Ministry of Justice takes a note on 23 August where it says that the State will characterise itself. There is indeed a collection that leaves certain doubts, because at that time there was not a good knowledge of the subject, and two days later, since the Presidency of the Government is clearly acting, and it is said: the entire machinery of the State will be put in defense of jurisdictional sovereignty and a law firm is being hired to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, get on with it, the minister acted, the government acted, and they did it when they had to, which is when they had all the elements of knowledge. From there, whatever you want, but there's one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we expected your behavior as a state party, and in this you haven't shown it. I want you to remember the story that is there, because when you have needed it, and not when the PSOE has been in the government, but when it has been in the opposition, it has always been on state issues. That goes in his due. [[Applauds]] But he said there was a second block that would explain to this anonymous citizen. Yes, there's a big stir with a listener apparently obtained by a person who's being investigated for very serious and highly hairy crimes; you hear that it seems that they have been made by this person in a private conversation in a restaurant and without knowledge of the diners already nine years ago, when none of those who were there had government responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we could talk about the press and the press, we could talk about Portadas.com, but no, I leave you the reflection and I would tell this citizen what I left us in his day Kapuscinski: when you see that information is a business, the truth loses importance. And I would add to Kapuscinski that for everyone it has not lost importance. I'm going to focus on the facts. Foucault told us that power is what has to be explained. The modern constitutions have taken it, and our article 108 clearly states that the Government responds in solidarity for its political management before the Congress of Deputies or also as reflected in the explanatory statement of the Transparency Act 19/2013. Here is one thing very clear, and it is that we should talk in a forum in a long, extended and calm way about what we want, because we have to define those lines, those thin red lines that allow us to differentiate between the public and the private, the professional life of the professional life, the difference between the legal, the illegal and the ethical, and above all the respect, also in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[protests]] Look, if you want to end political life, it's very easy, and with a slogan they have summarized, ending the political opponent is very easy: Put a Villarejo in your life. But that is not the path we want for our society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u181	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u182	We move on to the agenda item on the request for an extension of the work of the Committee of Inquiry on the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. That request shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u183	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the last item on the agenda, which corresponds to the request of the Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Esquerra Republicana for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning the alleged irregularities committed by the Institute of Public Law since its creation, in December 2001, by agreement of the managing commission of the University of Rey Juan Carlos, on 12 December of that year. In defence of the request made by its groups, Mrs Belarra Urteaga intervenes, first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u184	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. On March 21st, a journalistic investigation by eldiario.es revealed that Cristina Cifuentes, then president of the Community of Madrid, had obtained a master's degree from the Rey Juan Carlos University in Autonomic Law with forged notes; she had two outstanding subjects that went from not presented to remarkable two years after the date on which Mrs Cifuentes had in principle completed the course. [[The lady]] And that very night Mrs. Cifuentes said that she did not intend to resign and that those accusations were false. The next day he posted a video on Twitter with his already famous 'I'm not leaving, I'm staying' and provided a record of defending the final master's degree work with three teachers' signatures, two of which turned out to be false, according to another investigation by El Confidencial. In case it wasn't enough, shortly afterwards we knew that the record had been produced just a few hours after the controversy jumped into the press. And the lies of Mrs Cifuentes were so gross that she tried to swallow us that she had defended her final master's work in ten or fifteen minutes, the day that the European Cup was held in Madrid, when she was a government delegate. He tried to get us to swallow that. Like he tried to get us to swallow that he wasn't presenting his job because he had lost it in a move. No one on the street believed Mrs. Cifuentes, just as no one believed Mrs. Monton when she said that she didn't remember where her master's classes were given because she was taking a taxi or a relative, just as no one believed Mr. Married when she said that she had been validated by law for master's credits, and that she had done her final master's work, but she didn't want to teach it because she had already given enough explanations. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And do you know why no one believed them? No one believed them, ladies and gentlemen, because there are thousands of decent students out there who know perfectly well how hard it is to get a master's degree. Students with families who have had to choose between paying their children a master's degree or going on vacation. Students who enrolled on the Intranet of their university, who presented all the paperwork, and who will never forget the dozens of hours they invested in a final master's work to have their introduction, methodology, data analysis and conclusions. Students who have on their computers dozens of emails exchanged with their tutors, and also dozens of versions of their TFM, with TFM final, TFM final, TFM final now yes final, TFM latest version. Students who on the day of their defense will never be forgotten, because they invited their friends and parents and their mothers to show them pride in the work they had done. And from here I tell you that of course you have to be proud, you have to be very proud of the effort you made. They are the same students to whom the leaders of the People's Party and the Socialist Party sold the Bologna Plan, told them that they had to work harder, and told them that if they wanted to work, they had to get a master's degree. They told them, "Look at the hill they were throwing at him!" that if they didn't find a job it was his fault, and they forced them to choose between paying 1000 euros with two masters or emigration. It was these leaders who also commercialized the public university, because making it free democratizes, and if the children of the working people are democratized they can get where they want; and that's what they didn't want. The cases of Mrs Cifuentes, Mrs Montón and Mr Casado, VIP students from the University of Rey Juan Carlos, are intolerable and intolerable because they question the good name of the Spanish public university and the effort of thousands of decent students. They are intolerable because they were given master's degrees to embellish their résumés as a prebend because they were who they were, and that United We may not consent. That is why we propose today this commission of inquiry on the Institute of Public Law of the University of Rey Juan Carlos, because everything points out that we are faced with a plot of corruption in which Mr Álvarez Conde gave titles to politicians as a prebenda. The cases of Cifuentes, Montón and Casado are not isolated cases; they are a plot and, therefore, so that the good name of the public university is not drunk by the shame of a few, it is our responsibility to investigate and to address political responsibilities. We want the corrupt to be taken away from the desire to ride chiringuitos in public college with everyone's money. [[Applauds]] But we also need this committee because, if not, Mr. Married, protected by a justice that is tailored to him, is going to go out of his way. Mr. Married has a false master's degree, and if it wasn't because he's out there, he'd be charged in a normal court of law, as were his three fellow masters. But Mr. Married hides behind his hanging to escape justice, or is it that someone thought in this country that four judges of the Supreme Court appointed by the People's Party were going to impute him? Of course not, and we're not the only ones indignant. The judge who imputed her companions - which literally says in her writing: the usual demands of jurisprudence to open a criminal investigation and summon anyone to testify as an investigator are being raised notably - is also quite outraged. So I think we need this committee of inquiry urgently to answer a question that is being asked by all the Spaniards - it is a pity that Mr Casado is not here today to answer it - when are you going to resign, Mr Casado, for obtaining a false master's degree? [[Applauds]] Another question I ask Mr. Married is whether he is not ashamed to continue to occupy the seat knowing that there are thousands of students out there who are trying to get what you were given. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Belarra. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u186	Deputies, deputies, last-minute resistance, investigating facts that question the good name not only of this university, Juan Carlos I, but of the entire university system, is an obligation of this Congress. That's why when the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea asked us to sign, without doubt we signed. [[Rumors]] It is not our proposal, but it has been good to have a debate, to have a debate in this House. There are many students, many, who make huge sacrifices, they and their parents, to go to college. Having a title is not something you have in a resume; it is something that makes it easy for you to find work, do what you want to do, become a scientist, and this cannot be frivolized. It's very serious what happened in the Juan Carlos I. [[A Member: It is very serious what is happening in Catalonia]] We defend the two dishes of balance at university: university autonomy and accountability to society. These dishes must be perfectly balanced. In a world in which the dominant political or economic forces impose an increasingly perceptible short-termism in everything, in this Congress it often makes special sense that there are institutions such as universities in which a thing as important as knowledge and human capital is made. There must be university autonomy to investigate, to teach, to learn. All this, however, must be countered by an accountability to society that perhaps has not always been done and that we must assume all, university and society, as an obligation, not only of those who manage public resources, but of all the institutions that receive the trust of society for something as special as creating and transmitting knowledge. This is our university and with its prestige you can't play. The university and the knowledge are above the political weaves. That's why when the president of the CRUE said they can't investigate if the university doesn't ask, it's good for this Congress to say what is to be done. I disagree with the method, and I think that the appropriate space is the autonomous community, but that this is spoken of, that the channel is also found and autonomy as a great element of prestige and necessity must lead to accountability. We can do better, yes, not doing what has been done in Juan Carlos I in this falsely law institute. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz Serra. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u188	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. Firstly, we are going to vote in favour of the creation of this commission as we believe it cannot be otherwise, because we understand that it is the Legislature - it is the whole world, but especially the Legislature - that preserves and preserves the prestige of the public universities in this country. Firstly, because we believe that public universities not only take care of themselves by providing them with more budgets, by taking care of and improving the working conditions of their workers, but also by taking care of and protecting themselves, as I said, by keeping their prestige. And, secondly, out of respect for the students, those who already have degrees, who are doctors, who have masters and who are affected by their degree, their efforts and their efforts in that career, in that master's degree and in that doctorate because of a very clear bad practice of those who believe above good and evil. Thirdly, and I think it is even more important, for those who are now deciding what to do with their lives, who have to decide whether to start a university degree, whether to enroll in a master's degree or start a doctorate and who can certainly see with enormous shame how the public university of their country is used for political games that do not play. We will therefore vote in favour of this committee for responsibility and for commitment to the public university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Mr Esteban Bravo asks for the floor]] Excuse me, Mrs Martín Llaguno, it is not noted at any time that the Parliamentary Group, PNV, had asked for the floor, but there is no problem. If Mrs Martín Llaguno doesn't care, we give her the floor...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u190	I don't care.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u191	Or later.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u192	Or after when I'm done, perfect. But I want to tell you that it was not noted that you were going to intervene. Go ahead, Mrs. Martin Llaguno.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u193	Thank you, President. Thanks to the PNV for letting me talk first. I'm a university teacher and I've been at the Spanish public university for 20 years. I have been through all the stages, from school assistant to principal and professor, and it is clear that what has happened in college hurts me, outrages me and seems intolerable to me. It is clear that the case of the Institute of Public Law of the Rey Juan Carlos University is a hyperbole of the degradation and political phagocitation of the university - case Married, case Montón, case Cifuentes - but that it is hyperbolic does not mean that it is unprecedented, that it is unusual or that it is the only one; it only means that it is public. Beyond the media dimension of the Institute of Public Law, what has happened is the symptom of the illness that the university has, because something has failed. We can do two things: we can profile ourselves or we can recognize that something needs to be done. The university's problems are known to everyone and are recognized from doors inside. Is there not a parasitization of the universities - in addition to this, of those of many autonomous communities - because the universities depend on the governments themselves? Is there not a proliferation throughout the Spanish university of master's degrees that have become the funding channel for many centers? Is there not a lack of efficiency in funding - although it is true that there is little - when only some universities work through the transfer of tuition? [[Rumors]] Has there not been and is there no fault in agencies such as Aneca or in the autonomous acceptance agencies that have allowed these degrees and institutes to go ahead? [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u195	But, above all, is there not a flagrant problem of endogamy and blindness when we do not want to recognize from the university itself that there are things that are failing? Lords of Podemos and Lords of Republican Left, some of those in their ranks are also university professors. We are going to support the opening of this committee of inquiry, but I am going to ask you one thing, because we have put forward a proposal for an emergency law not to make the great reform of the university system, but to restore dignity to the university by putting things of common sense, such as that the work leading to titles is public, that there is control or supervision of the accounts or that there is no political parasitization of the universities. And you know what happened? That the People's Party and the Socialist Party have become shell, have become pineapple and have told us no. We've been vetoed the bill. [[Applauds]] We are going to support this committee of inquiry, but if the Lords of Podemos are as vehemently as Mrs Ione Belarre has been or the Lords of Esquerra Republicana have minimal respect and affection for the Spanish university, as we are going to support this committee of inquiry, I ask you to help us unlock our proposal of law, because it is urgent, because it is necessary and because we do not want this committee of inquiry to become a smokescreen in order not to deal with the real problems that stalk not one, but many universities. Last week it came out, for example, that the Complutense University of Madrid has been condemned for the manipulation of a plaza court. It's one, it's another, and more cases are coming out. I ask you, please, to help us unlock our proposal for a law and to be intransigent with the People's Party and the Socialist Party, that what you do not want is for you to be made more ashamed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Aguirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u197	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry for the mistake there's been. In any case, I will intervene very briefly and from the seat. My group will abstain in the vote on the establishment of this committee of inquiry. Investigate? Does anyone have any doubt that there was a black bottomless well there? I think it's clear to everyone. The results of the investigations, as well as the very commissions of inquiry of this House, we all know how they work and how they end up: newspaper headlines of a day and a little more; let alone overbooking of commissions that we have. But beyond the skepticism and mistrust that experience has generated us about the commissions of inquiry of this House, above all, it is because it is not the scope. As much as we consider the irregularities committed to be supine and as much as we consider that there have been innumerable issues, there is one thing called the sphere; and university autonomy is something that we consider very important. If anyone has to investigate, first of all it is the university authorities themselves, which are responsible for doing so, and if that is not enough, the competent, autonomous, public authorities, for which the Community of Madrid must be responsible in this case; I do not know whether the Madrid Assembly or the Education Council and, where appropriate, the Ministry of Education, obviously beyond the courts, whether there is any criminal responsibility, although in some cases we differ considerably from the actions that some have had in this area. My group will therefore abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As might be expected, this debate has become a launch of accusations against politicians who are either victims or have benefited from the irregularities of the Institute of Public Law. But Mrs Martín, do not tell us about vetoes on a bill when you are constantly and systematically vetoing parliamentary initiatives at the Congressional Bureau with the People's Group. [[Applauds]] And Mrs Martín, we could also go into a parallel debate about why some politicians are dedicated to bulging their curriculum. Lords of Citizens, let me know the first one who has increased his curriculum is Mr Rivera, with a master's degree that in the end was not an official master's degree, with a PhD that was not, and that of course was denied by the University of Barcelona itself. So I remind you that before you talk and give lessons also look what you have inside your ranks. In addition, I remind you of part of your electoral programme, in which, by the way, those who had falsified the curriculum were going to be removed from public activity, and that I know Mr Rivera is still a Member of this House. [[Applauds]] However, let us focus on the historical account of the scandals associated with Mr Álvarez Conde and the functioning of the institute, an institute that since its inception, with González-Trevijano as rector and Esperanza Aguirre as president of the Community of Madrid, has been dominated by irregularities such as the opacity in the process of obtaining the master's degrees, issuing ghost titles, five hundred irregular titles of law to Italian citizens with massive validations, altering qualifications, deleting information, etc., and another series of issues that have already been mentioned in previous interventions, reasons, all of them, for the initiation of a serious and rigorous investigation. And in this they have already taken letters from justice and the same Juan Carlos University, which has closed the institute at the time and has now announced an appeal for the file of the Master case. However, what we are talking about today is creating a committee of inquiry in Congress, and we understand that the motive or reason can be twofold. Firstly, because it affects the irregularities of national politicians, such as Mr Casado and, secondly, because it is necessary to clarify what has happened in order to avoid it in the future, to move calmly students, teachers and society in general and to ensure that this does not happen again. For this reason and because we believe and exercise transparency, we will support this initiative, and because we are also consistent with these principles of transparency and responsibility, dignity and decency, such as former Minister Carmen Montón, who assumed political responsibilities and resigned. Follow your example, Mr. Married, which I see is not there. And it is that his case, that of the minister, is not the same as that of Mr Casado, because she did submit evidence at all times; she presented the emails, presented a final master's work and, in general, presented the proofs that were required of him. But we must also add that although we support the approval of this committee of inquiry which is to be carried out, it mainly affects the Community of Madrid itself, which is responsible for university policy. That is to say, it is going to repeat what is basically going to have to be investigated in the Madrid Assembly itself, which, by the way, has also called for the creation of a committee of inquiry. And everything points to the Community of Madrid and to the times when he was already Rector González-Trevijano, who inexplicably authorized that the institute directly manage its revenues and expenses without prior control and with a CIF of its own without any control even by the Chamber of Auditors, and hence the rest of the scandals. This does not happen in any Spanish university and is contrary to law. Ladies and gentlemen, this plot affects Madrid's Education Advisor, Rafael van Grieken. The master's degree in question was approved, evaluated and allegedly controlled by the Governing Council of which van Grieken was a member, who was then director of the Aneca when the title was evaluated and was also president of the Madrid Madri+d agency's Board of Directors when it renewed the accreditation of the title. We cannot understand how the Community of Madrid, with full responsibility, has been able to ignore or obviate all these irregularities. Nor do we believe that we can make free bar to prejudge anyone or to make public mockery, because where is the authoritas to give opinions, to evaluate and to decide on the quality of the final master's work or on a doctoral thesis?, is it that, perhaps, there are no experts, doctors, court members who can properly test or evaluate any matter? We are concerned that, on too many occasions, the stone is thrown and the hand is hidden. Of all this debate, there remains a very worrying reality, the irreparable damage to social trust that must exist in our knowledge institutions, in their evaluation and transparency procedures, which exist and function. The exception to what has happened at the Institute of Public Law cannot be a reason to generalize a shadow of suspicion about Spanish universities, but not at the Rey Juan Carlos University, where their titles should not be questioned as, unfortunately, is currently happening. So, ladies and gentlemen, this group is going to vote in favour of the creation of this Commission, in favour of transparency, knowledge of reality and, above all, because we want a university free of suspicion and with confidence. Finally, I would like to recommend to Mr Casado that he not speak again about the culture of effort, talent and capacity when he exercises the culture of privileges and the treatment of favor. Its record lacks public reputation and moral authority to talk about the problems of the education system, something that can irritate much more than nine million students who, day by day, strive and belong to the education system. I advise you, Mr Casado, to leave the education system out of your speech and focus on what needs to be focused on, on your resignation. Nothing more. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Seijo. Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I was coming to talk about the concept of public interest, perhaps because I recently had the opportunity to read a doctoral thesis. Don't worry, it's a doctoral thesis that talks about the concept of public interest and says interesting things, because, unlike other doctoral theses, it's not a pint, short and colorful, it's a doctoral thesis that has required the effort, the work and the talent of a gentleman who today has, dignifiedly, the title of doctor. [[Applauds]] What is happening is that I see here that the constitutional concepts, the principles, however abstract they may be, are not interested, however little they may be, and, of course, the least interesting of all is that of university autonomy, which not only is not respected, but is directly attacked, manipulated, trampled, subdued and twisted for its own interests, and that by invoking the principle of the public interest. Another lie, another fraud, another plagiarism again invokes a concept of public interest to serve the spurious and particular interests of the proponents of this commission of inquiry and of those who act as palm trees. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] The question raised by Mrs Belarus today draws my attention, because I did not know that she had faith and that she believed in so many things, and less sat very close to her colleagues like Mr Errejón, who thought it perfectly lawful to charge almost 2,000 euros per month for a research contract at a Spanish public university, that is to say, of all the Spaniards, without working to earn it. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] And, besides, all that promoted, promoted, participated, by another partner of his of Podemos, because that's what friends are for, isn't it, gentlemen of Podemos? Right, Mrs. Belarus? Corruption interests you if you're not on the bench behind you. These are matters that have to do with faith, from what one sees, with what one believes or ceases to believe. Those other plots that involve exploiting public resources for the particular, very personal, benefit of party partners, that has nothing to do with it. And I, the truth is, when I thought you were talking about chiringuitos in public college with everyone's money, you were referring precisely to this, because if not, what are we talking about when we talk about the Errejón case? Furthermore, we can save the Commission because, as you said in this rostrum a moment ago, the conclusions are already made. Look, at least there is someone who makes conclusions; there are others who don't even pick them up in doctoral theses. [[Applauds]] Other colleagues from other parliamentary groups propose, accept or participate in the creation of this committee of inquiry. I imagine that they would resist investigating other very worthy universities, for example, the University of Barcelona, which has now detected a mistake in approving the title of doctor of a well-known Catalan politician, belonging precisely to the same political formation that is going to give his positive vote, and the necessary steps will be taken to remove that Catalan politician from his thesis. Well, let's look into that, too, if you think so, and we can look into it here in Madrid, right? Since we are going to investigate the Community of Madrid will serve us for the rest of the autonomous communities. Mrs Martín Llaguno also points to the car of the committee of inquiry and has her reasons. Well, I have to tell you one thing; I've been a university teacher longer than you; it's not merit, it's a matter of age, I'm older, of course, it's what happens. But I'm not part of your diagnosis. My diagnosis is that since I was thirty-two years old at the Spanish public university, I have only seen capable people, people who work hard, who work daily and who have a magnificent activity and performance to have the level of the Spanish university as one of the highest in the world. [[Applauds]] That is the work of the teachers and the students, that is the one I want to defend, and not only the good name of the Spanish university, but also that of the University King Juan Carlos, yes, King Juan Carlos - I to the king do not tutor him -, and the university that has among its staff of 1500 magnificent teachers specialists who place it among the ten best Spanish universities in terms of internationalization. Finally, I would like to refer to what everyone is waiting for me to say, yes, ma'am. I agree that for many cases that we may have, they do not cease to be specific cases of inappropriate conduct at the Spanish university. But the truth and truth is that if we talk about the public interest, on the same day that the president of the plagiarism government refuses to go to the Senate to explain, I don't know how to qualify the fact that you come here to ask for a commission of inquiry for infinitely less serious facts that affect a plurality of people, some of whom have been absolutely exculpated by our courts of justice and, in addition... [[shows several ABC covers]] [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress speak Korean words that are not perceived.-Protests.-Applause.]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u202	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u203	...we're talking about people who have only done what they were asked to do, or at least that's what Mrs. Monton says. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u204	Thank you very much. The votes will begin in two minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, the votes begin. We shall vote, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Murcia Regional Assembly on the generation of renewable electricity for self-consumption. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 339 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 343; 332 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 336; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u206	It is therefore taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u207	We proceed to vote for the adoption of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Climate Change and Energy Transition. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 4 telematics votes, 344; 138; 172 plus 4 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u208	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u209	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. First, the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the enactment of a family support law. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 259 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u210	It's approved. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the fight against child poverty. [[File number 162/000757]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u211	We are now voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on combating child poverty. We vote in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 201 abstentions, 139.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u212	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u213	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the steps the Government intends to take to depoliticize the public administration and to ensure the professionalism and impartiality of appointments in the public sector. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 31 against, 172 abstentions, 136.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u214	It's rejected. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can in common guarantee the right to a safe, free and free abortion for all women. [[File number 173/000108]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u215	We now vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning guaranteeing the right to safe, free and free abortion for all women. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 163 against, 137 abstentions, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u216	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to the object of knowing when the Minister of Justice is to resign and, in the event of failure to do so, to agree on its own motion. [[File number 173/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u217	We now vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress in order to know when the Minister of Justice will resign and, in the event that she fails to do so, to immediately agree to her termination. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 166 against, 91 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u218	Approved. [[Applauds.-Some ladies and gentlemen: Resignation, Resignation]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u219	The request for an extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the Commission of Inquiry concerning the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party is now being submitted to the plenary. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u220	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the request of the Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Esquerra Republicana to set up a commission of inquiry into the alleged irregularities committed by the Institute of Public Law since its creation in December 2001 by agreement of the Management Commission of the University of Rey Juan Carlos on December 12 of that year. [[rumors]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 198 against, 133 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-10-09-CD181009.u221	The establishment of such a committee was approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was nine and forty minutes of the night.
