ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 11/2018 of 31 August 2018 on the transposition of directives on the protection of pension commitments to workers, the prevention of money laundering and requirements for the entry and residence of third-country nationals, and amending Law 39/2015 of 31 October 2015 on the Common Administrative Procedure for Public Administrations. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Economy and Enterprise has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I appear before the plenary of Congress to defend the validation of the Royal Decree-Law transposing directives on the protection of pension commitments to workers, the prevention of money laundering and requirements for the entry and residence of third-country nationals, and amending also Law 39/2015 of 1 October on the Common Administrative Procedure for Public Administrations. This is, as you all know, the actual omnibus decree-law which the Council of Ministers adopted on 31 August with the aim of transposing different Community directives into our legislation. These are rules of great relevance, as they relate to such important areas as workers' rights in relation to their supplementary pension schemes, the prevention of money laundering or the mobility of researchers between Member States. It is therefore very important to clarify as soon as possible the legal situation of the subjects affected by these rules, as the lack of transposition is creating uncertainty and insecurity for many citizens and businesses. But it is also urgent that we carry out the transposition of directives which are already late with regard to the maximum permitted date, which has prompted the European Commission to initiate formal infringement procedures with regard to the directives which are included in this royal decree-law. You all know how Community infringement procedures work in these cases and I think we are all aware that postponing our European obligations can end up imposing huge sanctions on our country. It has happened in the past and could happen again now, not only because of the directives which are currently under discussion, but also because of another 15 directives for which Spain has already opened infringement procedures; pending directives which accumulate delays of up to two or three years. In some of these situations we have encountered that the previous Government had taken virtually no steps to proceed with the transposition and, as I have indicated since my first appearance here in Congress, it is a priority for us to transpose these pending directives. Look, I'm going to teach you very briefly the road map that we use in the ministry to control the status of the different directives. [[Show a document]] This is the situation I encountered when I arrived at the ministry, with a large number of directives that were pending even to start the transposition procedures and some - in orange - that were already in parliamentary procedure. Fortunately, in just three months we are in a situation in which the vast majority are already in parliamentary procedure and decisive steps have been taken in the government's part, but I would like to urge all of you here together to ensure that by the end of the year a large part of them are already in green because their transposition has been completed. The truth is that we have a lot of work to do and that delays in transposition end up being paid by the citizens. Therefore, this is a debate that can sound technical, but which is extremely important, and I am very pleased that I was finally able to come here today to present these real decree-laws. The urgency of the procedure is explained by the question of the transposition that I have just outlined. Turning to the content of the Royal Decree-Law, first of all I would like to refer to the part of this text which deals with the transposition of the directive on minimum requirements to strengthen the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. The ultimate aim of this directive is to reduce obstacles to the mobility of workers between Member States. At present, requirements such as old age or age create barriers for a worker to change jobs, since doing so before retirement can mean that he loses his rights, that he is not recognised as having acquired supplementary pension rights, and that can discourage many citizens from deciding to change businesses to start an activity in another Member State. For this purpose, the directive operates on three fronts: firstly, it establishes conditions for the acquisition of more favourable economic rights for workers in relation to the supplementary pension schemes which the companies voluntarily have established; secondly, it favours the consolidation of these economic rights and their maintenance by the worker in the event of the termination of the employment relationship before retirement; and thirdly, it regulates the right of workers to information in this very important area. To implement these improvements in our legal system, the Royal Decree-Law amends the first additional provision of the consolidated text of the Law on the Regulation of Pension Plans and Funds, adopted in 2002. This provision obliges companies to implement, through collective insurance and pension schemes, pension commitments that they make with their workers in relation to contingencies such as retirement; however, they are left with complete discretion in setting the requirements to be able to maintain rights in the event that the worker leaves the company before retiring, that is, the protection of workers is ultimately left to the bilateral agreement between the companies and the worker concerned. With the transposition of the directive, new limits and requirements are introduced in relation to these collective insurance undertakings. In particular, the minimum length of time to consolidate the company's rights is limited to a maximum of three years, the minimum age which may be required for access to the relevant rights is fixed at twenty-one years and the reimbursement of premiums or contributions made in the event of termination of the employment relationship is regulated before the rights are acquired. In particular, in the event of termination of the employment relationship, the premiums or contributions made by the undertaking and the worker may be reimbursed, the rights acquired when such termination takes place are maintained and, finally, a training scheme is imposed at least annually on the worker in respect of all these rights. In other words, it is about protecting workers so that they do not lose the savings that have accumulated in the pension system. Of course, through this processing we also protect the rights acquired in the existing supplementary forecasting systems. If they have more favourable conditions, they must be maintained. All workers will be able to benefit from these strengthened rights and we have made use of the possibility of the directive so that, precisely, these strengthened rights cover the movements of workers also within our country. As a last comment, it should be pointed out that changes will in practice only affect collective insurance whose premiums are not taxed to workers, since in those insurances in which workers are taxed as part of the wage, all these safeguards were already provided for. In short, it is a good regulation project to protect workers' rights and promote their labour mobility, with a positive impact on competition as well. Secondly, the text of the omnibus transposes the fourth directive, on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and also an article of the directive on access to the activity of credit institutions and prudential supervision - known as the CRD4 - on the sanctioning regime applicable to infringements of the rules on the prevention of money laundering. Please note that we are transposing the fourth directive here and in the meantime a fifth directive on the prevention of money laundering has already been adopted. This directive which we are transposing today sets out harmonised measures at Community level to prevent the free movement of capital and the free provision of financial services from facilitating the conduct of criminal activities related to money laundering or the financing of terrorism, an absolute priority for this Government and I am sure that for all the political groups in the House. To this end, obliged persons, including financial institutions, are required to exercise strict control. Much of these requirements have already been incorporated into our legislation through the Money Laundering Prevention Act 2010, which incorporated forty recommendations from the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, in February 2012. But there were still a few principles to be transposed which I very briefly refer to. First, all persons with public responsibility, both domestic and foreign, are declared at high risk and therefore enhanced due diligence will be exercised in all cases. Until now, it was differentiated between the citizens of our country and the foreigners, and from this transposition everyone will have the same treatment. In the national case, it does not imply a change in the list of persons with public responsibility, but a change in the degree of the type of measures to be applied to them. In order to stimulate complaints, a whistleblowing or secret denunciation procedure is established, a register will be created in the trade register with all persons or entities providing certain services to companies and trusts, the cash payment threshold from which traders are obliged to comply with their obligations to prevent money laundering is reduced from EUR 15000 to EUR 10000 and, finally, enhanced due diligence measures will be required in respect of the business relationships that financial institutions maintain with individuals or entities related to countries that the European Commission has included in its blacklist because it considers that they have strategic deficiencies in their systems of preventing and combating money laundering. As regards sanctions, the Royal Decree-Law complies with the transposition of Article 67(1)(o) of the CRD4 Directive, together with the provisions of the Fourth Laundering Directive, by increasing the maximum penalties to be applied, which in some cases may amount to 10% of the total turnover of the consolidated group. There are also adjustments in the area of advertising, including the publication of the most serious cases and the possibility of anonymous publication in the rest of the cases. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u3	Silence, please, silence. There is such a murmuring that it is difficult to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u4	Thank you very much, President, because I'm screaming. Thank you very much. The deadline for transposition of the fourth laundering directive expired on 26 June 2017 and the infringement procedure is currently at the reasoned stage of the opinion, which is the first step before the formalisation of the European Union's claim to justice. Even more serious is the case of CRD4, which had to be transposed by 31 December 2013. However, the bulk of the directive remains pending the processing of a bill in this House. I do not want to insist again on the subject mentioned at the beginning of my speech, but, as you all know, the European Commission has a new approach on the subject of transpositions of directives and will no longer give up the application, even in the event of transposition, that is to say, we will certainly be fined if we are finally brought before the Court of Justice. For that reason, it is urgent to transpose these directives, but also from the perspective of substance, because we are talking about very serious issues, such as the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The fourth directive to be transposed, which comes from a very different area - hence the actual decree-law omnibus - concerns the requirements for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, practices, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and au pair placement. This is therefore a measure which affects very directly also the rights of individuals. The aim of the directive, which should be transposed since last May, is to improve the position of the European Union and therefore of Spain in the global competition to attract talent and promote its position as a world centre of excellence for studies and training. To this end, this rule removes migration barriers and facilitates mobility and employment so that we can make the most of opportunities for legal migration. Although much of the provisions of the directive are already covered by our legal system, the transposition of the Community standard offers us a good opportunity to remove certain migration barriers or administrative burdens from the admission and residence procedures that still persist. Thus, through this royal decree-law, the Law on Support for Entrepreneurs and its internationalization is amended to introduce certain adjustments for the attraction and retention of international students, participation in internship programs and admission of international students and their mobility. In particular, two types of residence permits are created that will enable the holders to make the investigation compatible with the teaching and also the stay in our country of their families; the right to mobility within the European Union is regulated, so that the entities established in other countries can move to Spain the foreigners holding a residence permit; the entire process of obtaining residence permits is speeded up by registration in the unit of large companies and strategic groups of the entities engaged in the investigation; foreigners are allowed to stay in Spain twelve months after completing their research activity to seek work or undertake; a twelve-month residence permit is created, a residence permit for six renewable-month practices is established for another six for foreigners who have obtained a higher education certificate in the previous two years; and access to stay status for studies is provided through a visa-free permit for foreigners who are regularly present in Spain. This is therefore a highly qualified migration, which generates a very important added value in terms of potential growth for our country and also improves our image and international reputation. This is a project that has been very protected and dear to the Minister of Science. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law introduces two additional matters that are not transposition of directives: the amendment of the Law on the Legal Regime of Movements of Capital and Economic Transactions Abroad, to increase the deadline for resolving sanctioning files from three months to one year, thus aligning the deadline with the other procedures under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and the extension in two years, until 2020, of the initial deadline for the entry into force of the forecasts for the implementation of the e-Government, since additional measures are needed to ensure interoperability with citizens, which is also respectful of the different areas of competence of the different public administrations and which also guarantees the necessary legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish after this presentation, which has been a long one because the rules we were bringing for parliamentary validation today are very important, technical in nature, but they also have an influence on people's lives. As this royal decree-law can be seen, it includes topics of various kinds, but all of them are important, in order to promote labour mobility, consolidate workers' rights and fight more efficiently against money laundering and terrorist financing. In the preparation of these texts several ministries have collaborated, to which I have to thank their negotiating attitude, and I would also like to extend my thanks to the parliamentary groups that have already expressed their intention to vote in favour of validation, because I think it is very important that we turn this table of directives that are pending transposition into green, especially as far as I am concerned, within the Ministry of Economy and Enterprise. In any case, we are prepared that this royal-decree law be treated as a bill. I hope that this does not lead to a delay and that before the end of the year we can see the validation in green, as I have pointed out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As the Minister for Economic Affairs and Enterprise has pointed out, we are faced with a very broad and very relevant royal decree-law, whose validation I will give my vote in favour of the same as allowing me to highlight some issues on the subjects in which it deals. This is a transposition of directives that is urgent and that in the first of its titles affects the support of the rights of European workers when they are the subject of labour mobility and also of Spanish workers when mobility occurs within the national territory, so it is necessary to update the legislation according to the phenomenon of labour mobility, which in the case of the European field has reached very high figures in the last decade, which obliges us to take measures to preserve the rights of these workers, and that also affects the rights relating to their retirement pensions. In this sense, the new measures have an impact on the improvement of the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights for retirement, and from now on mechanisms are enabled to restrict the obstacles which, by age and age in the company, undermine the acquisition of rights in the face of mobility. In other words, one aspect to be highlighted is that of greater security of the worker's consolidated pension rights. Validation also affects instruments to prevent money laundering, in which Spain is making improvements to the European directives themselves in an area in which our country is complying with the global standards contained in the FATF Financial Action Task Force recommendations. The Royal Decree-Law also includes transpositions of directives relating to the entry and residence requirements of third-country nationals for different purposes of research, studies, practices, etc., and several legislative amendments relating to the legal regime for capital movements and economic transactions abroad. It also extends the time limits that our Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations Act has granted to gradually adapt different electronic records, empowerments, qualified public employees, general electronic access point to the Administration and single electronic archive. However, we agree, and that is why the Forum vote, Madam President, will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u7	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u8	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must acknowledge your commitment and your constancy in trying to meet the deadlines for transposing directives. We are certainly going to be late, but some of these delays are not going to recover, as some of the directives we are transposing today - we are going to try to validate the royal decree-law and thus transpose them - have a delay of a year or two that we are not going to avoid. In any case, I recognize it. Having said that, we also ask you to make a request that the effort to catch up should not prevent us from substantially improving our legislation, not only in the field of transposition, but also in the areas where further improvements can be made. I understand that this formula of the royal decree - which, as you can understand, we do not like - can be valid if it shows the predisposition to process these royal decrees-laws as bills a posteriori. Therefore, in this case and in the next, we will request it and, in turn, we will support it. Having said that, we will vote in favour in this case this royal decree-law. We understand that the three transpositions are more technical than political and that they favour our citizens, and we are therefore in this position. I'll just make a few comments. I believe that this can also be resolved by processing as a bill. For example, in the transposition of the fourth directive on the prevention of money laundering, we believe that no full transposition has been made and that some opportunity has been missed. As you have said, we should already be working on the transposition of the fifth directive at the moment, so some issues may be reserved for this fifth, but, for example, what Article 31 of the directive provides for with regard to the central register of royal holders, knowing that it is not easy and that it generates some controversy in different areas, should have been dealt with in this royal decree and in this transposition. In any case, given the Government's willingness to proceed as a draft law, we will support it and we have already moved that we introduce some amendments to that procedure. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u9	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u10	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. The purpose of this royal decree-law is to transpose into our domestic law a number of European directives, which, as the minister has said, are true, which were accumulating a delay in importing you and will therefore allow the infringement procedures opened by the Commission to be closed. These relate to pension commitments to workers, to the prevention of money laundering and to entry and residence requirements for nationals, researchers and foreign students. The statement of reasons justifies the use of the Royal Decree-Law, not only because of the delay in the transposition of these directives, but also because it carries a significant risk of fine, on the basis of Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union. We welcome the fact that the new Government has among its priorities to put an end to these delays and we also welcome its readiness to transpose directives in time, which has not been achieved so far. We understand that from now on this Government will comply with it and, in addition, by giving the groups the capacity to discuss and express their views on the matters and matters they bring to bear, in order to achieve the best possible adaptation of the various directives in our legislation. My group has been very critical, especially in the past year, of the delay in transposition, as well as the excessive use of the royal decree-law. It is not possible to affirm the extraordinary urgency required by the constitutional requirement, because the directives involve a more than predictable situation, since the dates of transposition of them are often known. Brussels should therefore be no longer used as a threat in this regard. Nor do we understand very well the use of a single royal decree-law for the systemic regulation in the same rule of three directives, as well as for the amendment of Law 39/2015, which delays the entry into force of the forecasts relating to the electronic registration of seizures, electronic registration, registration of qualified public employees, general and electronic access point of the Administration, and Law 19/2003 of 4 July, on the legal regime of capital movements and their economic transactions with the outside, as it constitutes a violation of the systematic order of the legal order, leading, at best, to a problem of legal uncertainty, and forcing each group to position itself only once before very different matters. This, in some cases, may complicate the vote and, in substance, does not seem to us to be a good legislative practice. This is about the shape. As far as the content is concerned, we believe that the three directives are correctly transposed. In addition, these are very technical subjects. As regards the protection of commitments to workers, conditions are laid down for the acquisition of the most favourable economic rights for workers, in particular those relating to undertakings' commitments to pensions for retirement. It also favours the consideration of workers' economic rights in supplementary forecasting systems and regulates workers' right to information relating to the acquisition of rights arising from pension commitments. With regard to measures for the prevention of money-laundering, it is true that the rule improves the mechanisms to be implemented by persons obliged to prevent money-laundering and the financing of terrorism. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u12	They are illegal activities that are normally characterized by the ability to adapt to the mechanisms of control and prevention, so the adequacy of the norm to this changing scenario is very appropriate and, in addition, is a very important element for the effectiveness of the system. The obligation to implement enhanced due diligence measures is incorporated; the regime applicable to persons with public responsibility is tightened; the threshold for the use of cash for traders is reduced; the penalty limits are adapted to the thresholds laid down by the Union; there are new rules on advertising and a system of communication or reporting of infringements of a confidential nature; and the obligation to register the service provider to companies and trusts is created. With regard to measures concerning the entry and residence requirements of third-country nationals for research, studies, practices, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and au pair placement, we understand that they mean better and greater opportunities for foreign students and professionals in Spain and, in addition, it is a question of promoting legal and, above all, qualified migration. Thus, the maximum duration limit for residence permits is extended, the requirements for obtaining permits and the application procedure are amended. Having said all this, my group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, but we also believe that it should not be obviated that neither the requirements of the principle of legal certainty, nor the legitimizing elements of the use of the royal decree-law, nor constitutional jurisprudence, nor the lack of due diligence in the transposition of directives are circumstances that must be highlighted, as the Minister has also done today. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u13	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this Royal Decree-Law 11/2018 that brings us today is a true compilation; you said it, an omnibus law. I'd call it a bunch of themes. I don't know if you remember the album Boom; the younger ones will remember this album. [[Shows the cover of a music disc]] In 1985 he collected styles as diverse as David Bowie, the Scorpions, Mechanic, Miguel Bose, Rocío Jurado; how about, also the summer king, Georgie Dann. [[Applauds]] I mean, they had nothing to do with it, but they had a point in common and it was obviously the musical successes of the year. Well, today you bring us here this royal decree-law boom, popurri, a refrain of directives, of regulations forced to transpose into our legal order, based on Article 86 of our Spanish Constitution: of extraordinary and urgent necessity. And it is that everyone has one thing in common: the repeated non-compliance with the transposition deadlines and, therefore - and you said at the outset - infringement procedures according to Article 260 of the operating treaty. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, Spain leads the ranking of fines for Community infringements. According to the European Union, we are the country which has the most directives awaiting transposition, in particular thirty-one, and more than half are defeated. By the way, Mrs. Calviño, your Ministry of Economy and Enterprise is the department with the most outstanding tasks and also with delays above average. It takes us 12 months more to transpose directives than the rest of the Community countries, so 70% of the sanctions - eye, 70% of the sanctions - of the European Union fall into the Kingdom of Spain. We are talking about EUR 54 million in recent years and the threat of EUR 95 million for non-compliance with mortgage legislation. Perhaps you do not think this amount is important, but remember, ladies and gentlemen, that this amount amounts to more than ten years of the staff costs of all your ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, we are champions in precarious employment; we are champions in public deficit, unemployment, and now we are champions in paying sanctions to the European Union for this government's incompetence to fail to meet the deadlines. And I wonder: when a citizen commits a sanction, who pays it? Does the citizen pay for it, does the State pay for it? Doesn't public money belong to anyone? It gives me the feeling that many of you think of it as the Vice-President of the Government, and this is a much more serious symptom. I'm talking about the paralysis of bipartisanism. If I may, ladies and gentlemen, during these two years, after two consecutive elections, we have seen a PP dragging his feet for the struggle for regeneration without fighting fraud and corruption. However, now, with a weak government of eighty-four deputies from Dr Sánchez, dependent on populisms and nationalisms, we see that he is unable to meet the great challenges of the labour market, education, autonomous financing and political regeneration and, in addition, he has recently raised legal arguments to amend that Act on budgetary stability which, moreover, the Constitutional Court has on 14 occasions condemned this fraud of law. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, we've only seen smoke curtains. The only major changes were when the high and middle executive positions of the Socialist Party, the so-called Dr. Sánchez's fingers, were changed. Madam Minister, our Citizens' Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this royal decree because of the need to avoid these sanctioning dossiers, but, of course, it will request processing as a bill, because we understand that if we go into detail in each of the titles, this regulation could be greatly improved. I will give you an example quickly, the royal decree consists of five titles. Title I, the Directive on improving the mobility of workers and their right to pension between Member States, which has expired since May 2018. Title II is that relating to the prevention of money laundering, which expired - he has already said - in June 2017 and also lacks the obligation to maintain an up-to-date list of tax havens. Although that may be a lot to ask of the Socialist Party, it was they who removed Panama from the list of tax havens and, in addition, made two tax amnesties. Title III relates to the requirements for the entry and residence of foreigners, which also expired in May 2018. And Title IV, the amendment to Act No. 19/2003, on capital movements. By the way, we have a very similar bill from Citizens for the fight against corruption that is paralyzed in the presentation phase. And lastly, Title V, the great failure, the great failure of the e-Government; two more years are going to delay the e-Government. And not only do I say this, says the Professional Association of Higher Bodies of Information Systems and Technologies of Public Administrations, which warns - I say quotes - that there is no planning of human and economic resources and that without this will not be achieved the objectives set. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we citizens suffer from a government inactivity; we suffer that this makes it impossible for administrative procedures to be agile, in addition to reducing this superfluous expenditure. And I see them much more interested, Minister, in raising taxes than in reducing expenditure. I'm done, Madam President. In short, from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we will vote in favour of this population of regulations - as I call it - to avoid this high economic cost by paying the penalties for these legislative delays and because, in addition, the conditions of workers, pensioners and even complainants improve. In addition, I insist, we will ask - and we have already moved it to the Bureau yesterday - for this bill to be able to enrich and amend this royal decree, and it is our obligation to prevent remaining champions in receiving sanctions from the European Union. It should also be yours, Minister. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, public money does belong to everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u15	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The actual decree that we are debating today for validation reflects the transposition of three European directives of very different themes but which have something in common, and is that the three have exceeded the deadline that the Member States had to transpose them into their legal order. Both from the Executive and from the Legislature it is worth reflecting on why it is so difficult to transpose some directives and why late transposition is commonplace. I thank the Minister for the information on the outstanding directives and for her willingness to speed up this process. Having said that, I begin to analyze each of the titles of this heterogeneous royal decree. In Title I, the Directive on the strengthening of the mobility of workers with regard to supplementary pension rights is undoubtedly an important legislative line, since the generalisation and importance that these instruments are acquiring in many countries requires greater harmonisation of national regulations. This royal decree mainly concerns collective insurance that articulates retirement commitments, the drafting of which can be made some critical considerations. First, insurance contracts which do not provide for the acquisition of pension rights in the event of termination of a contract, which may lead to protective differences in insurance contracts which do not actually have pension rights, remain outside the norm. Secondly, the social partners have little role to play. However, we do appreciate that while the directive was only applicable when there was mobility between Member States, the Royal Decree extends the application of the directive's rule to internal mobility. In Title II, on money laundering and the financing of terrorism, we must take into account that the pursuit of money laundering has a marked supranational character and requires the cooperation of the Member States in order not to create spaces of impunity. It is therefore important that the transposition of the directive is carried out in time and form in a harmonised way throughout the European Union. This is something that Spain has not done, either because of leniency or lack of interest, but which has led to the opening of a formal infringement procedure. The Royal Decree provides for the creation of a register for natural or legal persons providing services to companies, including information on the types of services and the last holder of the companies. Our group is always in favour of greater transparency, especially with regard to operations that can help prevent money laundering. It is true that there have been some criticisms of this regulation, including those of the General Council of Lawyers, which considers this rule to be excessive and disproportionate, an opinion which, according to our group, has certain nuances. Firstly, that the new obligations do not represent major developments in terms of legal persons and professional societies, because they already existed, nor the type of information they should provide. The main novelty is therefore the registration of natural persons in the Commercial Register, and it is at this point that the necessary provisions could be developed through regulation in order to avoid duplicity of obligations that increase the administrative burden of persons exercising the legal profession. Title III, concerning the requirements for the entry and residence of third-country nationals, is a directive which completely falls within the European Commission's policy objective of making the European Union an attractive area for trained and qualified profiles, especially in the scientific and technological fields. We regret that this is a transposition of minimums, since the directive left the decision on whether or not to include people in exchange programmes, educational projects, voluntary work other than European service and au pair placement, collectives that have not finally been included in the royal decree, to the hands of the States. However, what draws us most to the attention of the transposition of this directive is that it has been done in two rules. On the one hand, as far as researchers are concerned, it has been done by amending the Act on Entrepreneurs, while the rest of the European service's collectives, studies, practices and volunteers are transposed by amending the Organic Aliens Act and its regulations. This legal technique is questionable, because it involves a dispersion of the legal norms of aliens according to the collective concerned. In this respect, we have a number of questions: Are we going to sectoralize migration policy? Are we going to regulate the entry and stay in sectoral laws on the basis of the economic activity that these people are going to develop in the European Union? Ladies and gentlemen, our group does not at all share this selective migration policy based on criteria of excellence and not on human rights, which obliges us to raise substantive reflections that go beyond the actual decree. What makes some people more deserving than others of having the facilities to stay and work in our country? How is the contribution to the host society valued? What is more valuable to our society, an engineer developing intelligent weapons or a caregiver who helps families with their dependents? [[Applauds]] Our group is certainly in favour of facilitating the processes of people who want to settle in our country and attracting trained and qualified profiles for the scientific and technological challenges ahead, but please do not fall into the simplicity of believing that administrative procedures are the main barrier that researchers or students have to settle in Spain. Remember, for example, that official calls and forms are not in English, many of them can only be accessed if you are a holder of a DNI; or simply the steps you have to make in physical records for certain requests. There are also structural issues that we cannot ignore. Let us not expect to be attractive to researchers until there is a commitment and stability in the financing of our R & D & i system, until there is a research career that will stabilize science professionals and, above all, as long as precariousness is the main feature of our labour market also for qualified profiles. We have no objection to Title IV or Title V. In summary, our group appreciates the contributions of this royal decree to our legal system and agrees, although with nuances, with the transposition that is made, we will therefore vote in favour and we will also vote in favour of the processing as a bill to improve the wording of Title I and include in Title III the collectives that the royal decree leaves out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u17	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u18	Very good morning. Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group today we call for the vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 11/2018, which seeks to transpose three European directives that were pending, as has been said here, to be incorporated into Spanish legislation. I tell you that they were pending and also at risk of a major fine, which was detrimental to our country's interests, because now it is the fines that were previously the surprises, surprises like the last, that we have met with a budget hole of 5.5 billion euros, or the 42 billion euros of debt, or the hole of the pensions emptied. Now it's fines, lots of fines. Because you, the People's Party of Europe, do not want and reject the result of the negotiation of this government that has achieved an additional EUR 6 billion to invest in our citizens, in recovering rights and in social policies, but you have accepted, without moving a finger, all the fine communications and millionaire complaints that during these years and for their scant attention have directed us from Brussels. So if we started talking about inheritance, we wouldn't have a notary to write down so much debt. In today's case, there are many cases of sanctioning the Community institutions which are stalking us for failing to transpose European legislation in time. He told them that we called for their support in a series of measures aimed at strengthening workers'rights, strengthening their pensions, attracting talent and having zero tolerance for money laundering. It's a real heterogeneous decree, right, but it contains measures of great impact. A first one that seeks to strengthen the mobility of workers between Member States, guaranteeing rights, that workers can maintain their collective insurance in the event of a change of employment or reduce obstacles to the acquisition of supplementary pension rights for retirement, for example, because it is true that there are many difficulties for thousands of Spaniards who have had to leave in recent years in the face of the impossibility of having a future here. Today, with this transposition, we are making progress in guaranteeing their rights because this Government has taken responsibility for them and for them: making it possible for them to return to that return plan that will be launched shortly and, while they are away, to feel that their country is with them, and that is also done, for example, by giving them back the right of health that the People's Party took away from them in 2012. That is also the universalization of health that the Government has just recovered for all those Spaniards who had to go out looking for their lives and that when they returned home with their families to our country they were left without health protection. They also recovered health care only fifteen days ago all those Spaniards who in the 1960s and 1970s had to go to work in different European countries and that when they returned to Spain to enjoy their pension, especially and fundamentally women, they also did not have this right to health care. Secondly, the directive on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism is being adapted, tightening, as the minister said, the sanctions regime and expanding the complaint channels. By the way, this is a rule that had not been transposed in time and in form had a reasoned opinion with a fine of 100,000 euros per day for our country. They know that we share the view that the challenges in the fight against new terrorism, cyberterrorism and comprehensive security need the harmonisation of these rules, which represent a great step forward in the common European fight against the financing of organised crime, an important step towards reducing money-laundering systems and thus combating terrorist threats associated with the use of new technologies in financial transactions. Finally, a third initiative to improve our position and be able to attract talent, to become a centre of excellence for studies and training, to facilitate the work of researchers, international students who, after completing their studies, want to undertake a business project. This Government has made it clear: the future is built under the denominator of innovation and talent, and not, as hitherto, of wage devaluation and of becoming a low-cost country of workers. In short, what does this Government demonstrate by urgently adopting this legislation? Its very clear European vocation, its responsibility to the institutions, to which we belong, but above all to the citizens of this country, because, moreover, let us be honest, the situation in this regard is complicated, of course. Every time we move a paper, we lift a folder or open a drawer, we find wrinkled several important directives that had not been transposed and that also put Spain at risk of a fine by the European Commission. From the point of view of political responsibility, there is no reason to justify Spain's failure to transpose these directives, because we cannot continue to breach obligations and deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many European directives the People's Party government has left pending transposition? Seventy-two. Do you know how many are running out of time? Twenty-six. And of these, how many have an open infringement process? Twenty-three. Furthermore, in the first half of this year, do you know how many notices the European Commission has given us? Nineteen notices, and we've come to three complaints. So we believe in the Socialist Parliamentary Group that this is enough. Spain cannot continue to marry in Europe with millions of fines, with coercive sanctions, with infringement proceedings, with complaints to the Court of Justice of the European Union, or perhaps some of the former Government should explain that, if it were not for the reason that this current Government has assumed and has taken over the reins, we would be about to receive fines of 49000 euros per day, others of 106000 euros per day and even of 124000 euros per day of delay in fulfilling our obligation. We don't want to conjugate with that. Nor, as Mr Casado says, in this country we want to join in Europe with support from governments such as the ultra-rightist Orbán, of course we do not want to. So, fortunately for the Spaniards, today we have a president who fulfills his obligations and who from the very first moment has made it clear that the game for Spain to win is playing by fulfilling in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u19	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing the validation of the Royal Decree-Law transposing directives on the protection of pension commitments to workers, the prevention of money laundering and requirements for the entry and residence of third-country nationals and amending the Law on the common administrative procedure of public administrations. If we were guided by this broad and extensive title, we might come to think that after more than a hundred days, finally Mr Sánchez's Government might be beginning to bear some fruit other than improvisation and occurrence, and it might even seem that, after the contradictions, assertions and corrections between the various members of the Government, there might be some coordination between them, since it seems that the Vice-President of the Government and six ministers have agreed on something. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, this seems like it might not have happened. It is a mirage, because the only thing they have agreed on is in the use of the work of others, taking it as their own. What does that sound like to you? [[Applauds]] This week we have had a new example: The People's Party on Monday announces the elimination of a tax to lower the price of electricity to all Spaniards, Monday announces the proposal of the People's Party, and yesterday Wednesday the Minister of Ecological Transition announces that they will do what we have previously announced. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law incorporates the development that had already been made by the People's Party for the transposition of three directives and which also reaffirms the reformist process of our last two governments. Firstly, workers' mobility is facilitated by reducing obstacles to maintaining pension rights for workers' retirement. Secondly, new measures are being developed in the field of the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, expressly recognizing in the explanatory statement the value of our law on transparency, access to public information and good governance, a law in which the People's Party implemented this directive in advance and even inspired it, of course, a law which you Socialists said no to. Thirdly, we are making progress in the work already done by us in the Law of Support for Entrepreneurs and their internationalization in order to facilitate entry and residence for research, studies, practices or volunteering purposes, thus advancing the talent attraction project already initiated by the People's Party. I also recall that the Socialist Party also said no to this Act on Entrepreneurs and its internationalization. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the work of the People's Party in favour of the Spaniards and of our country to which the PSOE has incorporated some of its own harvest, a paragraph that we can see in the State Official Gazette, this paragraph, in which it states: 'However, the forecasts for the electronic registration of seizures, the electronic registration, the registration of qualified public employees, the general electronic access point of the Administration and the single electronic archive will have effect from 2 October 2020'. [[shows a document]] A new example of kicking ahead of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] But its paragraphs always have an origin and, above all, have consequences. They have an origin, which is always the same, the payment to their government partners; the payment for the votes for Mr Sánchez to sit in La Moncloa. This Tuesday it was Podemos with the housing and today it is for the independenceists with the delay of the e-government until October 2020. [[Applauds]] And they have consequences, because this paragraph represents a dry stop in the process of modernization and reform of our Administration, with the shutdown until the end of 2020 of the Digital Administration. And they lie, they lie in their royal decree-law, and they know it; they lie in writing. You base this braking on technical and procedural aspects that you know enjoy the appropriate degree of maturity thanks to the work and effort of the People's Party, which has always been a strong driver of a 21st century administration that is more transparent and agile. You know that technological developments are made; that tools are ready and platforms are interoperable. It is not necessary to wait two years; it is not necessary to wait for a new government so that citizens and public administrations can exercise rights with full security and benefit from the digital administration. Being ready for October 2018 is not understandable a two-year delay in the implementation of the Paperless Administration. You incorporate in this royal decree an unjustified delay that will affect citizens, businesses and economic growth. And if that's not the reason, then you might wonder what the real reason is. Ask yourself how much the opinion of the Catalan Government weighs; ask yourself how much the unconstitutionality appeal submitted by the Catalan Government weighs. In short, they wonder how much their independence partners weigh. We already know that you have given up control of the accounts of the Government of Catalonia, but with this paragraph you asked, Minister: Are you giving up control that the Catalan Government can develop a parallel public administration without state control? [[Applauds]] I ask you: Is this paragraph making it easier for the Catalan Government to create a parallel administration on its road to building an independent State, as you have already tried to do in the past? Does this paragraph form part of Mr Sánchez's agreements, which he and you must comply with in order to remain in the government? And I ask you this not because we are suspicious, but because we do not forget what their governing partners are constantly telling you. Yesterday, Mr Tardà said something; I remind him expressly. He said to Mr.Sanchez: Mr.Sanchez, it will be your political tomb if you do not delve into the self-government of Catalonia. That is why I ask you again: Is this paragraph another condition in the deepening of the independence process in Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u21	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 12/2018, OF 7 SEPTEMBER, OF SECURITY OF NETWORKS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS. [[File number 130/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u22	We move, ladies and gentlemen, to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 12/2018 of 7 September on security in information networks and systems. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Economy and Enterprise has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u23	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise again to present another royal decree-law for the transposition of another Community directive. The Cybersecurity Directive, known as the NIS Directive by its acronym in English - Network and Information Security - which the Ministry of Economy and Enterprise brings to validation. I do not have to insist on the importance of transposing directives. In this case we are talking, as with the previous directives, about an issue of extraordinary importance, such as protecting the high level of security of information networks and systems through a global and joint approach in the European Union, in the face of a challenge that clearly transcends national borders. This Directive adopted in 2016 is the first European standard on cybersecurity to support and facilitate the exchange of information and strategic cooperation between States and is therefore one of the basic pieces of legislation in the development and achievement of the Digital Single Market. The objectives of the directive are several: firstly, to improve the level of security of the networks and information systems supporting the provision of services, thereby increasing the confidence of users and service providers. As you all know, the main sectors of economic and social activity are increasingly using digital services and, unfortunately, they are increasingly the subject of incidents affecting both networks and their users. Most of these incidents are due to accidental failures, configuration errors, use or deficiencies of systems, however a significant number are caused by deliberate attacks, in many cases of criminal nature. Illustratively, let me mention that the cyber-incident management team, the Cumputer Emergency Response Team, CERT, Security and Industry, the National Cybersecurity Institute, the Incibe, went from handling some 18,000 incidents in 2014 to more than 123000 last year. Events that include computer infections with ransomware programs, emails that supplant legitimate users, what is known as phising, or launch massive access requests to overflow and block web pages. They therefore do not escape the importance of increasing the security of our systems in order to prevent such practices and, in turn, to increase the confidence that information and communication technologies give rise to. Secondly, this directive aims to improve the effectiveness of combating crimes involving information networks and systems, thereby reducing their impact on legal certainty and national security. This increased effectiveness will be achieved both by strengthening networks and information systems in the face of potential attacks and by improving incident coordination and management systems in an area that, as I said, transcends national borders. Thirdly, the directive seeks to promote the development of the digital single market by approving safety requirements in all Member States, thereby reducing the fragmentation of the internal market and facilitating the provision of services on a transnational basis. In short, this directive aims to create the right conditions for citizens and businesses to access digital goods and services markets with confidence and security; it is absolutely vital. Ambitious objectives with a very positive potential impact on the economy and security. This royal decree-law that we bring to validation today describes the subjects who are obliged to comply with it; in particular, they are considered to be three subjects who are obliged: essential service providers who depend on the networks and information systems considered in the NIS Directive, i.e. agents who operate energy services, transport, banking, financial services, the health sector, the supply of drinking water and digital infrastructures. The Royal Decree-Law extends the scope to other critical operators of telecommunications and reliable services, as well as to the sectors of administration, space, the chemical industry, research facilities and food. All of them are already covered by the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act with which this royal decree retains maximum coherence. I would like to point this out because during the preparation of the legislative text we have been turning it around to ensure that these texts are absolutely coherent. The second subjects required to comply with the standard are digital service providers on the online markets, on-line search engines, cloud computing services, provided that they are suppliers established in the European Union with principal head office in Spain or those not established in Community territory who have designated our country as a representative to the Union, except for SMEs or micro-enterprises. I would also like to focus on the attention we have paid not to establish disproportionate requirements on smaller operators. The standard also applies to critical electronic communications network and service operators and trusted electronic service providers. In addition to establishing the scope of application, the Royal Decree-Law sets out certain obligations, for example, in the area of prior security risk assessment, the adoption of technical and organisational measures to respond to these risks and determined steps to prevent and minimize the impact of any possible incident. Competent authorities may require operators of essential services to provide information on their security measures and policies and, of course, action may be taken to request the adoption of certain measures if there are breaches. There are also reporting obligations to the National Centre for Critical Infrastructure Protection and Cybersecurity of Events and a voluntary incident notification procedure is finally in place to ensure the protection of this confidential information, with a regime that protects the reporting entity and the reporting staff. Finally, the normative text includes a sanctioning regime. It is not a question of sanctioning the occurrence of an incident, this is important, but only if the necessary measures have not been taken to prevent it, to minimize its impact or the lack of notification of such occurrences when it is mandatory. The sanctioning system is, of course, based on the principles of proportionality and also provides a framework for governance with the various institutions in our country. It is not a question of adding new institutions but of delineating very clearly the functions of the National Centre for the Protection of Infrastructure and Cybersecurity, the National Cryptological Centre, the cyber-incident response teams and establishing coordination procedures in both the Spanish and Community institutions. I do not have to insist on the urgency of transposing this rule, as I said, not only because of the delay in transposing it, but also because of the importance of these aspects of security and strategy, taking into account the huge number of operations and transactions taking place in our country and the exponential growth of services in the network. Spain starts from a good point of departure in relation to cybersecurity because since 2013 we have a national cybersecurity strategy, our public sector is a pioneer in promoting the security of information systems, we have a plan to protect critical infrastructures, but this transposition will allow us to further improve our security levels and promote the integration of the digital single market. As was the case with the previous royal decree-law, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parliamentary groups that have already expressed their support for us and, of course, also to express the openness of the Government to proceed with a process in the form of a law and thus to have the highest level of security in our networks and information systems, and the transposition will be carried out as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u24	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our membership of the European Union calls on us to transpose directives in this case relating to the security of networks and information systems, a matter of special concern and growing concern in view of the events and incidences that often arise in the ongoing process of global adaptation to technologies. The complication of this royal decree-law allows our legislation to be updated at a higher rate and in areas that have often been called for in this very rostrum and also through parliamentary initiatives. As the text of this new set of regulations is very extensive, let me specifically refer to what refers to cybersecurity, an issue which is of enormous parliamentary relevance as well, and indeed the General Courts have, within their Joint Committee on National Security, made a presentation for the study of various issues relating to cybersecurity in Spain. The Royal Decree-Law explained by the Minister of Economy and Enterprise requires the strategic and institutional framework to achieve a number of objectives and measures to promote and advance the security levels of networks and information systems across the European Union. [[The Lord]] In this regard, it seems appropriate to recall that only two years ago the European Union created a specific portfolio for security in order to face growing challenges, including combating terrorism, combating organised crime, protecting against cyberattacks and, if that were not enough, stopping interference in democratic processes. The task is and will be colossal, with an equivalent economic and social impact. From the legislative point of view, we are therefore taking the necessary steps to establish common rules and coordination with the whole of the European Union that will enable the space in which criminals, defrauders, terrorists and network pirates operate in their varied versions, including bubble advertisers and digital punch promoters, to be narrowed down. The validation of this royal decree-law, which I will support with my vote, establishes security obligations for essential service operators and digital service providers and contributes to strengthening our legislation to grow in network security and also the creation of boundaries, barriers and borders to combat the new criminal forms that affect our defence, but which also takes as propitiatory victims the single market digitally and uniquely to consumers and users to whom we have an obligation to protect. The incorporation of all these rules into our legal system will, as I said, count on the favourable vote of Foro Asturias. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u27	Thank you very much. An initial comment to the previous speech by the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs López: If you understand from the introduction of this paragraph that it is to deepen the independence process in Catalonia, you have not learned at all what is happening in Catalonia or what the objectives of the people of Catalonia are. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Minister, we are not going to vote in favour, we are going to vote against this royal decree because it is not just a transposition, it is a transposition of a directive and a very clear invasion of the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We understand that the capacity for self-organization of the Generalitat itself, article 150 of the Statute is not respected, we understand that article 121 is not respected as regards the normative capacity of the Generalitat in relation to electronic commerce, and we believe that four more articles of the Autonomous Statute of Catalonia are not respected. Therefore, we are going to stand absolutely against it. Obviously, we will support the procedure to see if we have the opportunity to remedy some of these serious shortcomings during the debate in this House. In addition, this royal decree, apart from transposing this directive, also attacks frontally the Law 15/2017 that passed the Parliament of Catalonia on the Agency of Cybersecurity of Catalonia. As for this law, which was appealed by the Spanish Government and which we obviously have to ask to withdraw this remedy of unconstitutionality, now the problem is not only the remedy of unconstitutionality but this actual decree-law. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Generalitat submitted allegations a few weeks ago because, as you recall, Article 155 was applied in Catalonia and for many months the Government of the Generalitat was in the hands of the Government of Spain. I would also like to remind Mrs López that the finances of the Generalitat are still involved, but the intervention of the finances of the Generalitat was established by Mr Montoro and the Government of the People's Party. Therefore, do not blame the new government of the Socialist Party for its actions. In any case, Minister, withdraw the unconstitutionality appeal and rectify in the parliamentary procedure all this invasion of the powers of the Government of the Government of the Republic of Catalonia and the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u29	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the validation of the Royal Decree Law 12/2018 on the security of networks and information systems, which aims to increase the security of operators of essential services and digital providers who use them for the provision of their services. We are told that all this is to comply with the NIS Directive, whose transposition expired on 9 May and whose delay led to the initiation by the European Commission of a formal infringement procedure. However, the need to address urgently the non-compliance with the NIS Directive, which motivates the adoption of the Decree-Law, the validation of which we are now discussing, is not entirely certain, as the Decree-Law goes beyond its regulation of the scope of the Directive. The Decree-Law extends to additional sectors to those covered by the Directive, such as all the services of the Administration and its public sector, space, the chemical and nuclear industry or research and food facilities, to name but a few. With this extension of the scope of the directive we are told that the maximum coherence between the Decree-Law and Law 8/2011, on the protection of critical infrastructures in its field of action, and also - it is said - to share aspects as organs and procedures for the identification of essential services and their operators, as well as the designation of competent authorities and response teams - CERT or CSIRT - of reference for the critical sectors. This is also not true, however, at least for the autonomous communities and local authorities and their respective public sectors. In fact, for autonomous communities and local authorities - mainly for autonomous communities - the patterns are broken that for their participation in the protection of critical infrastructures and national security were agreed in Law 8/2011, on the protection of critical infrastructures, and in Law 36/2015, on National Security, respectively, for incidents that could affect them; let alone the division of functions already established in general legislation, such as the Law on the Protection of Citizen Security, the Law on Private Security or the same Organic Law on Security Forces and Bodies. The problem we face in this royal decreeley is that it is said that there is a way of acting between the State Administration and the autonomy already consolidated in the aforementioned laws, but this is not the case. The State considers that both the directive and the Royal Decree-Law have created a new territorial area, cyberspace, which exorbitantly falls within its exclusive competence in terms of regulation and governance. The issue is that this area of cyberspace, which is displayed in networks and systems used by operators of essential services and digital providers to deliver their services, is characterized by its transversality and omnipresence, given the unstoppable process of digitisation of all public and private activity. Thus, given the competitively decentralized provision of essential services, we also believe that their security should be. It should therefore be possible for the Autonomous Communities to adopt measures for the regulation and governance of their networks and information systems when they relate to the implementation of their sectoral competences. Not only - which also - its powers of self-organization must be respected, but also those which fall within the security of persons and goods, health, transport, research, water, food..., to quote some of those referred to in the annex to Law 8/2011 to which the decree-law refers. The decree-law designs a division of powers that totally excludes the autonomous communities, except as passive subjects of the activity of the General Administration of the State. It places them in a position subordinate to the General Administration of the State, which is established as the only body competent to supervise their activity, control them, give them directives and also sanction them in matters of networks and computer systems, used by those for the provision of their services. It even determines that where incidents in networks and systems affect personal data of citizens and their security, the only cooperating interlocutor will be the state agency, ignoring the autonomous data protection authorities and their competences, despite the fact that they are recognized in the processing of the organic data protection law, in which we are currently working in the Justice Commission. The decree-law states that it takes the reference to Law 8/2011 on the protection of critical infrastructures, and yet it alters the pattern that this law - also that of national security - confers on the autonomous communities, an active role both in linking the powers of the law with the corresponding sectoral competences and in conferring supervisory and control functions on the autonomous communities with security competences, without impairing the integrity of the state system of protection of these critical infrastructures. The decree-law, on the other hand, visualizes the autonomous communities as more administrative units within the State Administration, with the ability to supervise them and control their activity, both through the National Cryptological Center, which depends on the CNI, and the Secretariat of State for Security, if these are critical essential services of competence of those. What the decree-law seeks is that it is not in accordance with the institutional principle of autonomy recognized in the Constitution and in the statutes of autonomy, nor is it justified in the reception of the NIS Directive. We do not understand that it is proportional to the safeguarding of the necessary coordination of the security measures of the networks and information systems between public administrations, for which it must arbitrate the ordinary mechanisms of cooperation and coordination already envisaged in our constitutional and sectoral legal order. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalising, President - the determination of the competent authorities must take account of the sectoral competence which corresponds to the competent distribution of the sectors and services listed in the annex to the Royal Decree-Law. The NIS Directive does not preclude each State from naming one or more authorities and their existence does not prevent the designation of a single safety contact point, as required by the Directive. The same applies to autonomous CERTs - some already existing, such as in the Basque Country - which should be able to be set up as a reference in their fields for advisory services, early warning and anti-incident response to public or private entities operating in the public sector established in their territory. Autonomic reference centres that would be valuable allies for state reference centres, coordinating in their functions for promotion, promotion of good practices, notification, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, globalisation calls for networking, cooperation and competition, discarding hierarchical conceptions that are in conflict with the new time. Therefore, we will not be able to support the validation of this Decree-Law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u31	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, a year ago, the Judicial Police, instead of pursuing corruption, collaborated with a corrupt, partial and repressive State trying, yes, to hinder democracy. [[Applauds]] Without success because democracy always wins and you know it. [[Mr Floriano Corrales: Anniversary of the assault]] Good morning to you too, Mr Floriano, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, Minister. We are again here debating the adoption of a real decree-law on the security of networks and information systems, a real decree-law that undoubtedly addresses an issue that is increasingly relevant, that of cybersecurity. We do not deny the need to transpose a European directive even if it is bad and late as it is today, but we are critical, and very critical, of the way it has been transposed. You have a problem, and it is that you continue to have a vision above all centralist, Jacobin of the State. As Mr. Legarda brilliantly said, even when they create a new space, they create it Jacobin. The Kingdom of Spain has therefore adopted the most centralized model that the directive offered to create. In fact, in Catalonia, given the importance of this issue, there is already an entity, the Cesicat, which works for a secure digital society for the whole of Catalan society, for its public administration. Moreover, in the face of a series of scandals related to cyberattacks, our group, Esquerra Republicana, supported the re-founding of this entity and a law that contemplated the creation of an agency of cybersecurity, approved by the Parliament of Catalonia on 12 July, the Law 15/2007 that reminded them of Mr Bel and that - they guess again? - is currently paralyzed by a remedy of unconstitutionality that this government has not withdrawn; what absurd, minister, is this challenging argument, that of equality by default. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, in Catalonia we are already concerned with covering the institutional level of matters as relevant as this, although with the application of real decrees of this kind we only see our ability to exercise autonomous, legitimate and legally assigned to the Generalitat of Catalonia being undermined. Looking at Josep Pla, what is most similar in Spain to a right-wing refocuser is a left-wing refocuser. Therefore, and bearing in mind that the current drafting of this royal decree leaves no room for the creation of entities that can be responsible for cybersecurity in territories of autonomous communities and since our institutions have already advanced in this area - an effort paralysed once again by the Constitutional Court - we will not vote in favour. We will ask you to continue your process as a bill and link our amending commitment to the withdrawal of the repeated appeal. Thank you very much, good morning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u33	President, ladies and gentlemen, I was and will start talking about the transposition of this royal decree, but first I will make a brief mention that it seems that only the nationalists of our country are not with the changeover and the rest of the world is. That is, we are in the era of globalization, of international cooperation, of seeking collective answers, but no, there is a state of autonomy that has constitutionalist parties, but as some nationalist party has it is necessary to change the entire global scheme of cybersecurity so that they can have the satisfaction that their competences are being respected. [[Applauds]] Today we are here to see the transposition of this NIS Directive, Royal Decree-Law 12/2018, a law on network security and information systems. The minister has commented on the delay we are carrying and the violations we can commit. I would like to highlight here something that has also been seen previously by some of the speakers, and it is the lack of real political awareness about the importance of this subject, which seems to be a small subject that is penetrating society and that is increasingly a little more important, and I would use a vulgar term like 'alucino' when I really hear those appreciations, as if the change of era was to deny it or to relativize it would not affect them in this sense. As for that change of era we all saw what it meant to move from agrarian society to industrial society, we have already seen less of the transition from industrial society to the Internet era; in fact, the companies took time to get on the Internet and it was the native population that determined the total gratuity that has caused the companies to have to adapt later to this type of business model, and that did not impact any type of cost within the network. Why? Because they got in late in this direction. From here we have seen still less the change of time that is going to be provoked with artificial intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen, if we read the Journals of Sessions, and above all the nationalist parties, big data wins elections; fake news can also win elections, and automation can destroy a lot of employment in the future if we do not work it well in advance to put in the necessary measures. [[Laughter]] I do not understand those laughters that I have heard from the background, precisely from some nationalist, but surely, I repeat, we are all on a changed footing. I would suggest you go to an academy to use, to start learning computer principles, and after the Internet, after artificial intelligence, and then go up to this rostrum. [[Protests.-Applause.]] This change of era, ladies and gentlemen, implies that the most valuable photographic company does not sell cameras, is Instagram; that the highest performance television network does not use cables, is called Netflix; that the largest media does not create content, is Facebook; that the biggest increase in calls does not have infrastructures, is called Skype or that the largest software and service company uses advertising and is called Google. Ladies and gentlemen, we could continue to set many more examples. Every year 111 billion lines of code are produced, and from 2017 to 2022 we are going to move from 38 billion people connected to the Internet to 6 billion people; in 2020 twenty million cars will be connected, and I remember that 2020 is next door, it is a year and a peak, and there is not much more. Ladies and gentlemen, artificial intelligence is already ubiquitous and is beginning to be applied in multiple fields, something that will soon be in everyone. In 2017 we had 8.4 billion devices, in 2020 we will have 200 billion devices, adding the Internet of Things, which will allow them to connect, and artificial intelligence will allow them to rethink and change processes. Tell me if this about cybersecurity is a topic to joke about or to learn with medium-term courses. We need to develop a social and business culture of cybersecurity. Eighty-two per cent of the boards of the big companies already look at it, but our SMEs, our medium-sized companies still don't. We need to train and accredit professionals, we need millions of high-quality jobs in the European Union in this field, and therefore, just as jobs resulting from automation can be destroyed, we must also take advantage of those that give us globalisation. We need certification, specialized audits, public-private cooperation, information exchange, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, cybersecurity needs a state pact, and that is why we will start by supporting this royal decree-law, and we share that because of its importance it must have the status of law in order to be able to bring things into the development of the necessary public hearing that it must have, or to consider further the aspects of supervision, or to correct future coordination problems that may not be resolved at this time, as well as to reduce part of the bureaucracy, because we believe that it may be excessive that which is contemplated in the royal decree-law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a first step, but the cybersecurity presentation that is taking place in the Committee on National Security has to mark the following, but while there are people who think that the ideological debates - which confront us, which divide us, which do not bring us anything - are the relevant debates, and not the employment of the future, seeking solutions to help those countries of origin who have to migrate massively, and then we have the problem and here we are broken and torn up when we talk about them, so we have to solve the problem of immigration, and also work on climate change, on the 2030 Agenda, to make public policies stop being incompatible with the future of our children, ladies and gentlemen, and of course also on cybersecurity. I would therefore like to encourage this House and the Government and ask you to reflect on who are the partners with whom you want to carry out the budgets, who are the partners that keep this government: those who exclusively blackmail their budgets if you give them free self-determination, through the referendum, those who are willing to change the entire cybersecurity system of our country simply to respect some competition. I hope that they do not accept that, because that would endanger the whole of the Spanish State simply by drawing some budgets forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. After the speeches that preceded me in the rostrum I think it is not appropriate to take things to the extreme, and it is clear that the concrete text of this royal decree-law that is brought to validation today has problems. My parliamentary group had already identified some issues that we would like to discuss, change, improve, and that is why from the very beginning we called for it to be treated as a bill and we could make the changes. After the speeches that have been made, we reaffirm ourselves more in this, and we are glad that the Minister said today in her first speech that the Government - gladly - and the Socialist Parliamentary Group also accept that it is being treated as a bill. But I would like to begin by saying that we are faced with an extraordinary legislative process, and I do not think that we will insist quite strongly that this is not the ordinary procedure of legislativeizing in our legal system, it is a real decree which, in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court 1/2012, is in line with what is said in Article 86 of our Constitution, and therefore what we are doing is to transpose a directive which came out two years ago; but, ladies and gentlemen, it is an extraordinary procedure. The previous item was also another extraordinary procedure. Two weeks ago I came to this rostrum also in another extraordinary procedure of a law that we are regularly dealing with, because the previous government did not bring them when it had to bring the corresponding bills to the House on directives, regulations, European regulations that more than two years ago came into force, which ended their transposition deadline last May, and we are in the month that we are, after the summer, in September, doing these things. Ladies and gentlemen, we are resorting too much to extraordinary legislative means, and that is not desirable. The current government, whether in this case the Socialist Party, which is unravelling a situation that had been given to it, or that of the People's Party previously, has done wrong in not bringing the relevant bills and in turning this into virtually a full debate. That is why my parliamentary group, since this debate is practically a full-fledged debate, as if amendments had been tabled as a whole and the Government were defending its draft and we are debating these amendments, is not going to oppose validation, we are going to vote in favour, but aware that in the second question to be discussed when we come to this rostrum, the content of the text of the Royal Decree-Law 12/2018 that we validate, there are problems. There are problems that we are not going to magnify, but which concern the structure of the State, the autonomous structure and the competences of the autonomous communities - statutory powers, entities that are already developed, both in the Basque Country and in Catalonia, and with which it is appropriate to count on the improvement of collective security - and therefore my parliamentary group is offering to the other groups that have today expressed their willingness not to support this validation to work in the process of amendments to eliminate all those problems that have existed. My parliamentary group is not in the sphere of Jacobinism, but in the sphere of federalism, the plurality of the State, and from territorial plurality and political plurality, a higher value of our legal system, we believe that this text needs to be improved. It needs to improve not only on the autonomous issue, but also on other issues. For example, we believe that the opportunity to include in article 20, where workers are granted protection, is lost, and it is to thank the figure of white hat, people who seek things without evil in the networks, who discover and notify them, but that many times, despite that notification and having searched without evil, they end up being persecuted. It would be necessary to introduce some protection to this figure. Article 30 should also be turned around. We are working on all these issues in the presentation in the Committee on Justice on the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Article 30 refers precisely to the transfer of personal data, and I think we should turn to the wording. Under no circumstances can it be a breach of the principles laid down in Regulation 2016/679 of the European Union, which we are transposing into that data protection bill. And we should also review the inclusion of the deletion of data, which is not included in the actual decree that we are validating. My group believes that Title VIII, the sanctions regime, should also be revised. You'd have to take a walk. The minister has said that they are properly graduated, but the fact that in minor mistakes the imposition of the sanction is from a warning simply up to 100000 euros makes us think that it is too broad a graduation. Just as, in my view, it is questionable that, in determining the competent authorities to punish certain offences, the Government is given the capacity to do so by regulation. We believe that this should be closed by a legal text, a law-class text, and that it should not be handed over to the Government's regulatory channel. We also believe that we should turn to article 42, on the issue of the occurrence of infringements. In short, it is not the best possible text. It clearly has ways of improving, and we share it with various parliamentary groups. That's why we're going to do two things. One is to vote for validation, because if not, what is the alternative? Don't validate the royal decree? Following the sanction procedure opened by the European Union? Require the Government to bring another text with another bill within a specified time frame? Doesn't seem like the most operational thing. At the moment it seems that the most operational thing is to validate it, to process it as a bill, and that in that process - let us hope that it will not be eternalized as other bills are being eternalized in this House; I do not want to repeat the last speeches I made, but let us hope that it will not be eternalized as others are being eternalized - it will be improved and all these rulings that have been expressed by various parliamentary groups will be corrected. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Veracruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u37	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are transposing a European directive, the NIS, as the minister has brilliantly explained, It is a directive that, for the first time, makes cybersecurity regulated in all the countries of the European Union, whose importance at global level I think we are missing this morning. As has already been said here, both in the debate of the previous royal decree and in that of the latter, we are late. This directive had to be transposed already, this royal decree had to be in place since May last year; in fact the Government has already received the letter of emplacement, which is one of the factors why the processing of this decree was urgent. I believe that the Government is simply fulfilling its obligation. Emergencies can sometimes make room for improvement. That is why, during these days of talks, it has been shown, above all by the ministry, that there is all the will to reach the necessary consensus on a subject as important as this. Cybersecurity and the decree itself are topics with very technical content, but I would like to ask your attention today, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because it is not a far-off issue, nor much less, and I believe that we, as legislators, are given a huge responsibility. Taking crucial steps in security is crucial for businesses and the economic development of the digital single market and for citizens; and we are late. I do not think that we are going to be late as a country, because it is true that we have a system of mature governance, even ahead of the directive itself on some issues, but digitally, with the network, with cybersecurity, we always have to go ahead, we always have to be up to date. I therefore believe that it is good news that the Spanish Government has given urgency to this decree and that this President has given it, as well as the work that is being done in parallel, for example, with the updating of the National Cybersecurity Strategy itself. For bringing this subject closer to us, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the health sector. In previous years we have seen dramatic situations not far from here, in countries of the European Union, which have directly affected hospital paralysis, resulting in even fatal casualties. We're talking of course about the banking administration. Only with a reliable system are countries able to develop not only their banking system, but also ensure the same security in drinking water supplies or electricity supplies. Thanks to this decree, to the measures of the Government and also to the consensus that we aspire to achieve in the process as a bill, we must be far less vulnerable to any attack. For me one of the good news is the extension of the scope - because so far the critical infrastructures were very defined - of acting to the providers of digital services, that is, to speak in silver, the cloud, the search engines, the online markets. This is an essential step, because they are the present and represent a great future, and because ultimately only with greater cybersecurity will we be able to guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens in the network. We speak from the rights to privacy to everything that has to do with data protection, something that the Socialist Party has always guaranteed and capitalized on, and in what we have been pioneers when it comes to governing, as we are going to be again now. In addition, in parallel, we must continue to work from public policies in education and awareness-raising. I often have the feeling that we are very sensitive to physical security, but we are not so sensitive to digital security; we close our houses, alarm ads increase, but emails, passwords and everything that has to do with boys and girls have to be a priority in our policies as well. In short, I want to focus on two aspects that seem to me to be key on these issues, one of them is the proactivity that this Government has had - and it is demonstrating it - and the other is the consensus. It should be remembered that it was Law 8/2011 that put us at the forefront in this matter. Then we got this Critical Infrastructure Protection Act approved by a large majority. On a country such as this - which also transcends borders, because it is not only country, but it is global, but it is important to our country - we must all make an effort to achieve that consensus throughout the parliamentary process, much greater than we are going to achieve today. In this regard, we have had important moments in this country, such as when the Inteco Institute was created, in the times of the socialist government, or when it became the Incibe, a good reference centre at the global level. I insist that for us it is very important what this decree represents in terms of European coordination, so we have to make that effort to ensure that it is also guaranteed in our country, in the form of our state; this is what financial, electrical and telecommunications systems require. We are going to put all our interest in achieving this, as we did with the General Telecommunications Act, which seems to me to be a good example of how, in technical matters that can have a great impact on citizens and their rights - even if they are not so conscious in the day to day - politicians have to be able to achieve these great country consensuss. Obviously the world is becoming more digital every day, but it cannot be a world without rules, because then there are no rights. It is true that the minister was saying that more and more cyberattacks are being received in this country - they have multiplied by ten in very few years - but it must also be stressed that we are a country with very high capacities, the ninth in the European Union and the nineteenth in the world, and although we receive so many cyberattacks - the third in the European Union - we are in a good situation. Surely what the royal decree means is going to put us in a much better position. The single contact point, the response teams, is final. And with regard to sanctions, Mr Sixto, for what I have been able to document, I believe that they are minors if we follow the comparative law. In any case, the most important thing - and I conclude with this - is that in this global and global challenge we have to work together. We do not support the Socialist Group in reducing or compartmentalizing a national security issue with which we play so much, but we are prepared that with the opportunity given to us by the debate, the processing as a bill, we will deepen to give the key, see, review and guarantee the coordination mechanisms that must take place within the State so that those great objectives of the directive and the royal decree go down and make them effective, as our businesses and citizens deserve. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs González. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Aegean has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I would like to point out an aspect that has developed during the debate, and that is that in the library of Congress we can find speeches by Sagasta, Castelar and other illustrious speakers and Members, and in a few years' time, when future generations come to consult this debate - because it is a debate that will generate the cornerstone on which our country's cybersecurity is going to be built in the future - you will see how the nationalists said that cybersecurity was a thing for the autonomous communities, and you will see how it has gone down the level of political debate and above all the level of perception that some people have about cybersecurity, because today's debate has evoked moments past me, when we suffer, for example, from the WannaCry virus, and I imagine those gentlemen who have come up to the gallery today thinking that the WannaCry will not affect them because it does not speak Catalan or does not speak Basque, in the end, with exclusive issues, with questions to separate. [[rumors]] When we are talking about a directive which is precisely what we want to do in the globalised world, we see how there are some who are small, we do not know whether because today they are trying to remember what happened precisely as today, of infamous memory. [[Applauds]] This directive is being brought by the Government, and from our point of view the use of the Royal Decree route to approve this regulation is a mistake. We have to tell the Government that we are going to support this initiative, but from our point of view it is a mistake, for three fundamental reasons. Firstly, because it had consensus among the groups. We believe that it is important to adopt this directive, but it could have been agreed to proceed with the emergency procedure within one month. It is also contrary to the creation of a genuine national security state policy, and that is why we are asking that it be treated as a bill, and I think - most importantly - that it is a missed opportunity to generate, through the public debate in Congress, as we are having today, a genuine culture of cybersecurity in Spanish society, and the culture of cybersecurity is something fundamental, it is an essential pillar in national security. Kevin Mitnick said, that - and this is the second time I have quoted him in this Parliament - he is one of the most recognized hackers in history, that organizations, including governments, spend millions of euros on firewalls, firewalls, security devices, but that is to throw the money if none of these measures cover the weakest link in the security chain, which is people, people who use and manage systems. That is why it is more necessary than ever that this law should also recognize these cybersecurity issues when it is being dealt with as a draft law. This royal decree-law responds in its entirety to the text, to the draft of the preliminary draft prepared by the previous Government, with which we agree on its content. And even if it is for once, here I do have to ask the President of the Government who could have cited the author of the decree, the information and the preliminary draft that is presented here. [[Applauds]] The Government must clear up the unknowns that the rule does not clarify, such as the system of accreditations and audits in the field of cybersecurity, on which the current rule is silent, we will have to talk about it in the future. The development and immediate implementation of a unified reporting and incident platform is essential to prevent companies from having to go to multiple windows in order to comply with the various legislation already in force on incident reporting. A perfect opportunity has also been missed to define the concrete profiles of such important public-private collaboration in this area, and perhaps one of these forms of cooperation could have been to establish in this law a status, a status that we have already proposed in the past, for example as a cybersecurity collaborator, that allows us to use the talent that the private sector has in this matter, through voluntary contributions of knowledge that make recognized professionals of the sector, in collaboration with the State Security Forces and the Armed Forces, because there are many people in this country, very much, wishing to collaborate with our Government, wishing to collaborate with Spain, that they are professionals of recognized prestige, and all that talent we need to organize and channel in favor of the defense of our digital borders. Digital society will only be able to develop in its entirety and offer humanity its full transformative potential if we first manage to organize the not-so-positive aspects of digital disruption, and that is why the most advanced states are already regulating, are already organizing everything related to cyberspace. We can't stay behind in this revolution. The digital economy is a fact. Spain is not today - and I think it has to be an objective if we treat this royal decree as a bill - among the ten most secure cyber countries in the world, surpassing us Estonia, Georgia, Canada, and in 2017 Spain recorded more than 120,000 cybersecurity incidents. So as a famous painter used to say: fishermen know that the sea is dangerous and the storm is terrible. They have never found in these dangers reason enough to remain on earth. If we launch ourselves into the sea of cyberspace, if our companies are increasingly connected, if we are using the Internet of Things, big data, artificial intelligence, it is necessary that we, although legislation will always go behind what society demands, put the pillars in order to ensure that all that journey that our companies and our citizens are going to undertake is as safe as possible. I will conclude by saying that the Government has to resolve, and in this case also the groups if it is treated as a bill, we will have to resolve the figure of the notifier, which in the actual decree does not appear delimited enough, and we have to do so with great care in order not to return to that Orwelian metaphor that we all have in mind, and we must carefully address the normative development of this concept. Because there is an element in security - and with this I conclude - that is intangible, that is determined by the action of the public authorities, and it is trust; the confidence not to see the network turned into a shooting of accusations, false alarms, false news, that have so much benefited some during a recent process of insurrection of all known. The confidence to know that the rights that assist us on the street are not suspended on the network, but are a reflection of what happens on the street; the confidence to know that they are protected without being monitored or monitored. Because the time we have to live - and I finish, Mr President - our time makes that phrase of the Viennese thinker more current than ever: we have to make plans for freedom and not just for security, for the only reason that only freedom can make security safe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u41	We shall now turn to the agenda item on the motions for resolutions submitted in connection with the debate on the report on the state, operation and activities of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the courts and tribunals for the year 2016. 153 motions for resolutions have been tabled by all parliamentary groups. The parliamentary groups may act in a minor-to-major order with a maximum time of five minutes to defend the proposals and amendments tabled, as well as to establish a position on those of the remaining parliamentary groups. In defence of the proposals put forward, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 March this year our country experienced mobilizations which showed that the female half of the population has become fully aware of their real situation of inequality and has a determined will to change this state of affairs. [[Rumors]] For this reason, the reactions that were subsequently seen on the street to the judgment handed down at the trial of La Manada responded to the need to express the disagreement with a judicial system that does not seem very procliv... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u43	Wait a minute, Mr. Bataller. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u44	He said that the reactions we saw on the street to the judgment handed down at the trial in La Manada responded to the need to express disagreement with a judicial system that is not very likely to include cross-cutting gender approaches in its assessment of reality, and who does not understand this is that he does not understand the society in which he lives. I say this as a simple observation of what was seen, not as a criticism of a court decision. Unfortunately in this year, as in the past of the current legislature, we have seen the same display of social disconnection by the judiciary in its memory, whose president had no packaging during his presentation to the Commission of Justice to be indifferent to the evidence that women continue to be discriminated against professionally in the judiciary, as well as to deny us other injuring evidence, such as that effective respect for the co-official languages suffers greatly when entering a court. All the groups - and I stress all - have presented proposals that with greater or lesser intensity aim to correct that image of detachment shown by the General Council of the Judiciary with respect to the diverse and plural society that we make up; a society that also asks explanations, calls for responsibility and interactivity to those who make decisions that also affect the people who make up the Judiciary. We will soon have to consider the renewal of this general council. Compromís supports that the election of its members resides in the parliamentary seat, which would be a historic advance in the face of some requests for a return to corporatism that we must discard because it is we, not the judges, who embody national sovereignty and therefore we must choose a governing body of justice composed of people who believe that they will defend the general interests and not the particular interests of a profession, however respectable they may be. And in order to silence the criticisms that have always been made of the councils that have taken place to this day, which have been understood as an emanation of bipartisanism, in December we will have an opportunity to demonstrate whether we in this Parliament really have also assumed the need to represent plurality in its entirety. Otherwise, bad service will be done to the citizenry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We announce from the rostrum that we are going to withdraw all our amendments to the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary and we are going to abstain from voting because, after what we have known this morning through the digital newspapers, what the General Council of the Judiciary deserves is an amendment to the whole. And why? Perhaps some of your ladies do not know what has been published. Today, in the official forum of the judges of the General Council of the Judiciary, some emails have been published in which very serious insults, infamous accusations, insults, even some manifestations that could constitute a hate crime towards what we and many people represent in Catalonia, which is the legitimate right to fight for the independence of our country. Can you imagine that in a corporate forum of doctors there would be anti-ethical proclamations or eugenic or racist proclamations? Where would that corporation be? For that has happened today in the corporate forum of the judges of the General Council of the Judiciary. Therefore, today we understand that it has been accredited that prisoners are political, even for the judiciary, that they will not have a fair trial, because it has been highly accredited that Spanish justice is not at the service of the rule of law but is at the service of the unity of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. In defence of the proposals put forward by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u48	Thank you very much, President. We group our motions for resolutions on several axes in those areas that we consider most relevant for the better functioning, quality and adequacy of the so-called territorial constitution. Starting with the same general council and as long as the organic law regulating it is not amended, currently in the process and on which the Basque Parliamentary Group has proposed some amendments, we propose in a transitional way that the plenary has the power to deal with any matter in which the council is competent and that its members rotate annually by the permanent commission. Also, and with regard to the General Council, we believe that it should draw up and forward to this House its opinion on the shortcomings and improvements to be made in justice and judicial activity, as well as a vision of the judicial career in the twenty-first century. Without prejudice to seeking the advice of the council on the above-mentioned aspects, this Basque Parliamentary Group also makes concrete proposals on the policies of the general council concerning promotion and promotion in the career, with particular reference to the policies of appointment of senior judicial officials of the provincial hearings, higher courts, the National High Court and the Supreme Court, in all cases claiming prior objective criteria in the baremation and selection and greater gender equality in access to these places. With regard to career performance, we believe that the Council has for many years already had the task of drawing up a standard on the workloads of judges and judges so necessary in relation to health and prevention of occupational risks, as well as for the determination of the judicial plant and for the new calls for places of access to the career, not only to meet natural growth but also in anticipation of future retirements. The excessive length of proceedings from the oral hearing, the high number of unexecuted court decisions, the leaks in proceedings that affect both the rights of the parties and the principles of the proceedings, have also merited our attention in these proposals, as well as further progress in promoting alternative proceedings to a contentious justice that also has a better degree of enforcement in the mediated solution than in the one imposed by traditional justice. In the section on justice for persons linked to the improvement of the judicial response, our focus has been on combating gender-based violence and the protection of women and their children, on historical memory and crimes against humanity, on hate crimes, on the problem of foreigners, with particular reference to asylum-seekers and asylum-seekers, minors and protection mechanisms resulting from the launching of family units with serious protection needs. Finally, as I pointed out at the beginning and with regard to a better alignment of the Administration of Justice with our reality of the autonomous State, with the autonomous structure of the State, we focus on the so-called creation of the autonomous Justice Councils with regard to the judicial bodies of their respective territories, with deconcentrated functions of the General Council. One more year we are calling for measures to give effect to the principle of full jurisdiction of the higher courts of justice, without prejudice to the nomophylactic role of the Supreme Court. With regard to staff in the service of the Administration of Justice, a number of measures are set out for the modification of the current national nature of the bodies in the service of the Administration of Justice, so that the autonomous communities with competence in this field can fully assume their organisation, without prejudice to the maintenance of their mobility and other notes characteristic of their function. The Judicial Office, the computer system or digital justice have also received our attention in several of the proposals. I have to say that a number of amendments have been tabled by the Group of the European People's Party to some of our proposals and I would like to inform the House that we have accepted them. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. In defence of the proposals and amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u50	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Catalans are a germ, a virus, Nazis, coups and criminals and we deserve to be treated like Tejero in prison. These are some of the comments of judges of the Spanish judiciary. These are the ones that guarantee judicial impartiality, the right to a fair trial and a fair trial with all guarantees. These are the ones who have imprisoned our leaders and those who want to condemn our comrades and friends just because they are Catalans and independentists and carry out the democratic mandate that emerged from the ballot box, that is, from the Catalan people. These leaked mails prove and confirm the existence of an ideological and political persecution typical of a fascist regime in which police cover-up and judicial complicity are on the order of the day. [[Applauds]] On the contrary, a judge is punished and charged for saying the opposite, for saying that the security forces are uniformed terrorists when they came to beat us up on 1 October. Today it is up to us to discuss and defend a number of motions for resolutions submitted to the Memoranda of the General Council of the Judiciary. From our parliamentary group we have presented a total of fourteen that most of them should already know about the previous years. In the first of these, we refer to such important aspects as once and for all to give effect to the right of citizens of the territories with their own language other than Spanish to relate to the Administration of Justice. It is inconceivable that in the 21st century all languages other than Spanish will still be attacked and discriminated against. When they stop seeing the other languages as an enemy and abandon Spanish linguistic supremacy, it will be the day when they understand the need and the duty to ensure their use in all areas and before public administrations. [[Applauds]] Another issue of vital importance is parity, not only in the judicial career but especially in the high offices of the various organs that make up it. As we have reported on many occasions, the presence of women in senior management is minimal, despite the predominantly female tendency to enter the judicial career. This is the photo of the inauguration of the judicial year 2018; not one woman, not one woman. [[shows a photo]] This is not the reflection of society, this is not the normality of society. [[Applauds]] We urge the General Council of the Judiciary to be more transparent and independent in appointing senior officials. It cannot be that what is happening, the bribery of Mr. Llarena's wife in the placement of the daughter of the president of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, Sofia Marchena. It cannot be that the member of the Standing Committee who cast a particular vote against the amparo to Judge Llarena is harassed. Transparency must govern all acts of the Administration and even more so the government of the judges responsible for controlling others. A final set of proposals is aimed at strengthening the training, which is lacking, in the defence and protection of human and civil rights and freedoms, both individual and collective, in order to ensure their effective protection against the serious human, civil and political rights violations perpetrated by Spanish Justice systematically against politicians, artists and representatives of Catalan civil society. The need to reshape and deepen the teaching, dissemination and defence of human rights has been highlighted. We believe that it is even more important after the publication of corporate emails of judges and magistrates. We therefore need more judicial independence and demand the freedom of our political prisoners and prisoners, because this autumn we will not have a fair trial and therefore there will not be a fair sentence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. In defence of the proposals put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u52	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. To debate with almost two years of delay the motions for resolutions in memory of the 2016 General Council of the Judiciary is a symptom that justice is not going as fast as it should. It is more worrying to note, year after year, that the problems noted in the report are repeated, as are the motions for resolutions tabled by the groups. In fact, if we compare this year's motions for resolutions with the motions for resolutions submitted to the 2015 memory, they would not pass an anti-plagiarism test, even with the Moncloa settings. [[Applauds]] But it is also important to take stock, because the presentation of this memoir and the proposals arising from it coincide with the closure of the management cycle of this council, which is close to being renewed. His chairman, Mr Lesmes, when he presented the report, said that our justice system had not experienced any significant improvements and that its indicators remained stable. These words sounded like a declaration of impotence to us, even though the council is well aware of the problems of justice, as our spokesman, Mr Prendes, reminded us. What's wrong, then? It is simple, in the end it lacks political will to implement the changes and improvements that all the collectives involved in our administration of justice are demanding of us. But today we have come to talk about these motions for resolutions, these recommendations or requests that we bring to our Council in the area of its competence, which are not very few. The Council has considerable and significant powers. It has organizational powers, for example, to solve the failure of specialized courts on ground clauses, whose saturation keeps the right to recover unduly paid by thousands and thousands of families. It has the competence to check the need and to urge the creation of new judicial bodies, to resolve the delay and problems posed by the new or, rather, the old Judicial Office in its implementation, or to unify the rules of registration and distribution in the decanates of the courts. It has competence in the specialized and continuous training of our judges and magistrates so that they can provide a more effective response in the matter of families or minors, such as in cases of school harassment or bullying, in accessibility and care for persons with disabilities, in personalized support and care for victims of violent crimes and, of course, in order to comply with the State Covenant against Gender Violence, and it has competence to facilitate and promote family reconciliation, not only of workers in the Administration of Justice but of the various professionals who are related to it. In addition, it has the power to support and give protection to judges and prosecutors destined in Catalonia in the face of the pressures and attacks that continue to suffer from defending the rule of law and the constitutional order, unacceptable pressures that this House condemned by a large majority just two days ago on the proposal of Citizens. These and other proposals have been raised by the Citizens' Group to the consideration of this House for referral to the Council if they are approved. I have a parenthesis to say that we are going to accept only the amendments that the People's Parliamentary Group has made to our proposals Nos 42 and 45. It will be the new council that will have to respond or comply with these proposals, the council that comes out of the imminent process of renewal, a renewal that will not be made so that it is the judges who choose their representatives on their governing body, as repeatedly requested by the Greek report, the group of States against corruption, as also requested by the judges and magistrates themselves and the whole society as a whole that calls for a more independent justice. So when you publish that embarrassing picture of that table surrounded by twenty chairs, colored chairs - and be sure that the photo will be published - there will be a majority of blue chairs and in front of it there will be many red chairs, but this time there will also be purple chairs - we don't know yet how many - and even a green chair. [[Applauds]] What I can assure you is that there's not going to be any orange chairs because we're not going to be in that dumpster. [[Applauds]] Since the spokespersons of the PDeCAT and Esquerra Republicana have commented on the present - forgetting, by the way, that they also participated in that cambalache and forgetting, by the way, that the voice of Convergence was stopped on the way to Andorra with a suitcase full of thousands and thousands of euros - I will also comment on the present. [[applause]] Today's headlines: Councilman Maragall says Minister Batet promised to order the prosecution to change its stance on the 1-O. [[Applauds]] We hope that the Government will reject this news as soon as possible or, in the worst case scenario, correct it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. In defence of the proposals put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Last June 20, Mr Lesmes appeared in this House to report on the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary of 2016. Three are, in our view, the main vectors for analysing the situation of the Administration of Justice: judicial independence, the Administration of Justice as a quality public service and the role of the Administration of Justice as a fundamental institution for the protection of fundamental rights. Well, despite Mr Lesmes' triumphalist presentation, in our view the situation of justice in Spain in these three vectors can be described as disastrous. One of the main causes of this situation is Mr Lesmes himself. Since he took office in 2013 to take over the role of the General Council of the Judiciary, following the disastrous reform of Mr Gallardón's Organic Law of the Judiciary, whose proposal for a derogation we have presented in this House, the situation of justice in Spain has only deteriorated. The system of election and functioning of the General Council of the Judiciary is undoubtedly perfectable, in that line we are. Since the debate on the election model for the members of the General Council of the Judiciary is important, we believe that the most important thing is that there should be merit in the capacity, honesty and independence of its members. In this aspiration and not in other forms, Mr. Citizen Representative, we are. Well, the last council was designed in its regulation and composition by the law of Mr Gallardón to loyally serve partisan interests with evidence and boldness in all its most important decisions. [[Applauds]] The attribution of an exorbitant power in the hands of Mr Lesmes, who exercises autocratically and presidentially, together with a permanent commission selected by him, together with a loyal and submissive composition of it, have made it possible for the General Council of the Judiciary to allow scandalous resolutions by means of the trichinella of which Mr Lesmes warned us of the carrot for the loyal and the stick for the insumisos. For example, the preferential treatment given to the daughter of Mr. President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Marchena, with the collaboration of Mrs. Espinosa, who is now promoted in the General Council of the Judiciary to grant her a position of prosecutor that did not exist, contrary to the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the precedents. For example, Mr Llarena, the husband of the previous one, was protected when the ten-day deadline for his application was manifestly not met. And now chasing and trying to get rid of the only vocalist who dared to make it manifest through the Council's trichinets. Be aware of how Mr. Lesmes and his acolytes will try to avenge Mrs. Saez on the coming dates. We're gonna be on hold. [[Applauds]] For example, the dubious appointment of Mr Llarena or others like Mrs Lamela to the Supreme Court, passing in total darkness and lack of transparency and motivation ahead of other well-known and better qualified candidates. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u55	Wait a minute, Mrs. Elizo. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. If you have to hold essential talks, I ask you to do so outside the Chamber. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u56	Thank you. There is a clear interest in controlling the composition of the courts, mainly the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court and the National Court, especially in view of the many corruption trials that will continue to arrive. Although the obvious claim to control the Chamber of the Litigation, that is, the one that resolves the demand of citizens against the Administration, must also be ignored. In this short space of time, there are innumerable irregularities in the election of judicial posts and intolerable interference in the formation of courts, for example, in the Appeals Chamber of the National Court, where the ineffable and hyper-recusal Mr López has been succeeded. [[Applauds]] But all together they report a situation of alarm for judicial independence in Spain: nothing less than two thirds of the judges in Spain believe that they do not rise in the judicial career by merit and capacity, but by relationship and closeness with the judicial dome. According to the report published by the European Commission in 2017, Spain is in line with the perception of the citizenry of judicial independence, with 58% of respondents who consider it bad or very bad. Also in the arbitrary use of the disciplinary power of the General Council of the Judiciary, with exorbitant powers that completely controls its president and exercises against enemies and with favor towards friends. Thus, Lesmes' efforts - which we hope will prove to be empty - to prevent the arrival of Vicky Rosell or José Ricardo de Prada to the General Council of the Judiciary, selective protections that Mr Lesmes denies to some and grants to others with total arbitrariness. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] We trust that on December 5th, the eve of the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution, this model of council and this council will be the black history of this country, that a new stage can be started with a plural and independent General Council of the Judiciary, formed by full and independent jurists, without favors to return, without first and second vowels, with a full sovereign. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, on that path you will find us, just as you found us to throw out the People's Party of the Government. If you insist on compositions to achieve a comfortable advice for bipartisanism, you will find us in front of you. At the moment, sadly, there is not a single attempt or hint that things are going to be different. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u57	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals and amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this annual debate on the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary is an excellent opportunity to identify the weaknesses of our justice. It is a great opportunity to check the House's consensus on its needs, increase staffing, reverse delays, promote the increased presence of judges and magistrates in judicial appointments and promotions, preserve the rights of victims, ensure safe and efficient digitization, improve collaboration with autonomous administrations and, of course, strengthen the training of our judges to achieve, among others, the objectives of the State Pact against Gender Violence. But, ladies and gentlemen, the resolutions proposed also illustrate to us the attitude of some parliamentary groups, and today we want to draw attention to two proposals from the People's Party. These are two proposals that, far from preserving judicial independence, seek to coerce it, gag and frighten our judges; two proposals so embarrassing and embarrassing that even the People's Group itself has had to amend itself. See. The first, proposed by the People's Group that the Legislative Power, this House, insists the General Council of the Judiciary to - I am opening quotes -'make a careful follow-up of the interventions of judges and magistrates in the media'. And even worse, he gives the name and surname of Judge De Prada. A new gag, this time for the judges. Second proposal of the People's Group, more obscure if it is possible, to urge the General Council of the Judiciary - I open quotes - 'to investigate the real and genuine reasons why Judge De la Mata has extended the investigation on the papers of Barcenas, on Box B of the People's Party'. Another appointed judge with first and last names. Who's next? Maybe Judge Carmen Rodriguez-Medel? And to top these deviations the People's Group adds that this judicial decision would be provoked by the statements of Judge De Prada seeking to influence - I open quotes - 'a probable call for general elections in our country', which only exists in the dreams of the People's Group and the Citizens' Group. Does the People's Party thus understand the judicial independence guaranteed by our Constitution? Does this translate into the defence of the Constitution with which their mouths are filled daily? Do you want the legislature and the governing body of judges to interfere in the exercise of the jurisdictional function? Do they intend to curtail the fundamental rights of judges and magistrates as citizens, beyond those already restricted and limited by the Constitution and the Organic Law of the Judiciary? Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it is clear what you claim, that you do not ignore the fact that our judicial system has plenty of resources to guarantee the pillars of the rule of law, but the People's Party does not seek that: you want to intimidate judges and magistrates who dare to control their abuses and especially those who have flagged the fight against corruption and the illegal financing of the People's Party. You want to prevent other judges from following the same path and avoid being pointed out by you. I repeat, the next one will be Judge Rodriguez-Medel? You want judges submissive and gagged. We, the rest, want them free and independent. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, that you are bleeding from the wound. They still think that a court ruling and a couple of independent judges deprived them of power, and they're wrong. The Spanish people deprived them of power through their representatives, the Congress of Deputies, Members of Parliament and us, because no one could bear the stench that involved the degradation you caused in our institutions. I'm done, President. It is clear that you have not yet returned. They're gonna need a lot more than a hundred days. Fortunately, Spain today already has a Government committed to the dignity of its institutions. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u59	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals and amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Barrionuevo Gener has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before giving an account of the fourteen motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in memory of the 2016 General Council of the Judiciary, allow me to thank you for the work that has been done in the last five years by your President, Mr Carlos Lesmes, and the twenty members who make up it and who now have to renew it. I would also like to thank the more than 5,500 judges and magistrates throughout the country for their daily work. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always maintained that justice is the last safeguard in the defence of the rights and freedoms of citizens and of our rule of law. That is why I want to show my support to Judge Pablo Llarena for his work in defending our Constitution and democracy. [[Applauds]] The fourteen proposals put forward by my group can be divided into three large groups. The first of these includes proposals for the functioning of justice. Among them is the proposal we have put forward urging the General Council of the Judiciary to conclude the preparation of the report on workloads that is being prepared. Another proposal calls for further work on the development of the labour risk plan, to reduce litigation in both civil and labour law, and for further work on the awareness of judges and magistrates to use new technologies. In relation to the second of the blocks, putting justice at the service of people, I would like to congratulate the General Council of the Judiciary for the good acceptance that has had its portal of transparency, baptized with the name of José Luis Terrero Chacón. The number of writings of complaints, complaints and suggestions has increased by 31 per cent, with 10770 writings. My group therefore urges the General Council of the Judiciary to respond effectively to such complaints, complaints and suggestions. Another of the proposals put forward by my group is that intra-judicial mediation should continue to be promoted and promoted as a conflict resolution mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that in the People's Party we firmly believe in mediation and our parliamentary work demonstrates this. [[Rumors]] As far as the ground clauses are concerned, we urge the General Council of the Judiciary to take the necessary measures within its competence to remedy the delay in the mass filing of such claims, which makes the effective judicial protection of citizens frustrated by the excessive workload of the fifty-five courts intended for this purpose. In another proposal, the People's Parliamentary Group urges the General Council of the Judiciary to tackle and investigate all the leaks that occur, not only in the summaries and rulings of the National Court, but especially in the data on the filiation of victims of gender-based violence or crimes that violate sexual freedom, because we believe that they would be double victimization. [[Rumors]] The third and last of the blocs is the one referring to the demand for justice as a fundamental part of the rule of law. In relation to this third block we have been seeing that the Justice to Data report reflects that in the next ten years there will be a massive retirement of much of the judicial career. That is why we urge the government of the judges to carry out a study that reflects the future places that they will have to convoke; we believe that the judges do not form overnight and that it is a topic that we should not leave the improvisation. [[Rumors]] We also bet on the training of our judges, we propose to extend the training for sensitivity in matters as important as trafficking in human beings, gender-based violence or international abduction of minors. And, of course, we will be voting in favour of the proposals put forward by other groups concerning training in hate crimes, asylum and asylum, which are of great concern to us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the often mistaken perception that citizens have about the independence of justice. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled two proposals to alleviate this effect. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u61	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u62	On the one hand, we believe that the presence as political Tertullians of active judges and magistrates in relation to procedures in which they have acted as instructors at an oral stage may compromise the right of defence of citizens. On the other hand, we believe that in order to strengthen the perception of judicial independence, the rules and criteria applicable to judges and judges who decide to hold political office in a Government of the nation or in a Government of the various public administrations should be clearly and precisely regulated when they return to their judicial activity. I mean, you have to regulate the rotating doors. [[The Rumors Continue]] If the PSOE asks, in its proposal 121, for the regulation of the so-called rotating doors between the exercise of the legal profession and the judiciary; if the Citizen Group asks for the regulation of the compatibility criteria of judges and magistrates who give training courses and conferences in entities that frequently fight, because they consider that they question the impartiality of these and the image of the independence of the members of their judicial career, imagine the case of a senator, a deputy or a minister of the Interior, of Defence or of Justice who is part of a room of the penal or the contentious-administrative and that it is up to him to solve cases such as that of the EREs or the training courses in Andalusia, where there are accused two presidents of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt about professionalism, but I want to tell you something that is said in my land: Caesar, in addition to being a professional, must seem so. And it's not an ethical issue, it's also an ethical issue, it's about aesthetics and trust. [[Rumors]] Finally, I mean...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u63	It has to end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u64	...to Mr. Artemi that I don't think all the proposals have been read out, because he will know that number 109 had been withdrawn. For lack of time I will only point out - and I finish, Madam President - that we are going to vote against the proposals 71 and 77 of the PDECAT, considering that in Spain there are no Catalan political representatives in exile, but fugitives from justice, and neither are there political prisoners, but political prisoners. And, of course, we will vote against the abolition of the National Court. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u65	Thank you very much. They shall be put to the vote in a few minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u66	We begin with the votes. First, we will vote on Royal Decree-Law 11/2018 of 31 August on the transposition of directives on the protection of pension commitments to workers, the prevention of money laundering and requirements for the entry and residence of third-country nationals and amending Law 39/2015 of 1 October on the common administrative procedure of public administrations. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 5 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 326 plus 5 telematics votes, 331; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u67	It's validated. - PROCEEDINGS AS DRAFT LAW BY THE PROCEDURE FOR THE EMERGENCY OF THE DECRETO-LEY DECRETO-LEY 11/2018, OF 31 AUGUST, FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF DIRECTIVES ON THE PROTECTION OF PENSION COMMITMENTS WITH WORKERS, PREVENTION OF THE BLANKING OF CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR THE Entry AND RESIDENCE OF NATIONALS OF THIRD COUNTRIES AND AMENDING ACT 39/2015, OF 1 OCTOBER, OF THE COMMON ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS. [[File number 130/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u68	The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 5 telematics votes, 340; 330 plus 5 telematics votes, 335; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u69	It will therefore be dealt with by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 12/2018, OF 7 SEPTEMBER, OF SECURITY OF NETWORKS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS. [[File number 130/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u70	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the Royal Decree-Law of 7 September on the security of networks and information systems. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 5 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 314 plus 5 telematics votes, 319; against, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u71	It's validated. - TREATMENT AS DRAFT LAW BY THE PROCEDURE FOR THE EMERGENCY OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 12/2018, OF 7 SEPTEMBER, FOR SECURITY OF NETWORKS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS. [[File number 130/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u72	The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 5 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 335 plus 5 telematics votes, 340.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u73	It will therefore be dealt with by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u74	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled on the occasion of the debate on the report on the state, operation and activities of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the courts and tribunals for the year 2016. I announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the vote is long. Motions for resolutions tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. We voted, first of all, on proposal 2. The vote will begin. [[Pausa.-Various Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Joint Group, Party Democrata PDeCAT, leave the Chamber]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 155 against, 1 abstention, 172.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u75	It's approved. Proposal 3 from the same group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 71 against, 1 abstentions, 255.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u76	It's approved. Proposal 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 182 abstentions, 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u77	It's approved. We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on proposal 12, which is voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 319 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u78	It's approved. Proposal 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 155 against, 134 abstentions, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u79	It's approved. Proposal 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 72 against, 217 abstentions, 40.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u80	It's rejected. Proposal 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 237 against, 81 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u81	It's approved. Proposals 28 and 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 156 against, 164 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u82	They're rejected. Proposals 29 and 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 72 against, 248 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u83	They're rejected. Proposals 32 and 33. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 10 against, 248 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u84	They're rejected. Rest of the proposals of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 320 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u85	It was adopted. Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the motions for resolutions tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Firstly, we are going to vote on proposal 35, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 249 against, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u86	It's approved. Proposal 36, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 97 against, 94 abstentions, 139.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u87	It's approved. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Proposals 38 and 43. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 185 against, 143 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u88	They're approved. Proposal 42, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 3 of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 232 against, 93 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u89	It's approved. Proposal 45, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 237 against 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u90	It's approved. Proposal 46. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 96 against, 10 abstentions, 224.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u91	It's approved. Proposal 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 236 against, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u92	It's approved. Proposal 50. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 236 against, 9 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u93	It's approved. Proposal 52. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 186 against 9 abstentions 135.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u94	It's approved. The rest of the proposals of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 319 against, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u95	They're approved. Motions for resolutions tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. Firstly, we voted on proposal 54. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 79 against, 1 abstention, 250.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u96	It's approved. Proposal 55, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 14 of the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 165 against, 31 abstentions, 134.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u97	It's approved. Proposal 56 from the same group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 163 against, 1 abstention, 166.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u98	It's approved. Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. We are voting, first of all, on proposal 57, which is being voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 80 against, 250.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u99	It's rejected. Proposal 58, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 14 against, 249 abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u100	It's rejected. Proposal 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 76 against, 250 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u101	It's rejected. We now vote on proposals 60, 64, 67 and 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 327 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u102	They're approved. Proposal 61. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 164 against, 135 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u103	It's approved. Proposal 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 246 against, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u104	It's approved. Proposal 63, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment 17 of the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 195 against 135.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u105	It's approved. Proposal 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 76 against, 248 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u106	It's rejected. Proposal 66, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 80 against, 249.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u107	It's rejected. Proposal 68, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 109 abstentions, 220.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u108	It's approved. Proposal 69, which is also voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 215 against 85 abstentions 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u109	It's approved. The proposals of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, have been withdrawn. We therefore turn to the motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group. Firstly, proposal 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 291 against, 9 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u110	It's approved. Proposal 101. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 236 against, 92 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u111	It's approved. Proposal 108, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 12 of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 141 against, 159 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u112	It's rejected. Proposals 110 and 111. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 176 against, 69 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u113	They're approved. Proposal 112. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour 320 against 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u114	It's approved. Rest of the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 321 against, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u115	They're approved. Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Group. Firstly, we are going to vote on proposal 116. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 194 against, 134 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u116	It's approved. Proposal 119. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 300 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u117	It's approved. Proposal 123. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 193 abstentions, 136.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u118	It's approved. The rest of the Socialist Group's proposals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 327 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u119	They're approved. Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the motions for resolutions tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. We are voting, first of all, on proposal 130. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 215 against, 30 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u120	It's approved. Proposal 132. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour 194; 134 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u121	It's approved. Proposal 133, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment 13 of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 186 abstentions, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u122	It's approved. Proposal 135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 80 against, 163 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u123	It's rejected. Proposals 138, 143 and 149. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 245 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u124	They're approved. Proposal 140. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 110 against, 135 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u125	It's rejected. Proposals 142 and 146. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 164 against, 135 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u126	They're approved. Proposal 145. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 165 against, 2 abstentions, 163.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u127	It's approved. Proposal 148. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 82 against, 30 abstentions, 218.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u128	It's approved. Proposal 152. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 192 against, 134 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u129	It's approved. Proposal 153. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 79 against, 219 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u130	It's rejected. Rest of the proposals of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes cast; 330 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-20-CD180920.u131	They're approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was 12 and 20 minutes from noon.
