ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. He asked the President of the Government first of all about Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, how much longer are you going to follow your Government without taking action against the wage gap between men and women?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. We have - and will continue to do so - taken steps to reduce the wage gap and all gender gaps, which are many. The first, the most important, is work because it makes the difference between having a job and not having it. I want to say that there have been important results in recent times, all levels of employment of women have already been recovered from before the crisis and in December 2017 the largest number of Social Security affiliates in the history of Spain was registered. Be absolutely certain that we will continue to work to narrow this labour gap. We also have the entrepreneurship gap and we can also say that there are results. More than 100,000 women have increased the number of self-employed since the worst time of the crisis. The pension gap is also important; we have taken steps, including the establishment of a supplement of up to 15%, which already receives more than 300,000 women. We are fighting wage discrimination, which you know is prohibited and sanctioned by law. Finally, with regard to the wage gap, the Eurostat data for 2015 - the latest available data - tell us that the gap in Spain is 14.9, below the European average and of countries as important as Germany and France; the EPA data speak of 8.9, a 4 point reduction over the last five years and the OECD data are 11.5. Therefore, we will continue to work intensively as we have done throughout all these times - and I hope with your support - to achieve total equality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u6	Mr Rajoy, just a year ago now, on February 21, 2017, this House unanimously, with the support of your party, required the government to submit a bill on equal pay within six months. Of course, you have not presented anything. His motto is: let's not get involved in this, let's not get involved in the pay gap. The problem is that you do not get involved in anything; in anything that affects the citizens of this country. The issue of equality is not a matter of concern to you, they have no sensitivities, and with regard to inequalities between men and women they have none either, even you appealed the Equality Act in 2007 to the Constitutional Court. Look, you know what? What is not acceptable is that you have made-up data, because at the moment the wage gap between men and women in Spain, according to the INE, is 23%, because you have created working conditions that make two thirds of the work, part-time work, women. And in the meantime, you don't get involved. But look, since they are not involved, let the Socialist Party make proposals; we are going to make proposals, we are going to make proposals of law that we will present immediately to regulate equal pay, for equal work. And you know what, Mr. Rajoy? I'm asking you not to let go of those laws, not to let go of them anymore. You don't get into anything, you don't let it, but we can't consent to the situation where that wage gap between men and women is found. So we ask him: leave that motto. Since he does not do his Government, please do not make up the data; do not make the Labour Inspectorate look away, because you have a political responsibility and this Government is doing nothing to fight for equality between men and women. It's a lack of absolute sensitivity. Let the opposition, therefore, let the Socialist Party work by putting forward proposals for legislation in favour of equal pay and equal work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u7	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. He hasn't actually said anything. [[Applauds]] He says that I don't get involved, that I don't worry about anything, that I don't take action, that he deals with me and that they're going to make proposals. Let us hope that they will come forward soon because they have not yet tabled any proposals. What we have presented I have tried to summarize in the time I have available, as well as the results that have been achieved in recent times, and I think we are moving in the right direction to reach the goal of the greatest possible equality, and I have explained to you what results have been achieved in the various gender gaps. All this brings you carelessly, and it seems that even though we agree on our objectives - because we have even voted the same, as you recalled here in Congress - all you care about is whether I criticize the President of the Government because I have nothing better to do at this time of morning. That's not good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF Iglesias Turrion, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, can we in any way be allowed to make a statement to the President of the Government: have you been surprised by the fact that you are looking for the cost, which has been the secretary general of the Valencian Public Prosecutor, that the Public Prosecutor has been in a judicial position to finance himself with black money? [[File number 180/00504]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u10	Question also addressed to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú PodemosEn Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. M. Rajoy, have you been surprised that Ricardo Costa, who was Secretary General of the People's Party in Valencia, has said in court that the People's Party is financed by black money?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. I respect, and will always do, the way each one chooses to defend himself in court when accused, and I respect and will always respect judicial decisions. And I do so because I believe in the law, in the rule of law, in the right of all citizens to defend themselves and in the division of powers, and it would be good for you to join in assuming these principles as democratic as those I have just expressed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u14	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u15	I thank you for your reply and know that you are not surprised by what Mr Costa has said; it is logical that you should not be surprised. I propose an exercise in memory, Mr. M. Rajoy. Valencia, year 2007, you said the following - I quote literally -: These are my credentials, management at the City Council of Valencia, the Valencian Community, Xátiva, Castellón and Alicante. Indeed, you recognized that your credentials were Rita Barberá, Francisco Camps, Ricardo Costa, Carlos Fabra or Sonia Castedo, and you were right, your credentials were corruption, illegal financing and electoral fraud. In that very act of Valencia of infamous memory, you added - I quote again literally -: I want what has happened here to happen throughout Spain. That was a brilliant prophecy because it actually happened throughout Spain and is that his entire party is sitting on the bench of the accused as a legal person accused of corruption, and his name, M. Rajoy, appears on the papers of Barcenas as a recipient of black surrogates. On March 7, in exactly a month's time, Mr. Francisco Camps will go to a courthouse but will not do so as an accused but as a witness. You know why? Because the crimes have prescribed. Oh, my God! Mr. Ricardo Costa says the boss was Camps but the crimes have prescribed. It turns out that in Spain there are puppeteers, rapists and tweeters who are tried and convicted, but gentuza like Mr Camps continues to walk with his luxury car in Valencia, charging a public salary and with secretary and official car that Spanish citizens pay. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Rajoy, do not fight corruption; you have used the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior to protect corrupt people, and your ministers have been repudiated and still have the shame of occupying the seat in the blue bank. Yesterday you were ashamed to propose in several amendments that some offences do not prescribe, but did not say that you do not prescribe corruption offences. You know why? Because if corruption crimes didn't prescribe, some of you might end up in jail. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u16	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u17	Thank you very much for your kind intervention, Mr. Churches. He is interested in a topic that has occurred more than ten years ago, which is now in the courts, where people who are no longer in public life are immersed. You yourself! He has a perfect right to do politics as he sees fit. However, I would like to say that it would be good if you could give some idea because you are never interested in the issues that are worrying the Spaniards today. I welcome the fact that we are not talking here about economics or employment because I have to understand that that means that you approve of the economic policy that my Government is carrying out. About Catalonia I have not read any more things, I have simply not seen it very clear, it has not been able to defend national unity, neither national sovereignty nor the rule of law, and that is worrying. And as for the measures he has proposed to us in the matter of corruption we know only one: he appoints himself investigating judge, prosecutor, sentencing court... You have left Mr Torquemada very short, Mr Iglesias. [[Ms. Belarra Urteaga utters words that are not perceived]] In short, I think you have - I tell you frankly and you know that with a lot of affection - a certain confusion, and exaggerating and overacting will not get you out of it. So you're going to have to apply to change the criteria you usually use a little bit. Have a very good morning. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - of Mr Albert Rivera Diaz, of the CIO parliamentary group, which expresses to the President of the Government: Does the President consider that the use of the Fla in Cataluña during the separatist process has been correct? [[File number 180/00507]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u18	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u19	Thank you, President. President of the Government, the Autonomic Liquidity Fund was created by his Government precisely in 2012 to finance the autonomous communities that were in bankruptcy, including Catalonia where, as you know, 1 out of 3 euros of that fund goes to the Generalitat, which first broke the tripartite and then Mr Puigdemont. That is not the fault of the Catalans, but of their Governments, and it seems to me very good that the Government should allocate public money to pay for public services, officials and suppliers. But, said that, Mr Montoro was here in August and we asked him in this House - and we were more calm with his statements - will he be able to finance the process or on October 1st with public money from the liquidity fund? And Mr Montoro assured us in this House that we were very calm because he was not going to spend a cent of that money on the coup d'état, on October 1 or all together. Mr. Rajoy, reading these days what the investigating judge of the Court of Instruction number 13 of Barcelona has said. He claims that part or all of October was financed with the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, was financed with money from all the Spaniards. And the prosecution also said yesterday that it had told the judge the same thing, that there could be public money earmarked for October 1. And I, Mr Rajoy, as you are the government, and it is you who manages that money, I ask you: Is the judge or the prosecution right when they say that all or part of the money from October 1st has been paid with the Autonomous Liquidity Fund? What explanation can you give us to the statements made by the prosecutor or the judge of the court number 13 in Barcelona? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u20	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera, the FLA, along with the Provider Payment Plan and the Social Fund, has been an extraordinary operation from an economic point of view. They have been made available to the Autonomous Communities no less than EUR 240 billion, 64 billion for Catalonia. It has been a decisive factor in economic recovery, because, as you recalled, many public institutions could not access the capital market in the long term and without the FLA would not have been able to meet their obligations and would have broken. Therefore, FLA avoided bankruptcy and helped growth and employment. The FLA was mainly used to pay health spending - 65.7% -, to pay agreements with municipalities, to pay thousands of non-government providers and to maintain public services and many jobs; and not a single FLA euro was dedicated to the illegal referendum that was supposed to be held in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u22	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u23	Mr. Rajoy, I'd say I'd be more relaxed if I hadn't seen what the investigating judge of Barcelona's 13th Court said. It says that part or all of the money that was spent on October 1st was from the Autonomic Liquidity Fund. I'd be more relaxed if it wasn't for my opinion but for the prosecution to give that information to the court. Mr. Montoro said he didn't have a hard time. He recently acknowledged that perhaps there could be invoices that had been earmarked for that. I take your floor, Mr. Rajoy. You said it wasn't a penny. And I ask you, if the judge proves that only one cent of the FLA has been allocated, who will resign from his government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u24	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u25	Mr Rivera, the money from the FLA is not given to the Autonomous Communities, but is paid directly by the Government to suppliers and financial creditors in the event of maturity of loans and the Government does not pay bills for the referendum to which you referred. That's what happens in Catalonia and all of Spain. In the case of Catalonia, there were also agreements of the Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs in 2015, and twice in 2017, which in practice involved the intervention of the Treasury and the payment management of the Generalitat de Catalunya. There is no report from anyone who says that with the Autonomous Liquidity Fund the expenses to which you refer have been paid and, if you have the report or can provide any evidence or invoice, give it to the Government of Spain - who is sure that it will act - or tell it, if you think it is appropriate and convenient, to the courts. Make no mistake about your opponents. The problem in Catalonia is not a problem that the Government has organized, but those responsible for it. Sometimes I have the feeling that you are more critical of the Spanish Government than you are of those who should be critical of it, who are responsible for the Generalitat de Catalunya. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u26	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JOAN TARDA I COMA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF REPULIC KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT SCENARY DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT BELIEVE THAT WILL BE OPENED IN CATALUNIA AFTER THE ELECTIONS OF 21 DECEMBER? [[File number 180/00499]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u27	Question to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Joan Tardà i Coma of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u28	Madam Vice-President, what scenario do you envisage for Catalonia after 21 December?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u29	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tardà, I understand that when you registered this question in December you were worried about the scenarios that would open up in Catalonia after the elections, I can even understand that you intended other different scenarios, but now, if you will allow me and humbly, we are not in the scenarios that open, but in the scenarios that close. That responsibility, among others, lies with you, with the parties that have options of government there and with the president of the Parliament of Catalonia so that once and for all there is an effective, legal and legitimate government that can worry about Catalonia and not just about a Catalan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u31	Mr. Tardà, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u32	Madam Vice-President, 100 years ago in this House, Maura responded just like you, who never had sovereignty, which is the same as saying that we do not negotiate with those who want to break Spain. It's been a century and look where we are. The independenceists had never gone that far, nor had we ever been so many. I refer to the titanic independence victory of 21 December against wind and tide, all in the face of another reality. In 1978 90% of Catalans voted yes to the Constitution. Today the parties called constitutionalists do not reach 43%. Today you here can show sharp, round, even threatening. True, you have the means to make us suffer, in fact we are suffering. 155 affects all Catalans, whether or not they are independent. Finance is involved, democratic citizens are in jail and even a judicial macro-cause is approaching to defuse independence with more imprisonment. But reality is what it is. 50% of Catalans are independenceists, many more declare themselves self-determinationists, and even you, I think naively, believe that non-independence Catalans have signed a policy for which they will never be. Javier Pérez Royo said: this is not the first time in Spanish history that the political mutilation of Catalonia has been rehearsed, and the results have always been terrible. And he concludes: why is it going to be different now? I am so in agreement with these words that I ask you not to go this way. Experiencing violence, dangerous repression, brute force vanishes before democracy, because in the twenty-first century democratic societies cannot be built without the consent of the citizens, unless you finally choose to clone yourself with Erdogan. So abandon the path of authoritarianism, restore institutions of self-government, assume the need to establish a dialogue between the two governments, and above all I believe that they must assume that in advanced societies political problems are solved politically. Spain and Catalonia, both peoples, both nations, both citizens, deserve it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u33	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u34	Mr. Tardà, I think you have a problem. He comes here to boast of the strength of independence and the first thing I should do is to have a certain respect for the Catalans to say in public what you say in private. It comes here to boast of the strength of independence, but when we know your agendas, your messages, your reports, we know the true reality of what you think. You come here to talk about independence when in private you recognize that it is not possible, and that you were willing to sacrifice to all of Catalonia, to the Catalonian economy and to the social welfare of Catalans for moving forward with something that you thought impossible. Is it so difficult to sacrifice a Catalan when he has sacrificed his businesses, his public services, his welfare, that he is, by the way, managing this government for Article 155? You come to boast of the vows of independence. I will read you a textual phrase from your party: without 50% of the votes, even if we have an absolute majority, there will be a political crisis between the independence parties that could anticipate the end of the process. If tensions between independent actors do not settle, the process will have ended. Yes, Mr. Tardà, for what must triumph is the law and coexistence, which is the fruit of the law. Therefore, Mr. Tardà, you go and close the stage. Here there are scenarios that have been closed forever: non-compliance with the law, which is the strength of democracy; non-compliance with judicial decisions, because no one is above democracy and judges; and respect for Parliament. Have respect for your own institutions, appoint a president of the Generalitat who may be, comply with the rest of the parliamentary groups and return to Catalonia that coexistence that many Spaniards had been very proud of since Maura and long before. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u35	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED PAPER BUSTINDUY AMADOR, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHY THE GOVERNMENT HAS DONE THIS PARLIAMENT AND HASN'T RATIFIED THE PROHIBITION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS TREATMENT? [[File number 180/00493]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u36	Question now to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Mr Pablo Bustinduy Amador, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u37	Minister, last December he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for the International Campaign for the Abolition of Nuclear Weapons. I wanted to ask you why the Government has not yet signed that treaty.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u39	Thank you. Mr Bustinduy, the spirit that drives the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is a spirit that, I believe, we share all humanity and, of course, this Government. The problem is that this treaty seeks to achieve that goal on the wrong path. It has the paradox that none of those who have signed that treaty have the nuclear weapon and are likely to undermine the only regime that is actually acting to limit nuclear proliferation, which is the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We're not signing it for three reasons. Because we want to preserve the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, out of solidarity with our allies in the Atlantic Alliance, and because what we seek is, in multilateralism, to foster the greatest possible consensus, something that that treaty does not achieve. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Bustinduy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u41	The Government rejects this treaty to ban nuclear weapons because it says that its approach is unrealistic and yet the reality is that 56 countries have already signed it and 122 States - two thirds of the United Nations - support it; that list includes countries such as Austria, Uruguay, South Africa, Brazil, Ireland and many others. None of these countries, Mr Dastis, have a realistic approach to international relations? Does not the Nobel Peace Committee have it, which, on the other hand, is not precisely known for its idealism? The reality, Minister, is that today there are more nuclear weapons and in the hands of more countries than ever before, and we have witnessed episodes of tension that we have not seen in decades; so it is just the opposite. In the face of the failure of non-proliferation, the only realistic approach to nuclear weapons, which has worked for anti-racism bombs or anti-personnel mines, is to ban them and destroy them. The real reason you mentioned it. The reason why you have not supported this treaty is that NATO has banned it, and you have decided to obey, renouncing your own voice in the process. It is curious, you who claim to be so patriotic consider that Spain's greatest geopolitical interest, the greatest we can aspire to is a subordinate, subordinate and obedient position with respect to the Atlantic command, even if that means leaving the fate of the world in the hands of Donald Trump. That is why you support the increase in military spending and send troops to the whole world while boycotting this treaty. [[Applauds]] It is a shame, Minister, to see the Government of Spain act as Mr Trump's geopolitical vassal. And, if that is not so, you say here today loud and clear that Spain condemns Trump's decision on Jerusalem that has dynamized the Middle East peace process and demands its immediate revocation. [[Applauds]] Say that Spain deplores its intolerable racist insults against African and Latin American countries. Say that Spain condemns the revision of the American nuclear doctrine, the unacceptable blackmail it is doing to the Unrwa or its boycott of the Paris Agreement. Mr Dastis, a patriotic minister instead of saying barbarities in the BBC would say here today, loud and clear, that we are a country with our own voice, a sovereign country committed to peace and would announce, for example, that Spain is not going to consent to nuclear weapons in our territory either on damaged submarines or on foreign military bases. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u42	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bustinduy, it seems to me very good that you make the argument of foreign policy that you would do if you came to the Government, but I believe that the Government is doing really effective things and that they keep us in a high degree of responsibility in the international community, seeking peace and nuclear disarmament. You have spoken of the universality of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Frankly, it has been signed by 56 Member States and ratified by 4 States, while 190 Member States have ratified the Non-Proliferation Treaty. And the reality is that it is the only means, even if it is gradual, to achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. You said there are more nuclear weapons now than before. That's not true. It is true that in the 1960s Kennedy predicted that there would be twenty states with nuclear weapons; the reality is that they do not reach ten and that the arsenal is inferior to that of the cold war. We do not support the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons because, contrary to the objective of uniting the international community, it divides it, because it undermines the only regime that needs to be effective, a gradual regime that we will continue to try to preserve from the policy of the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u44	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF LEOPOLD BARREDA DE LA RÍOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERED TO KEEP THE PERMANENT REVISABLE PRISON? [[File number 180/00515]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u45	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Leopoldo Barreda de los Ríos, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u46	Thank you very much. Minister, the reviewable permanent prison was incorporated into our legal system by the reform of the 2015 Criminal Code. It was a government-driven reform supported by the absolute majority of the People's Party and by a very large majority, 75%, of the Spanish. The reviewable permanent prison punishes the most serious conduct, the most social rejection, applies to a limited number of cases of extreme gravity and cruelty and has been applied with measure and proportionality by the courts of justice. It is therefore an instrument to guarantee the security and freedom of the Spaniards, its aim being to prevent the perpetrators of the most serious crimes from regaining freedom without the will to reintegrate, without regret and posing a threat to society. The permanent reviewable prison is a figure similar to those in practically all European countries, with figures repeatedly endorsed by the European Court of Human Rights. Having said that, in Spain, however, since 2006 the second, third and fourth political forces of the House have taken steps to repeal the permanent prison that can be reviewed through different pacts and parliamentary initiatives. Thus, the reviewable permanent prison has been marked in this Chamber of unconstitutional, inhumane, vengeful or merely punitive populism, in the mouth of different spokesmen of these formations. None of these groups - second, third and fourth in the House - have supported in any vote the permanence of the reviewable permanent prison. There has been some radio announcement a few days ago that it seemed to involve a change of position by some group, but it was a repudiated announcement of abstention in different local institutions and autonomous parliaments, since this week several autonomous parliaments and many municipalities have discussed the permanence of the permanent prison reviewable and, in all cases, only the vote of the People's Party in favour of that permanence has been achieved. However, the Spanish society has extended this support to the reviewable permanent prison, which is already 80%, and I therefore ask you, Minister, whether the Government considers it appropriate to keep the reviewable permanent prison in our legal system. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u47	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barreda, thank you for bringing to this House's monitoring session a matter of genuine topicality and which I believe is of great concern to the citizens. If we are to do anything from politics, we must look at society, identify real problems and address them. Few things worry the Spaniards more today than the fact that the most dangerous criminals can go out on the street without having guaranteed their social reintegration. With the repeal of the reviewable permanent prison, we will not be able to address the social concern, rather the opposite. With the proposal of some and the abstention of others we will be doing a weak service to our democracy. The reviewable permanent prison is not only desirable in a criminal law, but is a measure of absolute justice. There is nothing fairer than meeting citizens' demands. In my view, it is absolutely constitutional, and many more think so, at the expense of what our Constitutional Court says. It had received all the favourable reports in its process of dealing with the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the Council of State. It is fully consistent with international doctrine, with the European Court of Human Rights, and with the International Criminal Court. It therefore has all the guarantees of the institutions to be part of our right, as it is of all the rights of the European Union. This isn't going to be a hot law. We've been talking about this for many years, over ten. It is not opportunism, it is opportunity, because being next to the victims seems to me to be always opportune, and, above all, it is responsibility, listening and having responsibility. Nothing is more reasonable than to take account of what 80% of citizens think about this matter. We will continue to defend the desirability of keeping the permanent prison reviewable and we will propose an improvement of the current regulation, adding some types such as those that have made the bodies of the victims disappear or the abductions that result in murder. I believe that regulation can still be improved. I hope that in this House we will find this consensus. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion keeping the permanent prison reviewable is an exercise of responsibility that we must do among all Members. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u49	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON FRANCESC XAVIER ERITJA CIURÓ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ACTIONS HAS THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN TO COMPLETE WITH THE PARLIAMENTARY MANDATE, ADOPTED ON 21 FEBRUARY 2017, WITH REGARD TO THE PREPARATION OF A SPECIFIC POINT OF RUSSICS THAT DOESN'T INJURY AGRICULTURAL, GNADERAL AND FORESTAL ACTIVITY? [[File number 180/00501]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u50	This is a question now addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Xavier Eritja Ciuro, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. This month will be a year of the parliamentary mandate that called on the Government to prepare a specific paper on rustic property; a paper that would make it possible to correct the overvaluation of the constructions indispensable for the development of agricultural, livestock and forestry activities, and which today is calculated on the basis of the urban paper. This implies a distortion of the real value of the property of the rural construction and, on the other hand, an aggravation to the owner, since he must assume a tax burden that really does not belong to him. The most serious of all is that this ends up seriously harming the agricultural sector. The question would be: What actions has the Government taken to fulfil the parliamentary mandate approved on 21 February 2017?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the government is at all times acting under the current legislation to ensure that the cadastral valuation of buildings is correct, both for urban and rural buildings. We must remember that the consolidated text of the Law on Real Estate Disaster already includes corrective mechanisms, precisely, to prevent the catastrophic valuations of rustic constructions from being excessive. In any case, as I suppose your honor knows, the Government, the autonomous communities and the municipalities are working to incorporate and undertake an important reform of the financing of our territorial administrations; a reform that will result, in the coming months, in a change in the model of autonomous financing and in the model of local financing, based on the proposals of the expert commissions that last year took up the study for that reform. It is therefore reasonable to accompany the partial changes we are seeking to make to the content of this reform. I do not have to remind you that your parliamentary group has shown absolutely no interest in participating in these reforms, either of regional or local funding. Your ladies and gentlemen are on something else, and I therefore also take advantage of the answer to call for your ladies and gentlemen to be included in the work that really matters to the citizens, which is to promote reforms that carry out the existence of fair and equitable taxes for all. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Eritja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u55	Minister, we remind you that we already assumed that corrective measures had been implemented, but what we specifically asked was that, taking advantage of corrective measures, a paper, rustica, should begin to be worked on and drafted, and it has not yet been done. In the debate in February, Minister, you have already intended to delegitimise our initiative by blaming a lack of will in the participation of our Catalan Government in the review of the reform of the system of financing public administrations, as you have said right now, and we reply to you that these are two procedures that must not necessarily go hand in hand. What we need to talk about here is not what the Catalan Government does or does not do, but what the Spanish Government does or does not do; and what it has not done is to solve the problem that you yourselves created by making Rustic constructions pay for agricultural purposes as if they were urban constructions, with the aggravation that this entails. It is not fair, and this Congress considered it so when in February it approved the motion submitted by Esquerra for the elaboration of a presentation of the rustic. This is the objective and this is what we're talking about here. And in line with this we try to incorporate it, even, as an amendment to the articulated general budgets, urging it to modify the consolidated text of the Law of the Real Estate Disaster and the Law Regulating Local Finances, but the opposition vote of the People's and Citizens' Party prevented it. Therefore, it was not accepted at the time. It has been a year since this initiative was implemented. His passivity in this parliamentary mandate is yet another sign of the Executive's disregard for parliamentary decisions; a dynamic that, as has been mentioned these days, impoverishes the democratic quality of the Spanish State and, as The Economist indicates, devalues us to the level of imperfect democracy. And it is that after your intervention, I repeat that you, Mr Montoro, have done nothing and have no will to do anything. I repeat, your aim is to make the agricultural sector fall... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u57	Of course, minimum coherence requires... But are you in independence or working to have a more modern autonomous and local funding regime? Here's the thing. If what you propose is that you will work with everyone else to modernize our system of autonomous and local financing, I tell you that that is not what you have done so far, neither you nor the previous Government of the Generalitat. Whoever showed no interest or will has been the previous Government of the Generalitat and at the moment we are asking your lordship to clarify what they are working for and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT DID THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR DO TO TAKE IN THIS LEGISLATION, IS THE COMPLETE SALARY EQUIPMENT OF NATIONAL POLICE AND CIVIL CARE WITH THE BEST PAYED AUTONOMIC POLICIES? [[File number 180/00508]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u59	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. First of all, a question from Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this is the third time that we have spoken on this subject in this rostrum and surely the first two you did not know how to answer us, you did not commit yourself to this House and of course you did not commit yourself to the men and women who make up the Civil Guard and the National Police, and I am sure you will not do it today either. We are now accustomed to the commitments you made when we signed the investiture with Mr Rajoy and his Government not fulfilling them, but I am sure that both the men and women who make up the Civil Guard and the National Police and their families are not understanding anything you are doing. I'll give you a brief summary. On December 26, you presented to the social group of the Civil Guard and the National Police a working document where you undertook to study how to make the salary equalization between these forces and the autonomous ones. He didn't give figures, but he got a match commitment. On 16 January he recommitted himself to them by telling them that yes, that up to €1.5 billion, but he did not put any commitment in this year's budgets and at the end he told them that they would have to reduce those social rights that they had achieved to date. But on 1 February this year Mr Montoro dynamite you all the negotiation and tells you that where there was EUR 1500 million now there will only be 600, 900 million less, Minister. I don't understand anything. I insist, we know that you do not commit. I find it difficult not to engage with the men and women who make up the Civil Guard and the National Police. Mr. Minister, it seems that Mr. Montoro has you amortized. Believe me, it looks like he's got you amortized. For more than thirty years these men and women have been waiting for wage equality, a wage equality of justice. Those families don't deserve what you're doing to them. If you are not able to do this, it is very easy: leave us. We will negotiate with Mr Montoro, who seems to have the singing voice here in the end, and we will put EUR 500 million in the 2018 budgets. What you have to do is tell Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy to bring the budgets to this House, which is something you have not done. So, you talk to Mr Montoro, talk to Mr Rajoy, bring the budgets here and don't give us the management shows he's giving us in the last few months. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u61	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u62	Thank you very much, President. Mr Gutierrez, I am not going to use the disqualifications you have used, but I am going to tell you one thing: we have done many things, as you have asked me. We have been doing a lot of things and we will continue to do them because this question you are asking me for no doubt requires intense previous work to really know what the real difference between the wages of each and every State Security Force and Corps is. What we have clearly transferred to all the police unions and to all the associations of the Civil Guard is the firm commitment of the Government of the People's Party of Mariano Rajoy to achieve full and complete equality in wages and social conditions in the next three budgets, and in addition we are already negotiating it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter that, like everyone else, needs to be studied and, above all, it needs to be addressed from the point of view of seriousness and rigour. Some people do it behind a banner, and you know a lot about that. We are doing so in the most serious and rigorous way that has to be done to govern. It is true that we have not yet reached an agreement with the unions, but I also say one thing: we are going to reach an agreement with the unions. What I would like to know is what rigorous study you are based on, Mr Gutiérrez, to say and fix an amount. I would also like to know why you fix those amounts, but especially where those accounts come from. This Government has rigorously analysed them, and not only have we studied them, but we are already sharing them at negotiating tables with the police unions and with all the associations of the Civil Guard. It is a claim, as I said, from thirty years ago. When we reach an agreement, this will be a real reality that will be completed by 2020, when then a civilian guard and a national police will win exactly the same as the Mossos d'Esquadra. And let us not forget that this will be a reality thanks to the government of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party, with the support also of other forces present here. But what I find regrettable is that you come to say that we bring some budgets when you still haven't even sat down and said absolutely nothing. You want to hang a medal and what I welcome is that you got on this train, because neither you signed it in the pact with the Socialist Party, nor in the pact with the People's Party, nor set it as a condition in the budgets of the current year, so it won't be so important to you this salary equalization... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u63	Thank you very much. - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO TO CLEAR [[EAJ-PNV]] THE ATTENDANCE AGAINST BAR ALDANA DE ALONSOTEGI, ON 20 JANUARY 1980, RECEIVED BY THE SPAIN ARMED GROUPS, COMMENDING BY MEMBERS OF THE POLICE COMMISSION OF BARAKALDO? [[BIZKAIA]] [[File number 180/00502]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u64	Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group, also to the Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. On January 20, 1980, a powerful bomb exploded at Aldana bar in Alonsotegi, Bizkaia. Four people were killed, Liborio Arana, Manuel Santacoloma, Mari Paz Ariño and Pacific Fika. Their dismembered bodies were collected around and ten more people were injured of varying severity. Most of the victims were members and supporters of the Basque Nationalist Party, as well as the usual clientele of the bar and its owners. It was a mass murder claimed by the GAE, a group apparently linked to so-called state terrorism. And I say, apparently, because years later, during investigations into the LAGs, it was pointed out as material perpetrators of the attack on members of the Barakaldo Police Station. The facts remain unclear thirty-eight years later. Minister, what does the government intend to do?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u66	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u67	Thank you, President. Mr Legarda, you ask me about facts that happened thirty-eight years ago. I am certainly aware of them and certainly in this case, as in other similar cases, the police have an obligation to continue to work for the clarification of them, and that is what they are doing. The only thing I can assure you, Mr Legarda, is that this Government is aware of the seriousness of these facts, so I assure you that the investigations, despite the time that has elapsed, are still open, incorporating into them any diligence that can contribute to the clarification of the facts and to identifying who the perpetrators were. And that will be brought to the attention, in the event that it is, of the judicial authority, that is who directs this attestation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Legarda, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u69	Yes, Minister, but the terrorist act remains unclear and we have always been answered the same from the Ministry of the Interior and from the Government, which there is no trace in the archives of the Interior, and neither have the victims been informed at any time. Do you know, Minister, who was in charge of the investigation? Mr Amedo, sentenced in two sentences to 117 years in prison for the kidnappings of Second Marey and for the attacks also in the bars Consolación and Batzoki. Does the minister believe that this attack had a chance of being resolved with Mr. Amedo at the front and pointing as perpetrators members of the police of the Barakaldo police station? That may explain why there's no trace in the Interior files. Minister, don't you think that an investigation should have been opened on an ex officio basis as to why there is no trace of any investigation in the archives of the Interior for thirty-eight years? We do not want to think that these strange circumstances also have anything to do with considering the bad ones to the penises next to the etarras, batasunos and the Basque church, as we have recently heard from Sánchez Corbí. Minister, the victims and their families deserve memory and justice and so far have been under the expansive backdrop of an explosion of silence and the perpetrators are unpunished. Minister, what are you going to do...? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u70	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u71	Unfortunately, there are many terrorist attacks that have not been clarified by either sign, but, Mr Legarda, I would like to make it very clear to you that the Government to which I am a party absolutely condemns the vile murders that took place thirty-eight years ago at the Aldana bar. No crime or murder has any justification or legitimacy, nor deserve impunity, I tell you. And that's what sets us apart from all the democrats from the terrorists, and that's the great advantage that we have those who believe in democracy before, now, and forever. I want this absolutely meridian red line to be very clear to this government. From here, I'm going to focus on what you're asking. He asks me about a police investigation of thirty-eight years ago, of facts that apparently had little information about the authors, beyond a claim, Mr. Legarda. We are talking about an investigation of the year 1980 and I wonder about those facts as if the current Government were responsible for the police investigation not now coming to a good place. We share with you, and I would like to make it very clear to you, the need for the investigation of everything that happened in that attack to remain open. The objective remains, as I said before, to identify the perpetrators and make them available to the judicial authority, and that is what this Government is committed to. That is the way forward, as well as aid to the victims of terrorism, who, as you are well aware, have helped the victims of the terrorism of this attack. Of the four victims, three were recognized in 1980, one in the year... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: DOES THE PROBLEM OF EDUCATION IN THIS COUNTRY CONSIDER THAT THE PROFESSIONALS ARE MUCH FORMED AFTER EXPENDITURE OF 25 000 IN THE LAST YEARS? [[File number 180/00506]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u73	Questions now to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. First of all, question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u74	Thank you, President. Do you really consider, Minister, that the problem with education in our country is that teachers are poorly trained when you have fired 25,000 teachers in recent years?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u75	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Your Honor, I do not believe that the Spanish education system has a problem, I think it has a challenge, rethinking education and transforming the way of teaching to change the way of learning and especially in digital competition. His second statement is rigorously false. At the worst time of the crisis, in the course of 2012-2013, the general school teacher reached 665,334 jobs. The advanced data for the 2016-2017 course, the last of which we have, reach 695,598, or 30,000 more teachers. Therefore, at this time there are many more teachers than at the worst time of the crisis. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u78	Thank you. Today you will allow me to speak to you not as a member of this confederal group, but as an educator, which is who I am. I fell in love with education by seeing fellow students leave their afternoons, nights and weekends preparing classes to see how they could motivate and make their students think, correcting jobs outside their working hours and even spending their money on courses such as sign language, which they needed, but which the Administration did not give them. And all that was done by vocation and by pure commitment to his profession. I fell in love with education also in classes such as Education Psychology in which I understood that the only school that is able to guarantee equal opportunities for all children in our country is public school. That is why someone like you, who has been in politics since 1982, since he was twenty-six years old, and I very much doubt that he has ever stepped on a classroom in a public school in our country, I will not allow him to disrespect the teachers of our country because they are not the problem of education in our country, the problem of education in our country is called the People's Party, because it is the People's Party that has dismantled the permanent formation of the teacher. [[Applauds]] You have cut by 95% the teacher's permanent training and now comes with the story of the educational mir, when what you want is to pay less to new teachers. They tell him to look educational when what they mean is low-cost teacher. You have left investment in education at 3.8% of GDP, which is an absolutely ridiculous figure, and always without touching investment in private education, which you like. His educational model is that of the women Esperanza Aguirre and Lucía Fígar, who paid the Punica to discredit the green tide on the Internet, and that is a shame. That's his educational model. [[Applauds]] You are using the state pact for education to whitewash the Lomce, to continue applying it. Pay attention once and for all to the educational community. Put yourself on the side of public school, remove the Lomce and increase the investment to 7% to put us, this time, at the head of Europe in something good. Today's Spain will thank you, but, above all, who will thank you will be tomorrow's Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u79	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u80	I'm glad you haven't talked about the 25,000 teachers again. Once I have given you the actual figures, you will have realized that what I raised in your question was false. Your honor, your speech is very old-fashioned. Yes, you are young, but your speech is very old. That speech could have been made in the years 2012 and 2013, years of the crisis. By the way, crisis due to these gentlemen there, to which their leader every day tries to make demands to see if he forms a coalition government, with those responsible, with those. Your Honour, I say that your speech is old because all the measures that have been taken have been repealed and you know it very well. [[Ms. Belarra Urteaga utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, and I'm gonna explain. See if he knows well. What did your parliamentary group vote on Royal Decree-Law 6/2017? What did you vote for? Do you remember? He voted yes. And why did you vote yes? Because that decree-law allowed for the creation of teaching places. They voted yes. You almost never vote with the government, but then you voted yes because you knew it was good for people. And now, among many other things, he's telling me about the mir. It is against the educational mir and I think it is a good proposal, which has emerged in the heat of what happened in the subcommittee responsible for the subject. Your Honour, in point 145 of your programme they talk about a long period of practice. Your show. I mean, when you want an educational look on your program it's good and when the government proposes it it's bad. [[Mrs. Belarra Urteaga: Paying! Paying!-Applause]] Manichaeism, Your Honor, no. Your program, Your Honor. Let's see if he reads it and listens to it. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT OBJECTIVES IS THE PROPOSAL OF THE MIR EDUCATIVE? [[File number 180/00516]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u81	He also asked the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport of Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of an education system cannot be higher than the quality of its teaching staff. This phrase, from a senior official of the Government of South Korea, appears for the first time in the 2007 McKinsey report, a report devoted to analysing twenty-five education systems, including the top ten in the world, and which sought to focus attention on what reforms had been achieved to improve the system. This phrase summarises extraordinarily graphically the importance of teaching as a critical element in the improvement of the educational system. The question is what these systems had in common. Two aspects. They had succeeded in attracting the most qualified people to practice teaching through rigorous selection systems and had promoted their development until they became effective teachers, i.e., they had invested in good training and a career. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about something more than ten years ago, not yesterday or the day before yesterday. This is why this group, the People's Parliamentary Group, for this and for another series of empirical evidence, including the one that shows that the teacher's knowledge and the quality of the teacher can explain up to 30% of the improvement in school performance, has been presenting since 2009 successive initiatives seeking agreement to achieve a change in the access system and the design of a professional career that allows the best to take the step towards the exercise of teaching. We offered it to the socialist government when we were negotiating in 2010 the pact for education and to the Spanish we offered it in 2011, when we told them that we should put in place a new model of selection and training of a national character for access to the teaching function based on the principles of merit and capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently negotiating the social and political pact for education, and what was previously necessary in our view is essential. We are talking about a matter of opportunity, not opportunism. That is why, Minister, I am asking you the following question: What are the aims of the reform of the educational mir? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u83	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u84	Madam President, Your Honor, I take up your words to say that training and attracting the best into the profession is the goal pursued by this educational look. Therefore, the access system must be stable, consistent with the functions it will perform and must be predictable. The objective is a career based on the principles of merit, capacity and subject to evaluation. This is in line - you have referred to some examples of a successful model - with the conclusions of the Council of the European Union of 20 May 2014, and also with what the experts say. I would like to quote Mr Schleicher, from the OECD, who makes the PISA report, where he says that success in education systems combines university learning with practices and experiences in schools. So that's what we want, better training for capture and talent and that model requires taking different steps and those are the ones we intend to give with that educational look. On the other hand, the educational mir has received great support - you know it well because it is part of this Sub-Commission of the Congress of Deputies - in the eighty-three appearances that there have been; then we believe that it is an element of consensus and an element that can be settled in another model that has been successful in our country, the mir of health. Our health is a splendid health, the third most efficient in the world, and it is also based on that health eye. That is why we want to copy what works well in our country. This educational mir will be oriented to a first part of initial training that we must work with universities, a period of practice in real contexts and, of course, in lifelong learning. We also believe that it is necessary to define with rigour the training project which, over these two years - those which lasts the authorization - supports the learning of the initial training and the skills required for the professional exercise with the support of the best teachers and through a network of singular educational institutions. This is a proposal that, together with others who talk about the financial pact, is currently within the social and political state pact for education. I think the Spaniards are asking us to do this, I think digital skills are demanding of us. The work you are doing is a good job and I believe that the more we strive to do so, the more we leave an important legacy for that learning of the future that is what we all want in this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u85	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT LESS-ENJOYED VUES CAN WAIT FOR MORE THAN THE INCREASING OF THEIR PENSIONS PRESENTED IN THE LAW SINCE 2011? [[File number 180/00510]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u86	Questions now to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. He asked first of all about Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u87	Thank you, President. The Socialist Act 27/2011 required the Government to increase widow's pensions for those over 65 without the right to another pension or other income to 60 per cent of the pension's regulatory base, but since Rajoy arrived at the Government he has done everything possible to breach this obligation. Notice, in your first decree-law - you know it very well because it was already there - of your first Council of Ministers, on 30 December 2011, postponed this increase and since then it has been postponed every year over and over again. Now they intend to raise a single point in 2018, from 52% to 53%, and announce - they say - that after a coup in 2019 the 7 points that are missing will rise to 60%. That is why I ask you, Minister: does the Government believe that widows with lower incomes can expect even more than they have already expected for compliance with the law? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u88	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, what widows and widows in Spain could not bear was not a minute more the situation in which the Socialist Party had them with the pensions frozen in 2011, Mrs Lastra. That is why Mariano Rajoy's government made the first decision at its first Council of Ministers was to raise pensions, and we have done that every year. Our commitment to the widows and the Spanish widows is undeniable. The actual decree to raise the regulatory base from 52% to 60% is in process and will be adopted shortly, and also for us it is a measure that we do for consistency, because the previous increase from 48% to 52% was also made by a government of the People's Party. Therefore, compromise with the widows and widows of Spain before, now and forever, Mrs Lastra. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u90	Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u91	Minister, do you know the socio-economic profile of pensioners in this country? - No, no, no, Because they are mostly women by the way; I don't know what happens to you with equality, it will be a deeply ideological issue too -. Look, in Spain we have 2 300 000 widowers, their average age is 73 years, they get an average pension of 630 euros per month and one out of three pensioners, one out of three widowers needs a minimum supplement. It is difficult to imagine a group that needs more government assistance, protection from the Government of their country, when in addition the majority of pensions are below the interprofessional minimum wage, i.e. they are at the poverty threshold. Madam Minister, these pensioners have not only not raised what was theirs, but have been subjected to new sacrifices, for example, the pharmaceutical coffer, that is, they have become even poorer. - This is what your government has done, this is what you have done. These pensioners are being deprived of the increases that were due by law since January 1, 2012, six years ago; six years in debt to them, Minister. And you know why they didn't do it? Because it was a socialist law, because they do not believe in it, because it, as I say, made it a socialist government, and it also did so as these things should be done: with a great social agreement with the social actors to protect the most disadvantaged. Look, Minister, this is an empty, paralyzed government that does not protect the most vulnerable. I have told you on many occasions, Spain is the Spaniards, and Spain defends itself by defending, above all, the most vulnerable people, which you do not do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u92	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, the Spaniards and the pensioners are defended with commitment and facts. Today there are actually 2,360,000 widow's pensions in Spain; the average amount of this widow's pension is €651, but do you know what it means about 2011? 10% more, because then, with you it was 588 euros; therefore, the widow's pensions consumed every year are advancing. We have done what we have been able to in a situation of economic difficulty, Your Honor, and you know it very well. We launched a maternity supplement thinking that women in this country had shorter contributory careers and therefore lower pensions; maternity supplement, Your Honor, it is an initiative that since 2016 has given 342,000 women in Spain the opportunity to receive a supplement of up to 15% more of their pension. Of these, 170 000 are widow's pensions which have risen to 15%, and the average of these widow's pensions compatible with the supplement has risen by 6% since 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, we are improving our pension model, we are raising pensions and we would also like to find the Socialist Party, in the pact and in the agreement, not in demagogy and political rallies. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN SOFIA HERNANZ COSTA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY CREATE THAT THE SOLUTION TO THEIR DEFICIENT MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY GOES TO DECIDE 'DOS EURILLOS' TO A PRIVATE PENSION MONTH? [[File number 180/00511]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u94	She also asked the Minister for Employment and Social Security of Mrs Sofía Hernanz Costa of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you really believe that the solution to your disastrous management at the head of Social Security is that the Spaniards dedicate 2 eurillos a month to paying private insurance? Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u96	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, look, Spain has a public pension system that has a complementary pillar that essentially involves company pension plans that are managed in the social dialogue, and also private pension plans, which we respect, which voluntarily decide to put in place citizens, but the commitment in body and soul of this government is to strengthen our public pension model, which is also admired within and outside our country. Do you know how we do it every day? Most importantly, Your Honor, with economic growth, with employment, with reforms, and we would also like to do so with pacts, with agreements, in the Toledo Pact and in the social dialogue. Where are you, Mrs. Hernanz? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u98	Mrs. Hernanz, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u99	Madam Minister, the Socialists are in the reality of the citizens and pensioners of this country, who suffer day by day if you are sitting at the head of the ministry. Minister, you have been at the head of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security for six years; you are ruining current pensioners, condemning pensioners of the future and leaving the public pension system in a genuine state of emergency, with more than 18 billion deficits. Can you explain to me where you get so much self-satisfaction and so much pride? Because I can assure you that the Spaniards, the citizens, the pensioners are already quite tired of their pride, their lies, their inflated figures. It's hard to understand, sometimes it's hard even to understand that you sleep well at night. [[Rumors]] The reality is that their labour reform has made jobs precarious and impoverished workers, who no longer charge or contribute enough, and that is why the jobs they create are no longer sufficient to maintain the pension system. The reality is that the pensioners do not arrive at the end of the month because of their small increases of 0.25, however much I send them euphoric letters, which by the way the pensioners of this country are returning to millions. The reality is that the new pensioners who join the system as of January 1, 2019, will be even poorer, by the work and grace of their sustainability factor, which got out of hand with their 2013 reform, which I ask you to get up and explain. They have impoverished pensioners, looted the pension shelter and continued to indebt Social Security. That is his legacy at the head of the ministry. This Government is squandering a heritage that does not belong to it. Pensions are the property of workers in this country, who have earned them by contributing their entire lives and paying their taxes. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u100	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, in 2011 the number of pensions in Spain was 8,800; today there are 9.5 million, 700 000 more pensions. The average retirement pension, with you in the government, was 923 euros per month; today it exceeds 1000 euros, it is 1072 euros, has risen on average by 16%. The annual expenditure on pensions in 2011 was 99,500 million euros, today it is 122,777 million, 23% more. You know why? For the commitment of this government, which wants a way out of the crisis with the pensioners. And you know what we did? Unfreezing pensions and raising them every year, because we believed that the most vulnerable in our society - who were the pensioners - did not deserve the freezing that made them Zapatero. You tell me about the letter. I have sent every year the letter to the pensioners, first, to thank them for their efforts and, second, to show the government's commitment, and I have done so because I am bound by the law. Do you know who didn't? The Minister of Labor of Zapatero when he froze the pensions, ordered a director general to do so because he was a coward and embarrassed him what they did at the time. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Thank you very much, Madam President. - THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA MERCÈ PEREA I CONILLAS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE DEFICIT OF SOCIAL SECURITY IN 2017? [[File number 180/00512]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u102	She also asked the Minister of Mrs María Mercè Perea i Conillas of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u103	Thank you, President. How does the government rate the social security deficit in 2017?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u104	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Perea, thank you for your question. We look at the social security situation, Mrs Perea, with realism and confidence in the pensions of the future. Because when is our pension model better, when they freeze pensions or when pensions go up every year? Before you destroyed 1500 jobs a day or now in 2017 created 1,700 jobs a day? When is the system better, when for each new pension three jobs are destroyed with the socialists or now for each new pension six new jobs are created? When is the pension system better, when income increases year by year because there is economic growth and employment grows intensely in Spain or when more than 3,200,000 jobs have been destroyed and we find a Spain on the verge of bankruptcy? Your Honor, pensions are better with economic growth, with employment and also with agreement between parliamentary groups. I invite you to participate actively in the Toledo Pact Bureau and to respect with loyalty all parliamentary groups. I am not just saying this for the People's Group, but for the rest of the parliamentary groups, which are doing an extraordinary job of improving the strength of our pension system together today and of covering pensioners tomorrow, who are the young people who are working today. You owe it just like me to all the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u106	Mrs. Perea i Conillas, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u107	After six years of its labour reform and five years of its pension reform that should have made the system sustainable - I think -, after drum and dish ads of the best economic data of the European Union, the truth is that 2017 has closed with the biggest deficit in the history of Social Security, 18.8 billion euros. There is a accumulated deficit since the start of its management in 2012 of 87 238 million euros; and you, minister, not only do not fall apart, but you also come to Congress with triumphant airs to laugh at the Spaniards at last week's appearance. [[The Minister of Employment and Social Security, Báñez García, makes negative gestures]] You laughed, minister, you laughed the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] There is more than EUR 87 billion in accumulated deficit, the cost of two bank bailouts. [[The Minister of Employment and Social Security, Báñez García, makes negative gestures]] Yes, minister, 18.8 billion is less than half of the two 44 billion bank bailouts that we all spend - remember? - on rescuing banks. You, Minister, have been dropping the social security system and ruining the public pension system for six years. The income you're so fanfareful of isn't over that of 2011, when we were in four years of crisis. In 2011, the contribution income was sufficient to cover the contribution expenditure. Today the 2017 collection does not exceed that of 2011. Look at him, update the data, and see how he realizes he's lying. Today's employment - its employment - under current conditions only leads us to one path: an accumulated deficit of 87 238 million. Your employment model, your labour market model, will never cover the deficit, and the worst is that you know it. Worst of all, you don't do anything about it. Why don't you do anything? I will tell you: there is a clear will to leave the system in debt and with a structural deficit; to leave a system that will finally lead to the system of social protection. Your Honor, the Socialist Party is in the Toledo Pact for a pact. We are also waiting to hear from the social partners with whom you have not met since February. We will agree, but with these recommendations; since we do not trust you, there must be measures that accompany the pact. The most redistributive system we have is that of social protection and you want to boost it. Socialists are not going to allow it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u108	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Perea, your massive unemployment yesterday is today's social security deficit. For the first time since 2008, in 2017 quota revenues are above pension expenditure. Those increase to 5.36 % and expenditure to 3 %. With a million affiliates less 2017 contribution revenues are historical record, 109,100 million euros. And why is that? Also for quality employment, because the share of the general scheme of employees, which is the strength of the system, increases to 6,14 % and the members to 4,2 %. Do you know why it's the difference? Because the average contribution base with the best wages is rising by 2 points in Spain. Your Honor, the good news is that for the first time in a long time there is a turning point and the social security deficit is beginning to fall. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u110	Thank you. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carmen ROCÍO CHOLO PEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY SUPPORTING THE PENSIONS IN 2 MONTHLY EUROS KEEP YOUR POWER PURCHASING? [[File number 180/00513]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u111	She also asked for the Minister of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Mrs Carmen Rocío Cuello Pérez. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u112	Madam Minister, do you maintain that by raising pensions 2 euros - as I have here - the month remains its purchasing power? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u113	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, Mariano Rajoy's government, of the People's Party, chose a way out of the crisis, which was not just any, was a social way out of the crisis, supporting the two most vulnerable groups in 2011, the unemployed and the pensioners. That's why he decided to raise his pensions from the very beginning. Plus, he made three big decisions. The first, raising pensions, raising them every year, because for the first time in our entire democracy we had found frozen pensions in Spain, and the last socialist government did. That was an attack on the pensioners, but above all a break in the Toledo Pact. It did so, secondly, by rejecting the rescue of Spain, because otherwise our country would have had to do what the countries in our environment who asked for the rescue: to lower pensions by between 15% and 40%, as did Ireland, Greece or Portugal. Thirdly, change the economic policy that maintains the pension model and promotes economic growth and job creation. That is why the system is more secure today, because Spain is leading economic growth in the euro area and, ladies and gentlemen, it is also leading the creation of jobs in the euro area, something nobody imagined in 2011 with the socialist government. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u115	Mrs. Cuello, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u116	Minister, tell the truth: With Mr Rajoy's mandate the pensioners are increasingly poor and have lost purchasing power yes or yes, because of his and his Government's fault. Last Wednesday, in attendance, he assured that the pensioners had maintained their purchasing power thanks to the annual increase of 0.25 % in their budgets. To make up his accounts he included in his power point the rise in minimum pensions approved by a socialist government, that of Zapatero, and drew some data that did not correspond to his management, but that were the fruit of the socialist government. For five years, 2 euros has been raising pensions to those pensioners who dare to say that they have not lost purchasing power, 2 euros in their pension of January, when in this same month the rent of the house, the pharmaceutical copayo, the rise of light and the price of food is much higher. Every day you follow in the ministry pensioners are poorer, that's the reality. Its reform of the 2013 pension system condemns more than 9.5 million pensioners to the most absolute poverty. Its revaluation of 0,25 %, outside the social dialogue and the Toledo Pact, means a constant loss of the purchasing power of the pensioners, 8 % from 2011 to 2017. I ask you again, since you haven't answered my partner: What about the sustainability factor? Explain clearly to the citizens that a considerable loss of their pension will result. Say it, Minister, because you can't keep going that way you're going. Help the pensioners, lift the veto on that initiative that we presented with other political forces in this Parliament and repeal the 2013 pension reform. Socialists refuse, we oppose maintaining a reform that dismantles the de facto social protection system. You talk about trust and tranquillity to today's pensioners, and I tell you that you are rather in hysteria since you received that letter with the rise of your pensions. I just agree with you on one thing, when you say we have one of the best social security systems in the world. Well, don't charge him, Minister. You are responsible for ensuring the adequacy and sustainability of the pension system. Thank you very much. [[Applause.-Various ladies and gentlemen: Good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u117	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u118	Thank you, Madam President. We agree on what is important, Your Honor; we agree that we have one of the best pension systems in the world and that, moreover, as a society we wanted this exit from the crisis to be with the pensioners from the first minute. That is why I said it, and I said it as a Spanish pride, not as a government. From 2007 to 2017 the Spanish pensioners have maintained the purchasing power and their ability to rent, it is true, thanks to the effort of the rest of the society, and we have to continue to work for more and better pensions in Spain every day. We want to do this with the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen, but this great reality that is the maintenance of purchasing power has made it possible for the poverty risk rate between the over sixty-five years to be halved from 2012 to 2017, from 17% to 6.3. That is why the OECD has told us a few days ago that the income of pensioners is higher than the country's average by 6%, when in the rest of the OECD countries it is 7% lower. We are in a great country and we have to work for our elders; I hope the Socialist Party is there too. [[Mrs Hernanz Costa: 2 euros]] Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u119	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN OF IRENE MARIA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE VICE-President CONSIDER THAT SALARIAL DISCRIMINATION IS A MATTER IN WHICH HER GOVERNMENT MUST BE MADE, OR DOES 'N' BE MADE IN IT'? [[File number 180/00505]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u120	She also asks now the Minister of the Doña Irene María Montero Gil, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u121	Thank you, President. Does the Vice-President consider that wage discrimination is a matter in which her Government must get involved, or rather 'let's not get involved'?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u122	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u123	This Government is committed to equal opportunities and equal pay until the end. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u124	Mrs. Montero
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u125	Thank you, President. Mrs Báñez, I am grateful to you for answering the question, just as I am grateful to Mr Catalá for taking the chestnuts out of the fire to the Vice-President, who is to whom I was addressing this question. Ms. Sáenz de Santamaría has been unanswered by a question in the government's control session since October; my partner, Noelia Vera, did not want to answer about Spanish Radio. I don't know what fear you have of 'We Can Unites' but the vice president doesn't answer, the non-face vice president. [[Applauds]] It is inescapable that the Vice-President of the Government does not want to talk about a wage gap and we must now do so with half the People's Party outside the Chamber, not by my parliamentary group, but by the women in this country, the millions of women in this country who are suffering it in their pockets. [[Protests]] Let's get on with it. I would like you to agree with me that a country is not democratic if half of the country is not guaranteed equality in that country, as is happening to women right now. And you have done nothing to close the pay gap. I am going to make some proposals, which we have already tabled here, which you have opposed or vetoed, and I want you to explain why you are opposed to these measures. Two laws to increase the amount of pensions - vetoed by you -; a law to make paternity and maternity leave equal and non-transferable - vetoed by you twice, once on 8 March, with that shame -; an initiative to make children's schools from zero to three free years - voted against -; a budget initiative to finance 100 percent of the dependency law - voted against -. [[Applauds]] Let's see if the law of retributive equality that we're going to bring soon is voted for by you. But you know what I think? That you do not want to get involved in this issue, nor do you want us to get involved, because you would not like half the population to stop sweeping floors, stop scrubbing houses and shopping and defend a different Spain with rights and without you in government. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, the women of this country, Minister, have taught us to the new generations that if we do not get involved nobody will do it for us. So, strike on March 8th, think about the situation of women in this country, because maybe you're ashamed of what you're doing, keeping the pay gap at 24%. And tell the vice president to face it. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u126	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Montero, the Rajoy Government's commitment to equal opportunities and equal pay for men and women is total, and I tell you with facts, beyond words. Today there are more women than ever working in Spain, 8.5 million women, and the wage gap is at historical minimums, below the European average -7 points below Germany and 6 points below the United Kingdom -. [[Protests]] That is the reality of today in our country. [[Mrs. Montero Gil takes her hands to her head]] And I agree with you: We must continue to work, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Mrs Montero, you are very dignified today and come to defend women with strength. I would have liked to see her defend women when her secretary general insulted a journalist by calling her a sexist and calling her in some way she should have avoided. [[Mrs. Montero Gil: Don't be ashamed!-Applause.-Mr. Iglesias Turion makes negative signs]] Mrs Montero, what your secretary-general did is a shame, but what you did is quite cowardly and detest them also in today's claim. We work for women always, with more employment, with less wage gap and also pursuing, through the Labour Inspectorate, those who fail the law, because equality is respected, but the law also has to be respected in this country. [[Rumors]] Look, the Labour Inspectorate has done more than 37,300 actions between 2012 and 2017, with the increase in infringements on an annual basis of 8 % and in the last year there has been a 60 % increase in fraudulent conduct and, therefore, the penalties imposed by the inspection. In addition, in August 2013 we launched the fraud box, to denounce irregular conduct, and 5% were denounced in relation to equal pay, something in which the inspection works professionally and independently. And we continue to work in the social dialogue every day for women, for equal opportunities, for the fight against discrimination, for equal pay. And you just do demagogy and here you don't face it every day, as you should. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u128	Thank you. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF LUCIA MARTÍN GONZALEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY POWDER IN MAREA, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THE CONTAMINATION IS THE COUPLE OF THE MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS OF BARCELONA And MADRID? [[File number 180/00503]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u129	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u130	Thank you. Does the government believe that air pollution is the fault of the municipal governments of Madrid and Barcelona?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u131	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, air quality is an issue of utmost concern from an environmental point of view, from a public health point of view, something which this government gives the highest priority to. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not - this is much more serious - that the Government should give its opinion, as it put it in its question. It is a matter of being clear who has competence in air quality and who is responsible for it and for meeting their obligations to citizens. We are not going if at this point in his party, which rules in Madrid and Barcelona, they have not found out that, according to the distribution of competences existing in Spain, the management and control of air quality corresponds to the municipalities. In any case, the Government is providing solutions to reduce soil, water and air pollution as much as possible, filling the gaps and neglect of other responsible administrations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martin, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u134	Madam Minister, a week ago the European Union drew attention to its government by demanding concrete action to reduce pollution, which, I do not know if it knows, according to a recent report by the European Environment Agency, causes 24 000 premature deaths a year throughout the state. And you, instead of taking on your responsibility and highlighting the different measures that the Madrid and Barcelona municipalities have already put in place two years ago, remained so broad that they were the competences of the cities and that to see if they took it seriously. Perhaps you should talk to one of your party partners to see if they agree a little, because, do you know what the president of the Community of Madrid, Cristina Cifuentes, said, when in 2015 the mayor of Madrid launched the protocol against pollution and announced restrictions on the movement, parking and speed of vehicles? Well - damn hemerotheque - Cifuentes said they were exaggerated measures. He didn't seem too worried about the air quality of the people who live here in Madrid. So, what are we left with, Minister? Its disastrous management has led Spain today to be the leading country in environmental infringements throughout the European Union. They only know how to be leaders in what embarrasses citizens. Meanwhile, the Government of Madrid implements the thirty measures of the Air Quality and Climate Change Plan and in Barcelona, thanks to the Air Pollution Action Plan, we have strengthened public transport, we have changed taxation to favour cleaner vehicles, we have defined a low-emission zone to restrict the circulation of vehicles that pollute the most. Therefore, if you want Madrid and Barcelona to contaminate less, as the European Union is telling you, do something, too. For example, in the metropolitan area of Barcelona they can start by reversing the 46% cut accumulated in the last seven years in investment in public transport. You'll see how that allows us to lower rates and let people take the car less. Or review the taxation of the most polluting vehicles, which also have competence to do so. His Government, a minister, had practiced and practiced a systematic policy of harassment and overthrowing the municipalities of change and yet had not been able to stop their progress; a policy of David against Goliath in which he did not need to remember who won at the end. So I'll see you in 2019. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u135	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u136	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you know that in Spain we are not facing a generalised problem of air quality, that the number of infringements is reduced. Non-compliance with air pollutants is a problem confined to specific geographical areas. But it is a very important problem, and it is because the main areas of non-compliance in Spain are Madrid and Barcelona, where, by the way, millions of Spaniards live and where, I remind you again, they govern their party and its confluences. You must be aware that you put millions of people's health at stake. On those figures that you have given you have responsibility. It's in your hands to fix the problem in these two cities. Air quality is the competence of the municipalities. The Government is providing solutions, but to help them comply with their responsibilities. On 30 January the Government presented in Brussels the information given by municipalities and autonomous communities at a meeting that had previously been held and at which we presented the National Air Quality Plan, approved by the Government on 15 December in its second version, with 276 million euros and 52 measures. But the government has also invested more than EUR 12 billion in renewing the fleet of vehicles with cleaner models and more than EUR 2 billion for energy efficiency in buildings. But, Your Honor, they assume their powers, for that they are in the municipalities of Madrid and Barcelona, to manage their powers. And worry as we worry, do not profile: they govern the quality of the air we breathe in Madrid and Barcelona. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u137	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIAN BEITIALARRANGOITIA LIZARRALDE, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT ATTEND THE EXPERTS WHO ARE PURSUANT TO PARALIZING THE RECORDING WORKS OF THE PANTANO DESA-YESA THAT HAVE GENERATED ALARM IN THE CITY OF THE ZONE BECAUSE OF THE LAND CORRIMINATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN PRODUCED, WHO DO NOT TERMINATE TO CONTROL FOR THE MOST MONEY THAT THE MINISTRY IS INVITED TO TRY TO FRENCH THEM? [[File number 180/000500]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u138	Question by Mrs Marian Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u139	Good morning. Minister, are you going to attend the government to experts who ask to paralyse the regrowth works of the Yesa swamp?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u140	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the regrowth of the Yesa reservoir is a very necessary work, both for the water supply to the population for irrigation and for controlling episodes of avenues that create serious environmental problems and also for the safety of many people. The project is progressing well with all the security guarantees, solving the technical problems that have arisen during the execution of the works. Readings are made weekly to monitor the behaviour of the slope, a more periodicity than necessary. Also, detailed and public reports are made every semester, which can be consulted by any citizen on the website of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation. Your Honor, Spain, in addition to being a great nation, is one of the countries with the greatest experience in the construction of hydraulic infrastructures and has great professionals and technicians who meet all the safety requirements and guarantees set out in Spanish legislation according to international standards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u143	It is clear that you have not answered me and, although you have not said it now, you are often committed to making us believe that allegations of lack of security accompanied by requests for the stoppage of works until independent and reliable studies are not prudent and create social alarm. The truth is that we are knowing what is happening with this work and reassures us; less the citizenship that lives in the area. For the first time, the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation has recognized that without future and important additional works on the right side the reservoir of Yesa cannot be filled for safety reasons. That is, either large amounts of public money are still being spent without the certainty that this will be the solution, or we are faced with a pharaonic work that will end up useless but having generated multiple affections. This is at the back of the Navarra authorities, of the localities in the area, who learn from the press of the last award to try to retain the right side without the safety coefficient of that side having been realized. The fact is that this work began without the necessary prior studies even though it was an unstable area, which continues to deny the much-needed independent assessment of the situation as they strive to bury more and more money in a work that, far from improving the situation, has only increased insecurity in the area. It is a work that presents practically insurmountable technical problems, something that they refuse to see, engaged in their construction effort, following the philosophy that everything can be arranged with money, when they know that in Yesa doubling the capacity the reservoir involves doubling the risk of rupture of the dam, which could immerse under water, for example, to Zangoza, if that rupture occurred, in just twenty minutes. But, of course, what can we expect from those who have made the construction of large infrastructures their particular business, with the creation even of plots for the award of works, a corruption that also plans on Yesa, as Mr Correa says, who seems to know enough about that. Stop multiplying the budget by five to bury it in cement, as they have done so far. Listen to institutions and neighbourhoods, stop the works and make a serious and independent study, as the Government of Navarre is going to do, to which there is no alternative but to do so themselves in the face of their repeated refusal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u144	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u145	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, there are many people who will benefit from Yesa's regrowth. In addition to ensuring the ecological flow of the Aragón River, which is good for all Spaniards and the lamination of avenues, which avoids flood risks, the new infrastructure will supply more than 800 000 people from Zaragoza and its surroundings and will consolidate 100 000 hectares of irrigation, a very important activity to fix population in the territory. The works of execution continue at the planned pace, reach 94% of the body of the dam and the forecast is that the total of the work is completed by the end of 2021. To ensure safety, 400 checkpoints have been installed that allow you to have accurate knowledge of how the infrastructure is responding at all times. In addition, only 79 topographic observation points and 24 inclinometric tubes are installed to monitor the movements of the right side. State-of-the-art instruments are used and the information obtained from the checkpoints is interpreted by external experts and is made public with complete transparency, as I have mentioned earlier. All the analyses carried out following the execution of the emergency works on the right side confirm that there are no significant movements, but, Your Honor, neither in this nor in any other infrastructure will the Government spare money nor to ensure maximum environmental guarantees or to ensure maximum safety guarantees. These are works that endure, that benefit many people and, by the way, nothing that is done is unknown to the Navarra government. Therefore, Your Honor, the best thing you and your quadripartite can do is let the technicians do their job, avoid infusing fears among the population... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHY ARE THE BUDGETARY COMMITMENTS OF THE STATE COVENANT AGAINST GENERAL VIOLENCE NOT COMPLETED? [[File number 180/00514]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u147	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u148	Thank you, President. Minister, the truth is I don't know why I have to ask you a question about this issue to enable 200 million against gender-based violence. There is a state pact voted by all and adopted in this House and there is a parliamentary resolution of the Socialist Group adopted unanimously and also voted by you. Why has an extraordinary credit not been granted in the decree-laws of 29 December on this matter? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u150	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by recalling the last woman murdered in Granada at the hands of her husband. From here our condemnation and our most sincere support for their families and friends. You know very well that the fight against gender-based violence is our priority for the Spanish Government, because violence against women simply destroys one of the essential pillars of our model of coexistence, which is equality. The Government's commitment to the State pact is therefore maximal, as it has always been. We have been engaged in the fight against gender-based violence when we have had government responsibilities and when we have not had government responsibilities we have always worked and been committed to the fight against gender-based violence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u151	Mrs. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u152	Madam Minister, a good way to begin the answer to this question would have been to apologize. A week ago a British minister arrived two minutes late for a control session and resigned. You, even if you told us today that you were passing the decree-law, would be forty days late. The state pact must be complied with, Minister, but not because the Socialist Group is making an implacable opposition, which we will continue to do. Or are we going to have to be making requests for extraordinary appearances, extraordinary parliamentary resolutions and questions in plenary for each of the points of that pact? Every day that passes, Minister, is a day of delay for public administrations to have the money to push policies that end this scourge. Autonomous communities and municipalities are waiting for this money. Every day, Minister, we lose the opportunity to put in place new protection policies, new policies of reparation for victims, new prevention policies, new policies of protection against sexual assault. Every day, Minister, we are taking away resources from victims and potential victims. Madam Minister, this $200 million is an emergency and we are not going to stop complaining about it. Therefore, approve them as soon as possible because every passing day we lose opportunities. Minister, a state pact is being implemented. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u153	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u154	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the first commitment of the Government of Spain is to give priority to the State Pact against Gender Violence. We gave him priority in the investiture debate and in the Conference of Presidents. The second commitment is to achieve unity in order to build and defend this pact of state, because in unity is where we engage the whole society in the fight against gender-based violence. The third commitment is action. The Government of Spain proposed in this House, through the State Observatory on Violence against Women, 600 measures that were included in the subcommission for the State Pact. We met the deadline for ratification of the report and the observatory unanimously approved on 15 December the pact that emerged from this House, which we unanimously ratified on 27 December with all the Autonomous Communities. And there we promised that, first, it would be in the General Budgets of the State and then, if there were no General Budgets of the State, it would be launched within the first three months of the year. I'll tell you more. The commitment of the Spanish Government to violence is clear: in the 2017 budget we have allocated 266 million euros to the fight against gender violence in all cross-cutting ministries and the Government Delegation for Gender Violence has had the highest budget in its history, 31 700 000 euros, 4.5% more than the Socialist Party's 2011 budget. Therefore, the pact is born with the firm commitment of 1 billion in five years and we will devote the financial resources for the implementation of these policies. But I'm still going to tell you something else. The State General Budgets are the most useful tool for citizens and a responsible Government to implement the commitments made with citizens. So... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u155	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA TERESA ANGULO ROMERO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE RESULTS IN DONATION AND TRANSPLANT OF BODIES REGISTERED IN SPAIN IN 2017? [[File number 180/00517]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u156	Question by Mrs María Teresa Angulo Romero, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u157	Thank you, President. Spain has one of the best welfare systems in the world, a system of health and social protection that heals and cares and that has been possible thanks to the joint effort during the last forty years of citizens, professionals, organizations and administrations, demonstrating their strength even at the most difficult times. If there is a clear example of this excellence, it is the National Organization of Transplants, a model of solidarity and equality among internationally recognized Spaniards, which in 2017 has broken records in number of donors and in transplants made - more than 5200-, turning Spain into a world leader in this field. But beyond the figures, which are very positive, if anything worth highlighting in the Spanish transplant model is that it is a clear example of cohesion between Spaniards and of what that unity and cohesion offers us; in this particular case, nothing more and nothing less than health, life, which is the most precious good we have. Minister, having a national health organization that allows an organ of a citizen of my land, Extremadura, hours later may be giving health or life to a citizen of yours, Catalonia, or vice versa, is a clear example of our achievements as a country and something that would be incomprehensible if someone wanted to give up. The success of our system lies precisely in the coordination between professionals and hospitals of all the autonomous communities of Spain, which has managed, as I said at the beginning, to close 2017 by exceeding for the first time the figure of 5000 transplants, something unthinkable not long ago. An example, therefore, of what together as Spaniards we can achieve and of what to learn and even extend to other areas of our society. That is why, Minister, in addition to congratulating you on the success of the National Transplant Organization, I ask you: How does the Government value the results in donation and organ transplants achieved in 2017? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u158	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u159	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the figures of organ donation and transplantation registered in Spain for 2017 are the best in our history, are figures of excellence and, therefore, historical record numbers that have placed one more year in our country, and therefore in our model, as world leaders and referents and where we have already held twenty-six years of leadership. Only in 2017 have we hit six records. First record, we have exceeded the figure of 2000 organ donors, that is, 46.9 donors per million population, which is 30% more than three years ago and more than double the average obtained in the member countries of the European Union. Second record, we have exceeded the 5000 transplants, which translates into 14 transplants every day, highlighting the peaks achieved in the kidney, liver and lung. Third record, we have reached the figure of 78,291 bone marrow donors, almost twice the donations we had planned, allowing us to reach the overall figure of 360 000 bone marrow donors and to reach the target of 400 000 by 2020. Fourth record, we have reduced the waiting list for a transplant by 11%. Fifthly, 87% of families have said yes to the donation at the time of the death of a relative and this means that we have increased by 3% the families that say yes to the donation. And the sixth record is that we've increased both cardiac arrest donations, 16% more, and brain death donations, 6%. These six records have been made possible thanks to the generosity and solidarity of all Spaniards, the vocation and dedication of all health professionals, the exemplary functioning of the National Organization of Transplants, an essential asset in the Spanish brand, and the priority given by this Government to our donation model. However, far from conforming, we continue to work to ensure that the Spanish remain the citizens of the world with the most options to access a transplant. One way to achieve this is that we are immersed in the 50/22 Strategy, with which we intend to make possible the 50 donors per million population and the 5500 transplants in 2022. This is our commitment and we will continue together, sure, beating records again. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u161	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent appeal by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the process of reforming the common agricultural policy which is open within the framework of the European Union, as well as the position of the Government and the negotiations on it. For your defence, Mr. Gómez-Kingdom Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u162	Good morning, Members of Parliament. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, Madam President. We are bringing the common agricultural policy to debate, a fundamental issue for the future of our people in the field. [[The Lord]] And we must say this, for starters, loud and clear: with the CAP negotiations, which will mark the period 2020-2027, we are definitely playing the future of two key sectors in our country, agriculture and livestock. We play in these months that enter the future, the very existence of our rural world and, therefore, the balance of our society as a whole. But what are we talking about, so that citizenship can understand us when we talk about the CAP? We are talking about a policy that accounts for 38% of the entire Community budget. We are talking about a budget of 43,996 billion for the Spanish State for the current period 2014-2020. In order for us to understand this, we are talking about a state, a government that has systematically cut its support for the rural world when 75% of the average annual budget for Mapama comes from the CAP. And there goes our first lawsuit. The enormous importance of these figures justifies the fact that we are not being robbed of this debate, and justifies the need for the reform of the CAP to be discussed and approved at parliamentary level, both in its negotiation process and in its final outcome. But let's see where we're going from. In our view, the CAP is a highly delegitimised policy. It lacks legitimacy in the sector and in society as a whole. The results of the European CAP consultation clearly indicate the way forward for the relegitimisation of the common agricultural policy. The application of the CAP is radically unfair, especially its application, Minister. It is unfair in the general distribution of aid, but also in the distribution between sectors and between territories. There are clearly winners and losers of the CAP. The CAP is a good business for a handful of large companies and for some rent-earning landowners, who live from public aid on agriculture's behalf. Their CAP model is a model for the powerful. The Government of Spain strives to represent large companies and landowners other than agriculture and leaves aside the interests of the majority of producers. The agricultural model of my country, Galicia and the whole of the Spanish State, and the European agricultural model have been sustained for centuries on small family farms, people who live from their work, who have produced and who produce quality food, who care for the natural environment and who have given and gives life to the rural world. We do not need makeup, Madam Minister, but a profound transformation of the common agricultural policy. In our view, the CAP must basically address four major challenges. Firstly, it must support small and medium-sized farmers and farmers and cooperatives as the best policy we can implement to have a rural living. Secondly, the CAP must have the capacity to influence the food chain by providing stability and weighting to farmers and farmers, guaranteeing prices and responding to the demands for healthy food and food sovereignty. Thirdly, it must support the transition to a productive model consistent with climate change and assess the enormous role of the rural world in challenges such as desertification, firefighting and the care of the natural environment. And fourthly, the CAP must strengthen rural development policies and boost a sustainable and proximity economy. Faced with that, we have seen in recent months what your model is, Minister: not a single new idea about the future of the CAP, that nothing changes so that everything remains the same. Madam Minister, the difference between your proposal and ours is that we are in completely different models, I would say even antagonistic. The big companies you defend are not the farmers, the farmers and the livestock we talk to every day. This is a debate of models and also of sovereignty and how this sovereignty is addressed. You can tell us that our proposals are inapplicable, revolutionary or demagogic, but we and we tell you that our proposals are the ones that put the countries in our environment into action. We ask them: why do they not abandon, as they are making countries of our environment, the path of the exclusive defense of the interests of the powerful? I'm going to ask you four questions. Why have France, Germany or Portugal implemented the redistributive payment to the first 30 hectares and their Government has not done so? Why, for example, does Italy cut aid to 50% from EUR 150 000 and in no way pay aid above EUR 500 000, whereas Spain does? Why, in countries such as France, Holland and Portugal, are almost all the collectors self-employed in agriculture and not as much farmers as there are in this country? And why, finally, twenty-three countries already apply modulations and limitations on the top of aid and Spain does not do so? The European Union, Minister, recalls that it is the Member States that are solely responsible for the decisions made in the distribution. You know very well that the states have the flexibility and the capacity to develop the implementation of the CAP that our field needs. Why do they continue to consolidate injustice in the countryside and in our rural world day after day? [[Applauds]] Let's finish this first part with a series of cases that seem symptomatic to us and that we would like you to answer us why you think they happen. Can you explain to us, minister, why Concha, a Galician herd with sixty cows in milking, which produces in ecological terms, takes a poverty of the CAP and, in front of that, Valle de Odieta, the company promoting the macro-grape of Noviercas in Soria, charges 607 888 euros every year? That's his farm and livestock model. Can you tell us why Carlos, forty-one years old, with 17 hectares of fruit trees in conversion to ecological, collects 0 euros of the CAP and, in contrast, the company Agralsa, with domicile here, in Madrid, in the street Princesa number 20, company responsible for the management of the agricultural properties of the Alba family, collected, in 2016, 1 009 000 euros? Can you tell us why Servando, fifty-two years old, with 13 hectares -7 of irrigation -, production of ecological pistachio, does not reach 1250 euros of basic payment of the CAP and, against this, the company Complejo Agricola S.A., of the Domecq family, collected, in 2016, 4,596,000 euros of the CAP? Your application of the CAP, Minister, is radically unfair. Its implementation of the CAP is a CAP of winners and losers. Your model is a model of subsidy to the great today and hunger tomorrow, and as you look elsewhere, our farmers, our farmers what they want, what they demand is to live from their work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. The defence of the interests of the agricultural sector before the Community institutions is a fundamental line of work for this Government, for all the governments of the People's Party. This is what we did in 2011 and we are doing in the negotiations for the future common agricultural policy beyond 2020. Our aim is to ensure a stable level of support for our farmers and livestock without forgetting the importance of the market to ensure the sustainability of a sector from which about 70% of income comes. This Government considers it important to show from the early stages of the discussions on the future CAP a united front, in order to defend the permanence of a strong CAP, well adapted to our needs and sufficiently equipped for the next multiannual financial framework. Our ultimate objective, as I said, is to continue to ensure adequate stability conditions for our agricultural sector. This involves making the necessary adjustments to the current model without a break in it. We believe that direct aid must continue to play a very important role in the maintenance and stability of farmers' incomes. I would like to make it clear from the outset that we will support the fact that they continue to be fully financed by the Community budget, trying to prevent a renationalisation that would break or at least harm the single market. Co-financing is a red line that Spain will not accept. All this, without forgetting to strengthen the position of producers in the food chain, as we have been doing since we arrived at the Government, together with other key aspects for agriculture and the rural environment, such as the need to address the problem of depopulation in rural areas, generational relief, opportunities for young people and women and innovation and knowledge transfer, together with the need for agriculture to also contribute to the fight against climate change and the preservation of the environment, that is, a 21st century field, a 21st century agriculture. On 2 February 2017, the European Commission launched a public consultation on the future of the common agricultural policy, the results of which were presented at the conference 'The CAP, you have the floor', which took place last July. In parallel, in February last year, the Commission published the initial impact study to draw up the Communication on the simplification and modernisation of the common agricultural policy entitled The future of food and agriculture. It was formally presented to the Council of Ministers of the European Union on 11 December. The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment has been involved in the reform process from the outset, working with all those involved in it. The first was to fix the Spanish position through a very participatory process. The ministry organized a conference in Madrid on 27 and 28 March, entitled 'PAC post 2020. Building the CAP of the future', which served as the basis for drawing up a proposal for a Spanish position on a future reform of the CAP. The conference was attended by all the actors in the agri-food sector, who had the opportunity to present their views on the process of simplifying and modernising the CAP. This proposal for a Spanish position was presented and discussed with the agricultural professional organisations and was reached in agreement at the Sectoral Conference on Agriculture and Rural Development on 24 April with the adoption of the proposal for a common position on the European Commission's initiative on modernisation and simplification of the CAP. The Government understood that this common position should be established by means of a sectoral conference agreement in order to strengthen our negotiating position. It is not my position, it is the position of the whole of the autonomous communities and of the whole of the Spanish State. The 28 points of the agreement, taking into account the timing of the debate, reflected the basic principles on which the future CAP should be based in order to meet the European challenges of the next decade. In the past reform we are already moving forward in focusing aid on farms where farming is really taking place, and we want to continue to move forward in this direction, something which seems to be unknown to you. The agreement also reflects the need to provide farmers' incomes with stability, and that is to maintain direct payments. It is essential to continue to maintain funding in line with the challenges we face, putting farmers and farmers at the heart of the CAP. The ministry, in its usual line, will continue to review with the autonomous communities every month, within the framework of the advisory councils, the discussions to be held in the councils of European ministers, and we will also keep the sectoral conference informed, and at the moment when the proposals of the legal texts are known, at the beginning of June we will probably again propose a new sectoral conference agreement - it will be a Spanish agreement - that will serve as a negotiating framework for the ministry. In any case - and I would like to emphasise this - as we did in April last year, this stage will seek to find as solid a common position as possible with regard to the negotiations that begin after the legal texts are presented, and I would like to make this stage clearly different from the one that will follow, once the final texts are adopted by the European Parliament and the Council. It will then be when we have to reach a new agreement establishing how the regulations applied in Spain should be applied within the scope of options left to the Member States, and it will again be the sectoral conference agreement, not the Ministry's agreement. Throughout the whole process, we are working closely, first of all, with the European Commission, since the reform proposals must be based on it, maintaining all the necessary contacts with the highest Community officials in order to transfer our concerns and interests to them so that they are reflected as far as possible in the legislative proposals. We are also working with the rest of the Member States, because, without doubt, our position will be as much or more strengthened as the more support we can add up, for which it will be crucial to find points of contact with our allies. In this task we have a certain advantage, because, as a result of the work of recent years, Spain has a better position and a great prestige today both before the Community institutions and with our main partners in the European Union, and this is crucial to facilitate this dialogue. In recent months, I have met with the Ministers of France, Portugal, the Netherlands, Ireland, Germany and Poland to discuss the future of the CAP, and we are planning more bilateral meetings with Italy and Hungary. The Government has placed Spain on the map of the CAP member states, and all this, as we have done during the previous reform, with maximum transparency and collaboration with the autonomous communities and agricultural professional organisations. In the course of the Council of Ministers on 11 December, the Commission reported on the scope of the communication on the simplification and modernisation of the common agricultural policy. It also set out the expected timetable for the submission of possible draft legal texts containing the final proposals for the post 2020 CAP. The development of the communication by the Commission will be very dependent on the priorities of the European agenda. The Brexit negotiations are influencing the proposed timetable for the post 2020 multiannual financial framework, which determines the date for presenting the legal texts of the future CAP. Once progress has been made in Brexit legislation, the Commission will finally present its proposal for a future multiannual financial framework in May this year. Proposals for regulations for the future CAP could therefore be available in June, preceded by the impact assessment study. In any case, the negotiating timetable makes it very difficult for an agreement on the future CAP to be reached in just a few months before the expiry of the European Parliament's mandate, which would be for practical purposes in March 2019. However, we are prepared for any scenario, provided it is done for the benefit of Spanish farmers and farmers. During the presentation to the Council of Ministers in December and subsequent debate at the recent Council in January, there has been no concrete positioning of Member States, there has simply been exchanges of views, and our position, as I said, has been based on the sectoral conference agreement of last April, although we take the opportunity to ask for more detailed information on the scope of some aspects of the communication. We share the importance that communication gives to the CAP in achieving the main Community challenges and challenges: the need to deepen the climate and environmental aspects of this policy by aligning its objectives with those of COP21 and those of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; the structure of the CAP in the two current pillars; the importance of direct support as a safety net for the maintenance of farmers' incomes; the need to strengthen the socio-economic fabric of the rural environment; strengthening research and innovation; intelligent peoples; promoting the digitalisation and connectivity of the rural environment; the need to promote generational relevance, exploring all possibilities at our fingertips so that this effort ceases to be a common place in our speeches and becomes a reality. This defence of the CAP seems particularly important to us right now. There are many trends in opinion in different areas that call into question the Community's added value. You yourself have just called into question the Community added value of a policy that is absolutely priority for this government; of course, it has enormous Community added value for us. Most Member States have raised doubts about the proposed new implementation model for the CAP, which is in fact the most emblematic initiative in the communication, in the words of the Commissioner himself. This new model will mean a very significant change in the design of the CAP. The role of the Member States in this new model must ensure the common character of agricultural policy. All Member States have asked the Commission for more details on this proposal so that we can actually assess its impact. In any event, to the extent that the communication, as set out in its text, cannot prejudge the negotiation of the future multiannual financial framework and its results, it is difficult a priori to assess its actual scope. However, we reject the co-financing of CAP aid, as I said, because we believe it is a step towards the renationalisation of this policy. I'm finishing up. Following the first discussions on the communication from the European Commission, we met with the agricultural organisations, the Agrarian Advisory Committee, held on 16 January, and the Autonomous Communities, the Consultative Council on Agriculture, held on 22 January, to have a first exchange of views on this document. This will enable us to update the position we reached at the sectoral conference in April. We have a long process ahead and a tight and uncertain timetable, very dependent on other developments such as the Brexit negotiations and the post 2020 multiannual financial framework; the latter will in turn have a great influence on the debate on the future of the CAP. Your Honor, as you have seen throughout my speech, the debate has only begun. We will continue to maintain our commitment to a market-oriented CAP open to international trade, as basic principles to ensure growth and employment in our agri-food sector, a professional, competitive, dynamic, innovative, productive and world leader in many of our products. The Government of Spain will always be open to dialogue and constructive debate in defence of the interests of farmers and farmers in Spain and we will continue to work as we have done so far in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mr Gómez-Kingdom Varela.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u166	Madam Minister, with all due respect, next time you can send us your answers by e-mail, because what we usually hear is actually a series of repeatedly repeated litany and therefore we could already proceed that way. [[Applauds]] In any case, he has not answered the questions we asked him about how there can be so much difference between Concha, Carlos and Servando and the Albas, the Domecq family and the large agricultural companies. Nor has he answered why you are not using the mechanisms already available in the CAP for better implementation of payments, as other European countries are doing. That is what we are questioning, its ability to develop a CAP framework that is more beneficial to our rural world. In any case, I think it's up to us to be proactive. What we propose is that in the negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy, the following principles be integrated: the defence of the model of family, social, sustainable and small and medium-scale agricultural production; the defence of the rural environment through a stronger and more balanced rural development policy within the structure of this new CAP that we are discussing; the deepening and strengthening of mechanisms that allow the transition to a new model of production consistent with the objectives of sustainability and the fight against climate change; the adoption - and this is fundamental - of measures aimed at strengthening the role of women; the strengthening of market regulation measures, so demanded by our agricultural and livestock sector, integrating proposals for transparency and justice in the food chain with effective mechanisms of action in the face of constant price crises; the strengthening of the right of consumers to a healthy and healthy food, accessible to all citizens; and a CAP linked to employment and the maintenance of assets in the rural environment, which means including among the cross-compliance measures the implementation of labour rights of rural workers. Finally, we will ask you to set up a presentation within the Committee on Agriculture, Food and the Environment to follow up this process of negotiating the reform of the CAP. Finally, as we have already put it, we believe that we cannot be robbed of the debate and the decision on our position on the CAP and, therefore, we will demand that the positions defended by the Government during the CAP negotiation process, including its final vote in the Council of the European Union, be subject to debate, consideration and approval in this House. For all this, of course, they will have our support. Minister, get down to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. GómezReino. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. I insist that it is not my CAP, it is not the government's CAP. The Government, as in so many other things, makes its decisions after a broad participatory process with autonomous communities and the sector. The CAP proposal that is being implemented today was unanimously agreed by all the autonomous communities. Therefore, all that you are talking about is not approved simply because no one asked for it, because the Autonomous Communities did not ask for it. Let's go in and do an X-ray of the things they ask for, like redistributive income. If you knew a little bit more about Spanish agriculture, if you came a little closer to the Spanish countryside, you would see that this measure that you are proposing is against professional farmers in Spain; but for that you have to be bothered and know what the agricultural structure of our country is. I insist that it is the CAP approved at the sectoral conference and that what we have agreed with the autonomous communities and the sector is approved. In any case, I thought you had come here to talk about the future, about CAP reform, but you only talk about the past, although talking about the past is also good. The prospects for the Spanish CAP were very bad when we arrived at the government. We turned to a very damaging reform and a tremendously committed budget and we achieved more than €47.5 billion, much more than the figure you have pointed out. Does it offend you that I defend the Spanish agricultural sector? Well, I'm doing it again here today, now and always. For me the Spanish agricultural sector is a competitive, dynamic, innovative, very productive and, I insist, very professional and world leader in many sectors, for example in the pig sector. Your Honor, you say the CAP is delegitimized. For us it is a policy of enormous European value. Five hundred million people are fed through the CAP, five hundred million Europeans. The rural territory is kept alive thanks to a fundamental economic activity, which is agriculture and livestock farming, which makes it possible under the common agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy takes care of the environment, and we will work to make it more and also incorporate climate change in the future. The common agricultural policy allows Europe to be the most important exporter of food, also the most important; it allows our agriculture to be the most environmentally friendly and to maintain the single market. Perhaps it seems to you to be a delegitimized policy; for us it is a fundamental policy to keep rural territory alive. But what matters now for the future is to agree on the new model of the common agricultural policy, and we do so as we have always done, with the autonomous communities responsible for agriculture, for rural development, and with the sector that lives on this, this sector that you so much question, this sector that you want to condemn to a 19th century agriculture, this sector that you want to isolate from the international markets, because you do not even know that 30% of the incomes of farmers and farmers are due to the trade agreements that you vote against. They believe that Spanish agriculture is at times of autarchy, but no, Your Honor, we are world leaders. And from the vocation of this government, from the enormous experience of this government, from the enormous capacity of this government to dialogue with the agricultural professional organizations and with all sectors and with all the autonomous communities, we will continue to defend a common agricultural model and policy that continues to represent an important budget, that has no co-financing, that gives income stability, while we work on the market, because producers receive 70% of the income on the market. But that is why we have to believe in Spanish farmers and farmers. Many times, listening to you, I see that you are far from the countryside. I made him see it already in the past questioning, when we talked about how you wanted to go back to the expropriations of the big farms and take that model back from Venezuela, where you go hungry because there is no proper agriculture. It is not the agriculture we want. We want modern agriculture, where swamps exist and are made to give way to irrigation. Their group also questions the reservoirs, the swamps, which I have just defended because they give rise to irrigation, irrigation which is the agricultural activity that most fixes the population in the rural environment. But for that you have to put on boots and step on the Spanish field. I recommend it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER FOR AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT, ON THE PLANS OF THE MINISTER FOR WATER. [[File number 172/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u170	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, on her ministry's water plans. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u171	President, colleagues, let me begin this inquiry with a sentence that my colleague Paco de la Torre told Mr Montoro yesterday, and that is that the Government is the perfect or imperfect pupil of our education, that student who arrives until the last day without doing his duties and without studying and who intends to get outstanding or complain when he sees the exam note. Why am I saying this? Because when we talk about water in Spain we are talking about the inability of different governments to reach a state agreement on the issue of water, water that we also know is essential for our life, which guarantees that we have agriculture in our country and that we need to live, like drinking water. When we talk about water, we also think about climate change, desertification and all those shortcomings that we already see our country is having. Spain has spent 54% of the last thirty-six years in a drought situation. What does that mean? That this is no longer a situation of exceptionality and that measures to combat these great periods of drought or to talk about the future of water in our country cannot be carried out either by royal decree or by improvisation. That's not the way. Desertification is a reality. I want to show you this picture. [[Shows a document showing four maps of Spain with different colors each]] It is the evolution of aridity in our country, it shows the problem that we will have if we do not take action already on what is going to happen with water. We have to understand that the area of desertification is going to increase and yet we have and have had some governments - because here we have to talk about co-responsibility - that have done nothing or, at least, have not done enough. We can talk about abandonment, we can talk about abandonment, but we need to talk about non-compliance. Europe already forgave us a millionaire fine a few years ago for not working on water. But in addition, at the end of 2016, Europe took us for the second time to the European High Court of Justice, this time for non-planning on waste water. It is a fine which, for those who are listening to us, can rise to or exceed EUR 46 million, in addition to a daily fine which can reach even EUR 200 000 per day. The government is looking elsewhere; that's not what I'm saying, that's what the reality we're having is saying. I say this because the hydroelectric cannon, for example, is not destined for its initial task. The unprotection of the autonomous communities with regard to the overexploitation of aquifers is a reality; no one is talking about that. We do not know why this Water Table has not been convened, a table where we all have to be, where all the autonomous communities have to be, where the technicians have to be and, above all, where we have to be willing to resolve, solve or plan, Minister, what is going to happen with water in our country. Moreover, not having worked on water policy planning has made us have a cost overrun. What was that cost for the bad planning? It can amount to more than EUR 19 billion. They will say: Where does this amount come from? Of various fines from the European Union; of the economic impact of drought in our country which have pointed out various university studies on the subject; of the cost overruns of the desalinators, which were made without planning and control of those costs, which even tripled the initial budgets, or also - and this is why I am talking about the co-responsibility - of that exposure of water which was made in Zaragoza and which three months later broke, and we will have to ask the Socialist Party what happened with all that money. Not planning on water costs us, it costs us a lot to all Spaniards. We also chain, Minister, three hydrological years in drought. The National Drought Observatory, which depends on its ministry, has said that if significant rains do not occur, the forecasts are very negative in much of the territory. I don't know if this will remind you of Mr. Mariano Rajoy's famous statements when he was talking about the price of light and saying it was his fault that it wasn't raining. I understand that the minister will be exulting these days because of the rain and the snow, because something will be happening, but if we only depend on whether it rains or snow, minister, if we do not plan and all we do is dance to the wind to invoke the rain, what we are doing is not only abandoning our country but also abandoning future generations and our territory. Looking elsewhere is something common in this Government, also in the previous governments of other political parties. In some autonomous communities, such as Castile and León and Andalusia, there have been various water restrictions and, above all, the ministry has said that they will continue to suffer restrictions. The saddest fact of all, however, is that tankers have become part of the lives of the citizens of these autonomous communities, tankers on whom their drinking water depends. Is the future of our country really using tankers to solve the problems we have with water? The demand is increasing, Minister. Do you think we are prepared to meet this increase in demand without water planning? Spain, moreover, has abandoned all its hydraulic infrastructures, and I do not say so. Do you know, Minister, that one in three liters is lost by the conduits? Have you estimated how many liters a year that means? Have you valued what economic cost that entails? Have you valued how much water we are losing, that our field and people for their own consumption need, and that due to the misuse or poor maintenance of those infrastructures we are losing? Do you know, Madam Minister, that there are autonomous communities that have not, for example, registered waters dumped into the sea for years? Do you know, Minister, that, for example, in the Valencian Community there are places where clean water is being poured into the sea, that is, water that we have paid for to be cleaned up to reuse it, and instead of reusing it we are dumping it into the sea? It is a fact, Madam Minister, that in the end they make us think and a lot, especially if we compare it with, for example, another country that has water problems, as is the case with Israel. Israel reuses 91% of its waste water. Spain, in general calculations, 8.8%, fluctuates the amount according to the autonomous community. Does that make you think of the ministry that we really have to be responsible and sit down? You have the power to convene that Water Table, you have the duty to tell us all that we sit down to talk about something as essential as water. In point 28 of the Citizens' Investment Agreement with the People's Party, which are not much for the work of fulfilling in all its terms, I put - I will quote it textually: We bet on a process of negotiation and adoption of a national water pact. The truth is that the only sign he has given from that moment until today was yesterday's interview on Spanish Television. I don't know if we all have to congratulate ourselves on bringing an inquiry so that you can put your batteries in and make statements about the water, and suddenly, as if by magic, we have a hydrological plan on the table or that agreement of the water. How long do you think it will take that process, from your creation until we all feel? When is the matter of water going to be taken seriously by the ministry? When are you going to make us all sit down and talk, Minister? I am not saying to do an interview the day before an inquiry on this matter, but the day after. And that is not because we have to bring in an inquiry, although if we are told that the way to discuss many issues that are stuck in this Chamber is to bring in calls for the government to take on another speed, because we will all agree and start bringing in calls every week on issues that we want the government to take forward. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to quote a few sentences from John Fitzgerald Kennedy who said this: Whoever solves the water problem will be worthy of two Nobel Prizes, that of Economy and Peace. He also apostilled that water is the oil of the twenty-first century. We do not ask you to opt for that Nobel prize, no, we believe it is not necessary, but they are responsible and start talking about a good of all and a good that we have to share, and above all plan. It has already become clear on the maps where our country is going and where climate change is going. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u173	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I too have the book of the best speeches in history. But I see that you follow me little and the government's actions less so, you don't even talk to your party mates apparently, with whom we've been talking about water for a while. But, Your Honor, environmental protection and improvement are key commitments of the Government, there is no acceptable economic development without the environment, and green growth is an opportunity for sustained and sustainable development of our resources. The Government works for the well-being of citizens, giving the highest priority to environmental policies. It is one of the most important tasks that we have in our hands, in the present and for the future, because we know that this will improve the quality of life for all. Spain respects its international commitments to sustainable development. That is why in July last year we, together with the rest of the European Union, reiterated our commitment to the full implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda and to achieving its seventeen sustainable development goals. These include ensuring water availability, sustainable management and sanitation for all. In this respect, the Government's action in environmental matters is constant and permanent. The government is fulfilling both at national and European level, and we have laid a very solid foundation for the present and the future. The protection of our environment necessarily depends on the proper management of water resources, because through water management we also protect the environment. Water is a precious and scarce natural resource in Spain, also in the rest of the world. This is a very valuable resource that therefore deserves our full protection. Water is life, and therefore the proper use of water resources must commit us all equally. It is a vital and shared responsibility. This is not a challenge that affects only a few; it affects all citizens in Spain and the rest of the world. In short, it is as urgent as it is universal, of the past, of the present and of the future. In addition, the prolonged drought that we are currently experiencing in Spain, coupled with the consequences of climate change, further reinforces the need for proper water management and hydrological planning. We must be prepared to face these and other adversities. That is why we need to move forward with a long-term vision of properly planned water management that is not improvised on the basis of environmental criteria, efficiency criteria, education and awareness-raising. It is necessary to create tools to deal with the water deficit and it is essential that they have continuity in time to respond to the problems of the present and the future. Your Honor, I will summarise the Government's action on water during the last parliamentary term. Have we made much progress? No, very much, in the management, planning and protection of this vital resource. I will quote, I insist, a summary. First, we gave priority to balanced management and water care. We put an end to the abandonment of planning with something fundamental in this area, planning. Twenty-five watershed hydrological plans should have been completed by 31 December 2009. They weren't, and they weren't, either in December 2011. We failed to comply with Spain's Framework Directive. Spain did not comply, and this is planning matter could have entailed economic sanctions of up to EUR 100 million. But in four years my Government, Your Honor, developed and approved two cycles of hydrological planning, the work of two legislatures. We have regained Spain's credibility in the European Union. They are done, they are approved, and I invite you to consult in the Official State Gazette the 130 000 pages that plan each of the basins that depend on the General State Administration. The water went from a battlefield to a settlement camp. We bet on negotiation, territorial balance and consensus, because these plans also have the greatest support ever achieved in the National Water Council. Secondly, during the X Legislature we run indispensable hydraulic infrastructures. This has been an important investment effort in a context of budgetary restraint, of course, and despite this, EUR 5 billion have allowed us to resume large-scale works that were paralysed and to boost new ones, and I have just mentioned Yesa's in this very situation a moment ago. Thirdly, as far as water quality is concerned, before our arrival in the Spanish Government, it also failed to comply with European regulations on sanitation and purification. We had three infringement files. They could have put hard economic sanctions and are struggling to overcome them, of course, but after a huge audit work that my Government has done on the quality of the waters throughout Spain, on the situation of infringement procedures, we are promoting much-needed infrastructure in the territory. We launched the Growth Plan, growth, competitiveness and efficiency with an investment of more than EUR 12 billion in purification. In this way we support the competent administrations in sanitation and purification on many of the issues you have asked; but, I insist, other competent administrations. Fourthly, we declare 135 river natural reserves with a length close to 2700 kilometers, thus preserving the river sections in better conservation, with little or no human intervention and guaranteeing their maintenance. Never before in Spain had a natural river reserve been declared. Fifthly, and for the first time, Spain established ecological flows in 3220 tranches. Thanks to all this our rivers today are in better condition than six years ago. Sixthly, we have approved flood risk management plans. In January 2016, we approved these plans, which also had a broad process of public participation, and which are a tool that we did not have, but today, a tool that is fundamental to be able to cope with extreme weather phenomena. They are based on three main pillars: improved coordination between administrations, the use of new technologies for proper risk management, and coordination with the hydrological planning of environmental objectives. Seventhly, we are making a great deal of progress in the area of desalination; we are completing the necessary infrastructure to be able to supply desalinated water, working to integrate this resource into the system as a whole. Today it is the desalinators contemplated in the National Hydrological Plan of 2001 - because Spain has a National Hydrological Plan in force - that have been able to supply the Spanish Levant during the last few years, and of course considering in everything above the climate change. Your Honor, climate change was not discovered before yesterday, and the watershed hydrological plans approved by the government already integrate the climate change variable; it is not something that we need to remember. This variable is included in the planning of each and every one of the basins that depend on the General Administration of the State. And eighthly, as part of my Government's climate change adaptation policy in Spain, we have consolidated the PIMA Adapta Plan, in terms of water management and the associated hydraulic public domain, as a tool for achieving the objectives of the National Climate Change Adaptation Plan. In addition, in the last year 2017 we have continued to make progress in the hydraulic field through the following actions: sanitation and water purification, in order to comply with European regulations; investment in river basin regulation and avenue lamination infrastructures; maintenance and maintenance of water infrastructures; management of the water public domain, in particular measures to implement flood risk management plans; we are already working on river basin plans in the third cycle to comply with the European calendar; we are reviewing all special action plans in alert and possible drought in all river basins; we have taken important measures to respond to the very harsh drought; and yes, I am glad that snow is snowing. The management of water through drought plans in the districts of Segura has enabled the mobilization of an additional 350 hectares of cubic meters; the approval of 28 emergency works with an investment of 83 million euros in Jucar and Segura have facilitated it; the concession for the aid to the production of desalted water worth more than 17 million euros and the approval of a royal decree-law that extricates the regents from the payment of the rates and fees of availability of water, which could come to represent an aid that exceeds 53 million euros. All that work puts us in a better position to achieve a great national pact for water to build a genuine policy of inclusive, consensual and solidarity, with a long-term vocation, something especially necessary in a country like Spain, where drought is a recurring phenomenon for which no government is responsible - neither now nor in the past - and water a scarce and unevenly distributed good. In short, this Government has not ceased to work on water resources management and environmental protection, because we are concerned and concerned about these matters; we are responsible for responding. Water management is a priority issue for the Government; we maintain ongoing action to address the problem. Therefore, Your Honor, the achievement of a national water pact, which is on the electoral agenda of the People's Party, is a priority for the Government in this legislature. The aim is to respond to the main challenges of water management in our country, but we want to do so with maximum participation and consensus, because this pact must contain all technical proposals to make a more effective, supportive and integrated use of existing resources. Based on the more than 125 meetings held throughout 2017, we do not intend to improvise water policy. This is a pact - I see it has not followed me - on which I have on numerous occasions announced that we intend to focus on four axes, as a result of the result of listening to so many people. First, attention to water deficits, with a special emphasis on infrastructure, efficiency and water saving, in the modernization of irrigation that the People's Party started in 2002: National Regiment Plan, horizon 2008. Our proposal will be to complete and complete the modernization of irrigation. Secondly, the achievement of environmental objectives: on the one hand, to assist those associated with sanitation and purification; on the other hand, to adopt environmental agreements with greater scope for protection spaces, especially emblematic natural spaces, such as Doñana, Mar Menor, Delta del Ebro or all those that the autonomous communities - the first thing we have been listening to - have put us on the table, and to achieve this we must also make progress in the concertation of ecological flows, which, I insist, was the Government of the People's Party that for the first time introduced it - nobody does it at European level - in hydrological planning, of which, I repeat, there are 130 000 pages that can be consulted in the Official State Gazette. Thirdly, the implementation of flood risk management plans, because Spain suffers from droughts, but also our inhabitants and their goods suffer from the effects of floods, something that to improve the national adaptation to climate change, I insist, we have very much in mind. And fourthly, there is another important package of water governance measures, ensuring that the political and legal commitments made with the European Union are met. After these 125 meetings held in 2017, of the enormous work I have briefly cited, we have come all the way here to work on building. Let us only try this debate on a constructive basis. In any case, both the contents of the national water pact and the way to achieve them are open to debate, and from here I invite you to contribute constructively to it in order to achieve this great pact. Our will is that the whole Spanish territory will find answers to the different needs that are required in the long term. I'm done. As you have seen throughout my speech, Your Honor, this Government has done nothing but deal with and deal with our country's water policy. We are aware of the problems of drought affecting our citizens. We won't stop until we give them an answer. We will continue to maintain our commitment to all Spaniards on such an important issue that it affects us all. We are open to dialogue with all parties, all sectors of society in order to reach agreements that will remain in time, and I have no doubt that the Spanish Government will continue to work in defence of the interests of all Spaniards with works, with deeds, and I invite you - I am obliged to tell you - to follow the action of the Government a little more closely. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u175	Madam Minister, you have spoken about welfare and I understand that in order to have that welfare - I stress it again - you want to invoke that it rains, because that welfare is also the tanker trucks, that welfare is also to avoid the loss of one litre of every three in transport, non-use, because the data are what they are, and although the government lists us all that list the reality is that we have Israel with 95% and Spain with 8.8% reuse. Knowing the hydrological deficiencies that Spain is going to have, knowing the effects of climate change that can occur in our country, knowing the progress that desertification is going to have in our country, talking about water reuse occupies us, and we are very busy. You said that we comply internationally. I agree with you on the part that Europe has forgiven us a millionaire fine, because the government of the Socialist Party had done nothing; that is the reality and so I said in my speech, but what you did not say is that at the end of 2016 - I repeat - they took us for the second time to the Court of Justice of the European Union precisely for the waste water, with a fine that they are telling us can exceed 46 million euros and with that daily fine that can amount to almost 200 000 euros. We agree that water is a scarce resource and that it is life, and I tell you that I come from an island, so you can understand that, as far as water and self-supply problems are concerned, I know enough. We know, and farmers in the area know, that they do not have that water resource by hand; all consumers know. After all, we all know that, Minister. That's why I'm telling you it's everyone's responsibility. You can tell us that there is planning, but the reality is that in this country, as with other areas, they have not stopped patching, and that is obvious. It is true that there are these twenty-five watershed hydrological plans, but what does not exist is that national regulatory framework that collects cooperation between these basins, and also tells how it is managed efficiently and responsibly. It's no use having 25 separate plans if we don't have that one that embraces them and tell them how they have to be managed. We need to work a lot more to educate all our citizens about water efficiency, and about the reality of that scarce good that we have. You have told us about that climate change law or at least I want to talk about it, because you have told us that it is a government commitment to climate change. We and most of the colleagues on the Committee on the Environment and Climate Change when we hear it think that this government is very concerned about this climate change and energy transition law. Regrettably, those of us who are also in the Energy Committee listen to the minister and wonder whether it is the same government or whether the ministers do not speak to each other or whether there is one minister who has will and another who does not. As I say, we refer to the Journals of Sessions, in which you will see that not only do they say totally different things, but that belief is totally opposite. We always come - and I stress always - with a constructive character. That is why what we are asking for - I repeat it again, and we have already picked it up in that agreement at point 28, which is to bet on a process of negotiation and adoption of a national water pact - is that there is a sign on its part, that there is a meeting of that Water Table, that it creates a work table for all, because in the end going alone, Minister, that the government is going to go alone will not guarantee even a national water pact that will ensure that the government who governs will continue with that progressiveness and with that way of working, nor will it go alone guarantee success for our citizens and for their party. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u177	Thank you, President. Your Honor, Spain is one of the countries with the most developed water policies worldwide. You spoke of the millionaire fine and did not mention that Spain no longer has it thanks to the action of the government. I did talk about the clean-up fines and I told him that we did an audit, that we did a Plan Grow and that we are struggling to lift it. I also remind you that it is the competence of autonomous communities and municipalities. In Spain there is planning in the watershed hydrological plans, but there is the Waters Act. It is one of the most developed laws worldwide. There is also the National Hydrological Plan, where watershed hydrological plans are regulated and coordinated. So I invite you to read the national legislation on this subject and to make proposals to modify and refine it, because that is what the national pact for water is about, not to discover water now. The oldest transfer in Spain, the oldest dam in Spain comes from the Romans. I mean, a lot of people before we worked on water. So, at least from my point of view, so many road engineers in history, presidents of hydrographic confederations and governments who have preceded us, my recognition and my respect for their work, because thanks to the work, I insist, since then in Spain today we have water levels that match us with the countries whose rainfall is much higher. This is what has allowed us to have a level of development with an equivalent level of water. But, Your Honor, all basin plans were approved and this means that basin-level plans are organized, existing resources are organized and have environmental objectives for our rivers for the first time in Spain. Spain is not how you tell it, I assure you, Spain is much better than what you tell it. And we have been reporting on this initiative since 2017, presenting the road map to the National Water Council. The National Water Council is the main advisory body on water policy. There are all represented: NGOs, autonomous communities, users, Spanish Federation of Municipalities, everyone is on the National Water Council. Since March 2017, we have been familiar with our road map and have started a process by first convening representatives of the autonomous communities, including local authorities, users, environmental organizations and professional organizations. I insist, 125 meetings. It happens as with the Climate Change Act, we want it to have a vision and a vocation of permanence and we don't want it to be ours, but it's all ours and that requires listening and listening takes time. I would also like to hear your proposals on climate change, reading, as you also mentioned, the Journal of Sessions, and going a little further than inviting people to have no children. I'm sure we'll all come up with much better things about climate change. Not you, but someone in your group does. [[Rumors]] Ultimately, water policy is based on a permanent review, on continuous improvement, and that is why water policy is planned for cycles. Your Honor, I would like to tell you that in Spain the effort made to plan, manage and develop infrastructure to respond to water needs has been successful. Among other things, regarding the last drought, the other day I was reading a report from the Valencian Generalitat, hung on its website, where it said that in the last two years, 2017 and 2016, they had increased the land surface and so far they have not lacked water. In the fifth year of drought it is very difficult to maintain the supplies, but we are doing the best management so that the population does not lack water. I would like to express my appreciation to the Public Water Administration, to the corporate fabric, which has an extraordinary experience and a very high technological capacity that puts us at the forefront of the world. We have our recognition or our reflection - as this government has shown - on the Spanish Watermark, an initiative of the ministry and ICEX to export this know-how. This has strengthened our country's position and made us a reference in water management. Spain - I insist - is better than you understand it. The promotion of hydraulic goods and services, all of them, has served as a platform for promoting the internationalization of our companies and for international cooperation, which is very important in the field of water. We could not do so if we were not among the best countries in the world. We have very powerful water legislation, one of the most comprehensive in Europe. Water management in Spain is based on the use of technologies to which we refer at a global level. Our companies are leading players in technological developments and innovation; they build and manage hydraulic infrastructures, such as the world's largest desalinators, all over the world. The Spanish professionals in the water sector have a great international reputation for their high technical qualification, their experience and the development of effective solutions, and I would like to thank all of them for the work that has brought us here. However, this Government continues to work to continue to provide answers, and as it now has to show with facts that we are dealing with it, I just want to reiterate that we continue to attach great importance to water policy, to environmental policy. We can talk about a national water pact, because of the summary I have made of the Government's action, and we do not need rivalries or confrontations on a subject of utmost importance that affects us all. We need precisely the opposite: to dialogue, reach agreements and a defined consensus among all so that this national pact for water will remain in time for the benefit of all Spaniards. To achieve this, we have its political strength and all the others, as well as all sectors of society and citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to correct the wage gap between men and women. [[File number 172/000101]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u179	We turn to the next item: Urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the measures the Government intends to take to correct the wage gap between men and women. Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about the wage gap between women and men necessarily means making a prior diagnosis of the situation of women workers in the labour market. Year after year the survey of the salary structure of the National Statistical Institute, as well as the survey of the main employment wage decile, published by the same agency, show a clear stagnation in the correction of the wage gap between men and women. The results of this latest salary structure survey on 2015, published in June 2017, show that the average annual earnings of women were 20,051.58 euros compared to that of men, which stood at 25,992.76 euros. [[The lady]] Women earned 5941 euros less on average than men, almost 23%, representing the average annual female wage of 77.1% compared to men. For its part, the survey of wage decillions on 2016 points out that while the average wage of women that year was 1661 euros per month, that of men reached 2075 euros, that is, women charge 414.4 euros less than men's average wage. What is most worrying in any case is how women are at a very high percentage in relation to men within the lowest levels of pay. The same wage structure survey highlights that in 2015 18.2% of women had earnings below or equal to the inter-professional minimum wage compared to only 7.4% of men. The wage decile survey marks a difference of almost 20 points between the percentage of women who had a salary of less than EUR 15 000 per year in 2016 compared to men, 40% of women compared to 20.7% of men. However, the data acquires a more dramatic hue even when the regressions in the correction of the wage gap are observed precisely in these low pay rates, the index that measures the hourly earnings below two thirds of the average hourly earnings. Thus, while in 2014 64% of women had an hourly wage below this index, in 2015 that percentage increased to 66%. Undoubtedly, there are many factors that affect this wage gap, mainly the factors that derive from the situation and consideration of women in the labour market as a result of unequal distribution in care work. The greater precariousness of female employment compared to men, whose expression constitutes wage inequality, is also evident in their lower rate of activity - which has fallen since 2012 -, their lower rate of employment and their higher rate of unemployment. According to the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2017, women account for 46% of the employed, 8,659,100 women working and it is women who mainly perform part-time work, 75% of the total part-time work is done by women and if they have an indefinite contract, almost 82% of women provide this part-time employment. 67% of women in this country have a part-time temporary contract. Precisely, it is these working times and days that are most penalized from the point of view of remuneration and also in this remuneration by type of contract and day the gender gap is observed, a gap that is also noticeable in the average annual gain per occupation, even in those feminized sectors that perform care work. Thus, the 2015 wage structure survey shows that women who work in health and care services have an average annual earnings of less than 24% compared to men who perform equal work; according to the National Institute of Statistics, the wage gap in our country is 23%. This statistical data, which dimension gender discrimination in the workplace, when transferred to the public pension system, widens considerably, reaching this gender gap by almost 38%. Our Constitution proclaims equality as the highest value of the legal system and recognizes it as a fundamental right, and therefore mandates the public authorities to remove obstacles to its exercise. The wage gap is the greatest exponent of the inequality between men and women in the labour market. Its lower rates of activity, lower employment, higher unemployment rates, greater interruptions in employment, all show the difficulty of women in accessing the labour market, their permanence in it, the internal promotion in the labour market, which again and again encounters the so-called glass ceiling. We must necessarily talk about horizontal segregation, with women predominantly in traditionally feminized sectors, and we must also talk about vertical segregation, with obstacles to occupying decision-making positions. Choices to develop professionally in a work system of masculine structure that favors work called productive versus other spheres of life such as reproductive work or caring for others, where women have traditionally been placed. Obstacles that must be removed by constitutional mandate in order to achieve real and effective equality between men and women. It is a question of justice, it is a question of equity and it is a question of quality of life, of the support of our welfare State and of reaching higher rates in our productive system. The Equality Act, with concrete measures to move forward with the elimination of the wage gap, has been truncated by a labour reform that stimulates collective bargaining, a key element in the articulation of equality plans in companies and that deregulates working time, which has led to hourly overtime without cash compensation and part-time hours that hide full-time. They are, therefore, part-time work mainly carried out by women, in many cases unloved, but where they are situated due to their lower bargaining capacity, burdened and penalized by family responsibilities. This reform, coupled with the dismantling of the Unit Act, among other measures, is leading to the expulsion of women from the labour market. After 40 years of massive incorporation of women into the labour market, the time has come - we think now without delay - to adopt decisive measures to correct this inequality, to correct the wage gap. That is why we need a comprehensive, cross-cutting legislative framework that works in all these areas that we have just mentioned, as well as measures in the area of social protection to avoid the effects on women's careers that are reflected in a greater distance between men and women in the pension system. A new regulation of working time that regains the role of collective bargaining, with measures that allow us to assume the time of work responsibility and the time of family responsibility, thus giving them equal value. The conciliation seems to continue to deal exclusively with women, who are charged with the organization of a period of time that must be extended to assume responsibility for their working time and the responsibility for their family time, and this double assumption is not understood in terms of the efficiency of the organization of a limited period of time but is a deficit and injury that results in a lack of availability in their field of work. There is therefore a need for policy support with measures that allow for a leap in co-responsibility in the assumption of family tasks and care, which means giving equivalence to the time of the man and the time of the woman. The State must also assume its share of co-responsibility, articulating a network of social services that caters to dependents within a comprehensive package of family policies, financing returns in the maintenance of the welfare state that today is almost exclusively for women. The achievement of transparency in companies is essential. Support and subsidies for the implementation of equality plans should be recovered and official statistics should be disaggregated into other parameters, e.g. by sex, in order to be able to know the different circumstances that place women in such situations of discrimination. It is very complicated, very difficult at the moment to detect what we call direct discrimination in our labour relations framework for an obvious reason: collective agreements are subject to the control of the legality of the labour authority, so they must be adapted to the labour framework, to the regulatory framework of our labour legal system; however, where is the complexity? What is complicated is the detection of indirect discrimination; those indirect discriminations that are not contained in collective agreements but are contained in labour contracts. It is precisely this obvious reality that there has been a weakening of collective bargaining at sector level to the detriment of collective bargaining at enterprise level. This leads us to the fact that this labour reform that you have carried out has weakened collective bargaining and has had a much greater impact on the precariousness of women in the labour market. [[Applauds]] Where does the pay gap go? The opacity in wages is the main indicator. The wage gap is mainly evident in overtime, where the wage gap reaches almost 80% and in wage supplements at 30%. There are masculinized complements such as that of danger and there are feminized complements that are not remunerated, as can be the one of penosity. In overtime payments, this concept of the wage gap rises to 36 per cent. Therefore, to correct the wage gap, a comprehensive legal framework with specific objectives is needed in the integration of women into the labour market, which removes the difficulties they face when they are in the labour market and remains in the labour market, in their projection and in their need for professional advancement, in order to be able to assume these family responsibilities, for which conciliation and co-responsibility measures are necessary. Removing those obstacles that prevent correction is a question of justice, as I said before, and a question of equity; it is also an economic question, therefore, we are talking about the need for a legal framework and also political will. That is why, Minister, this Socialist Parliamentary Group asks you once again what measures you intend to take to correct the wage gap between men and women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez. The Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I thank you for the tone of your speech and for bringing to this House a fundamental issue for the men and women of this country, which is equal opportunities and, in particular, equal pay. It is not a question that affects only women but it really affects Spain because it has to compete today and tomorrow with the best that it has, with its best strategic asset, that it is people, its human capital, talent. It has to compete with all the talent, that of men and that of women and on equal terms. In addition, we must preserve what our Constitution, our Workers' Statute and the fundamental norms say, and that equal work in our country must be equal pay. Therefore, that the law is enforced and that reality every day is that equality that our laws uphold and guarantee is our top priority. Therefore, Your Honor, go ahead with Mariano Rajoy's one-minute commitment to comply with the law, promoting equal opportunities for men and women and also the equal pay we all deserve. How is that commitment shown by the Government? The best way is to be able to test it and there are the facts and facts to show it. Today, with the Government of the People's Party, there are two data that attest our commitment to equal opportunities and equal pay, there are more women than ever working in our country, 8.5 million, and the wage gap is at least historical, below the EU average. That being said, we must continue that task and continue to move towards that real equality that the law upholds between men and women when it comes to working and having a wage. But, Your Honor, your facts, your data, are quite different when we talk about compromise. It is good to come here, rise to the rostrum and defend equality - I thank you on behalf of the Spanish women - but their policies showed the loss of women's opportunities and the year-by-year increases in their last Socialist government of the wage gap in Spain. Between 2007 and 2011, 1,400,000 women lost their jobs. Less opportunities for women. At the time you were ruling, seven out of nine stops in Europe were Spanish, unfortunately, and the wage gap in the last Socialist government rose by 16%. Therefore, the commitment of both can be tested. I want to keep the positive because you also belong to that Equality Commission that we have in this House. I ask - I am sure you have read the Journal of Sessions in a historical way - that the Socialist Party also has consistency in this. Why am I telling you this? Because the gap and wage inequality in Spain is not a topic of today, which is in historical minimums, it is a topic of yesterday and it will be a theme of tomorrow even if we give the biggest battle to achieve that equality. But you should have had consistency and defended in the past what you stand for today in the present. In 2005 when the Socialist Party was governed and Mr Caldera was minister, a fellow Member, Mrs Quintanilla, presented a non-legislative proposal in the Equality Commission calling for the Government to move towards wage inequality with new measures. In the petitum, first, it called for an assessment of progress; second, it always increased the inspection activity in order to avoid inequalities and to punish, in an exemplary manner, law-abiding companies and, above all, it called for working for such equal pay within the framework of collective bargaining. Do you know what your party did, then in the government? To reject that parliamentary initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that you do not often show consistency in this House. A few years later, in 2010, the Socialist Parliamentary Group put forward a non-legislative proposal in the Equality Commission and asked for a study to understand what was going on with the wage gap in Spain, something we had already requested in 2005. Do you know what the People's Party did? Support her and be with the Socialist Party defending women. Moreover, we take the opportunity to complete our GNP by calling for further progress with proposals to assess not only progress, but to strengthen the inspectorate's action and calling for collective bargaining to play a decisive role in this fight against wage inequality. We support the socialist initiative because we are consistent over time. In 2012, they recommence the legislature by presenting another parliamentary initiative and the People's Party supports it and calls for further work in the areas of the Labour Inspectorate and social dialogue to promote equal opportunities and encourage equality plans in business. Do you know what you did? To vote no to the amendment of the People's Party, because in 2012 they were in the 'no is no'. Ladies and gentlemen, if we share the diagnosis; if we know that the gap and wage inequality is an unfair and harmful reality not only for women, but for Spain, which has to compete in talent; if in the countries of our environment that also suffer it - even some models like Denmark or Sweden - their political forces add up to try to fight for equal opportunities, we are sometimes surprised by what the Socialist Party does in this House. I ask you to make every effort to ensure that what the law guarantees is complied with every day in companies and in the productive sectors. Within the framework of the European Union as the Government of Spain, we are also working to promote equal pay. Action must be taken, but do you know what the European Commission says in its strategic commitment to gender equality 2016-2018? He said that employment was the priority for achieving equal pay and increased participation of women in the labour market. In 2017 we had reason for hope. Why? Because in the last year women's employment has grown in our country in 276,500 new women who have joined the labour market: more women's participation. We have recovered all the female employment destroyed by the crisis: 1,400 000 people who had to leave the labour market at the time are working in Spain today. Today there are 8.5 million women working, the largest number we have ever had in our economic history, and we will continue to bring women into the labour market. We are confident that we can continue to match the opportunities in this country. Last week we heard another important Eurostat data which certifies that Spain has been leading the decline of unemployment throughout the euro area for 50 months and that 42% of Europeans who left unemployment since 2003 were Spanish. The data therefore certify that the Spanish society's efforts to achieve equal opportunities between men and women are extensive. It does not believe that this is the result of chance, because it has been accompanied by measures taken by this Government. It is a new framework of labour relations that makes economic growth strongly translate into job creation for men, but especially for women, and today there are more women working than ever before. Women's employment opened up the recovery there by 2014. Also with other measures we have tried to get women into the labour market by encouraging self-employment, and today, since the recovery, six out of ten new entrepreneurs are women in our country. As for the young people who needed training and work at the same time, today there are 303,000 women who are working through the training and learning contract, more women than men in our country. We have put in place measures to promote the arrival on the labour market, but also its maintenance, making it easier to reconcile work and family life. For the first time we have regulated telework in the 2012 labor reform, we have extended the child care and reduction leave from eight to twelve years and we have increased from two to four weeks, by parliamentary agreement with Citizens, the paternity leave. And we want to continue to do so by approving the 2018 budgets among all of us. Therefore, equal opportunities do, but we have to work for it, with conviction, with coherence, and we have to do it every day. That has made it possible that, just as there are more women working than ever before, we have a historical minimum wage gap. Spain has gone from having a wage gap of 18.7% in 2012 to dropping four points and now being 14.9%. It is the euro area country that has narrowed the wage gap most since recovery and is also below the European average, six points below the UK and six or seven points below Germany. Therefore, the commitment of this government is indisputable, we will continue to work, we are doing so in the social dialogue with new proposals, and we hope that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support it and this time it will be coherent, because it is now in the opposition and it was voting not when it was in the government. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cancela Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I came with a good conciliatory tone, but it is inevitable that I have to answer one of the questions you have raised, Minister. First of all, you spoke on behalf of all the women in this country. I would remind you that this parliamentary group also represents a significant number of women in this country. [[Applauds]] You mentioned Mrs Quintanilla, whom I appreciate very personally and politically - she knows - about an initiative she presented at the time and which we do not accept. But, Minister, if we have finally adopted a law on cross-cutting and comprehensive equality for all women in this country, see if we have listened to Mrs Quintanilla! [[Applauds]] I recommend - I thank you - that you read me the Journal of Sessions. See if I have read that I have seen that in a few days' time there will be a year in which a motion was unanimously adopted in this House which this Socialist Parliamentary Group tabled, the result of an urgent inquiry, where we asked it to take immediate steps to bridge the wage gap between women and men. Moreover, I will read you the contents, because perhaps you have forgotten, as you refresh me the memory. In particular, what we were asking for and you assumed, because your parliamentary group also voted, was a bill on equal pay for women and men, before social dialogue, which for us is important - not just a photo - to guarantee in a real and effective way equal pay for the performance of work of equal value. Where is that law, Minister? You promised to bring that law to this House within six months. It's been a year. So when we talk about noncompliance, let's all be rigorous. We can make the issue of real and effective equality between women and men or the wage gap a matter of permanent reproach. You can continue to oppose the opposition, in this case, by constantly reminding the governments of the Socialist Party, but - forgive me - in the area of equality and in the fight against inequality between women and men I think we have enough to say and the story is there. [[Applauds]] I would like to clarify - in a constructive spirit too, because that is what we are talking about when we talk about equality: building, proposing and resolving, if possible - which you permanently and repeatedly handle Eurostat data: the wage gap has been reduced in Spain by four points because in 2015 it was 18.9 and now it is 14.9. That repeats it permanently, not only you but other members of this government. Obviously, I am not going to say that Eurostat lies because it is true that it does not lie, but it turns out that the wage gap has not narrowed and I will explain why. Because the issue is in the reference measurement unit that Eurostat is taking; Eurostat is taking as the reference measurement unit the gross hourly wage, which does not take into account wage supplements, does not take into account part-time work. Therefore, it is not a real and effective data to make a comparison on the wage gap. [[Applauds]] Please see whether this parliamentary group is involved and works for real and effective equality and against the wage gap which, in this particular area, we have presented in the last part-sessions - in the X, the XI and the XII legislatures - a total of forty-four initiatives and, in particular, in this twenty-six. See if we are concerned and concerned; we work on it as we have always worked and will continue to do so. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to say that in the face of his political inaction - because it is his political responsibility, that of his ministry - this parliamentary group will bring to this House two proposals for legislation in the coming weeks. A proposal for a law to combat the wage gap - and we appeal to the consensus of the majority of the House to be able to reach an agreement - and a proposal for a law on equal work, which is much broader and goes far beyond the wage gap, because there are many circumstances that affect that result: equity, justice and even the very fulfilment of the constitutional mandate. Therefore, there is no excuse for passivity, no excuse for abandoning 50% of the population, which you referred to a moment ago. With their labour policies, Minister, women have endured the worst of the crises, have largely left the labour market and have returned to their homes; those who have remained have a part-time contract, thus feminizing poverty with garbage contracts. Simply be brave and when your Government does not engage in political action do not worry, here is the Socialist Parliamentary Group to bring to the House measures that effectively fight for women. In any case, we always reach out to reach an agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez. To close the debate, the Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the Equality Act that the Socialist Party has made has results: 1,400,000 women who have gone to unemployment and the increase in the wage gap to 16%. Here you have the results of that socialist law so effective for women! [[Applauds]] There are data that cannot be answered. You see the statistics you see, today in Spain there are more women working than ever before, I don't know whether that matters to the Socialist Party or not. Don't lie, look at membership, look at the EPA, look at Eurostat data. Secondly, the wage gap is in historical minima. The last thing I needed to see in this rostrum and in this House, ladies and gentlemen, is for the Socialist Party to question the European Statistical Centre, which compares all countries, which is Eurostat. When they have no reason to criticize the government, they question the numbers. This is amazing. The Government's commitment to women was clear and complete. We have done so in equal opportunities policies through employment, we have done so by promoting equal pay and we have done so by cutting other gaps, Your Honor, such as the pension gap that many women traditionally suffered in Spain. It has been the Government that has launched the maternity supplement, which is that women who have contributed children to society cover up to 15% more in their pension due to the number of children they had and worked at the same time. Your Honor, since 2016, 342,000 women have been receiving this maternity supplement, so in two years the wage gap has fallen by 13%, which is also fair and equitable in our pension model. In addition, we fight fraud intensively. The Labour Inspectorate has done thousands of actions to promote equal opportunities. Its Equality Act, article 43, states that through collective bargaining, affirmative action measures will be put in place to promote equality and access to employment among women. That is what we are doing at the Social Dialogue Bureau - not now, but since November - to improve pay transparency, because we want to combat the wage gap and make situations of disadvantage visible and indeed to establish the diagnosis in collective agreements at all levels. By the way, the labour reform to which you refer is so good that today there is less wage gap in company agreements than in sectoral agreements, and thanks to the prevalence there are more women who are on equal terms, and also promoting proactive equality situations. We have tabled a number of legislative reforms in the Social Dialogue Bureau so that companies are obliged to communicate gender-disaggregated information on the components and amount of remuneration, because, Your Honor, it is sometimes wage supplements that favour the highest wage of men, harming women. We want that to be done by merit, productivity and not by presentism or other complements that harm women. We also want continuous review strategies, wage audits, to be adopted in companies with more than 250 workers. Of course, we want to extend that obligation to register and deposit the equality plans that companies make. We have met twice at the Social Dialogue Bureau, one studying with them the proposals initially made by the Government and the other learning from them about improvements to our proposals. We look forward to reaching an agreement on equal pay in the area of social dialogue soon. I ask the Socialist Party to do less demagogy, to analyse with data its recent history and, above all, to really fight every day for equality of opportunity, which starts with employment, and to improve wage equality in Spain, which is a great national debate not only for women, but also for a country that has to rely on all its talent to compete in a global economy, and in it women are 50%. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, consider the position of the Government with regard to the recent granting of exploration permits to the multinational oil company ENI in the region of Tan Tan, in Morocco, which will support the realization of a prospect that will put all its socio-eco-cosyme into risk. [[File number 172/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u188	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the position of the Government regarding the recent granting of exploration permits to the multinational oil company ENI in the Tan Tan basin in Morocco, which will involve the realization of prospections that will put the entire socio-ecosystem at risk. Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u189	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today I come to represent the vast majority of canaries and canaries that we have said repeatedly and constantly that we are not prepared for oil to pounce on our blessed land. With this responsibility I call on the Government of Spain and, believe me, it is frustrating to have to deal with this issue again after having faced us in the Canary Islands with real giants like Repsol and, in addition, having won them the battle. It is sad to have to go back to this rostrum to ask the Government of the State to fulfil its obligation and defend the archipelago, when it is supposed to be its constitutional duty, inter alia, provided for in its article 45, which obliges the Government to protect and improve the quality of life of the entire Spanish population by defending and preserving its environment. Not at all does this precept with the inaction of the Government of Spain, while Morocco gives green light to a multinational company that will do oil explorations just over 50 kilometers from the Canary Islands, from our islands of Fuerteventura and Lanzarote. We are absolutely accustomed - to say it in some way - to M. Rajoy's government mistreating the Canary Islands, because when it authorized in 2012, through the toxic and lying figure of José Manuel Soria, the search for fuel in our waters, that authorization was given in the Canary Islands but denied it in the Balearic Islands. Only someone who ignores or despises our people is capable of endangering their territory in this way. Our territory, which includes, of course, our sea, the Atlantic blue on which our life depends in the archipelago and which we share with a portion of the African continent known as the Canary Saharan fishing bank, is one of the richest marine ecosystems on the planet, a space with so much biodiversity that one in three species of cetaceans has been spotted there, right in the area where those explorations authorized by Morocco to the multinational ENI will be carried out. How is it possible that Minister Tejerina has not yet come out publicly asking Morocco to give up its efforts to sharpen our seabed? How is it possible, Mr. Foreign Minister, Mr. Dastis, that you did not transfer to the Alaui monarchy a strong rejection by Spain of this serious threat to the Canary Islands? I suppose it will be the same for what we have not seen the President of the Government interested in the more than nine hundred thousand people at risk of poverty in the Canary Islands, because you are supposed to respond to other different interests. We know that Canarias has been a historically forgotten community. And not only that, but they have always given us a subaltern role; by using a terminology that you understand, we have always been treated as an overseas territory. It is true that Europe defines us as an ultraperipheral region, but because of our unbeatable transatlantic location of which we are also proud. From what we are far away, from what we feel far away, is from a central Government that is sensitive to our particularities, responsible for its management and willing to give value to a land that could well have made our entry into the twenty-first century as a pioneer in the renewable energy sector. Experts describe us as Saudi Arabia's clean energy. It is you, driven by spurious interests, who prevent the sustainable development of our people. And, moreover, they do so in complicity with the Government of the Canary Islands, of course, which says it defends us, but which comes out like a shot running to put the Autonomous Administration as a guarantor before a European investment bank to support Redexis, which is a polluting company, which intends to install - you see - in a living volcanic territory, like ours, an underground gas distribution network. In the fight against climate change, that is what is happening to them and what the Canary Islands Government supports! [[Applauds]] At this point, if the Canary Islands has not sunk into an ocean of pollution it has not been because the island leaders, in connivance with the powers of the State, have not tried to do so because our people, our people, have struggled for their land with nails and teeth. We did so in 2015 against the Popular Party and the oil company Repsol, which ended up giving up in its attempt to plunder our funds in the face of the determination of our people. And it was not the first time, because already in 2014 the binomial Popular-Repsol Party lost in the Constitutional Court the same battle, which, yes, started again in 2012, because for that if you are constant, to defend those interests. By the way, the current president of the Canary Islands, Fernando Clavijo, succeeded Paulino Rivero in the fight against prospecting. Well, look, his name, Fernando Clavijo's, appears in several conversations that held two of the heads of the Púnica plot, Alejandro de Pedro and Juan Antonio Alonso; conversations about how good it would be for the multinational and for the Rajoy government that Clavijo breaks, in the race for the presidency of the islands, to Rivero. On 27 February 2013, Mr. Clavijo stated in the press that he was in favour of the polls if they were given with environmental guarantees. Look at you, you are the same words we heard you say last week with the Foreign Minister, Mr Dastis, at the door of this new crisis. Don't worry, we're going to have environmental guarantees. Who do you want to cheat on? What do you mean, safe prospecting? There is no safe prospecting, there is no possibility of stabbing the sea bed without causing damage to the life it sustains; it does not exist, says the scientific community and the technical community. [[Applauds]] To see a mediocre president, like Fernando Clavijo - to whom, by the way, Greenpeace declares villain of the climate - to say these things is something that hurts us but to what we are used to in the Canary Islands, but that an entire foreign minister says this seems to us a little bochronose. We were already suspicious at the end of last December that something strange was happening in our waters, because several groups of divers from the seabed between the islands of Fuerteventura and Lanzarote had heard detonations similar to the noises that prospect for almost an hour, detonations that recorded and elevated, through an ecological collective, to the delegate of the Government of the Canary Islands to clarify the origin of these detonations. We did the same here, in Congress, as a Confederal Group, and we asked the Government about them. Do you know what they've told us? I suppose you do, Minister. They said they didn't know where they came from, and they stayed so wide. That is, that no one - neither the sea captain nor the Ministry of Defence - knew of these detonations for half an hour in our waters, and what is worse, they have not even opened a commission of inquiry to determine the origin of the ship that appears in the system of geolocation of the website of Maritime Traffic and that it sailed without identification and at very low speed through the area where the explosions occurred precisely and at the same time. Not even the subject deserved a commission of inquiry. And look how things are, a few weeks after these events we learned from the press about the oil permits obtained by Morocco. You really didn't know anything? What did they expect to tell us? Ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of this Government to defend its territory and to act responsibly when there is the slightest doubt that something or someone can undermine its integrity. Believe me, they've had a new chance to prove that they really care about the Canaries and have missed it again. [[The lady]] You know perfectly well that there are many reports that show that it is not possible to carry out oil explorations near the Canary Islands without them posing a serious danger to our natural environment, to our economy, to the lives of our people; you know that. The Institute of Oceanography and Global Change of the University of Las Palmas assures that the area where prospecting is going to occur is located in the place of greater sensitivity for the larval transport that feeds the archipelago's fisheries and that a spill there would have an ecological impact - and I quote literally the report - catastrophic for an indefinite time on all the islands. It is also recognized that mere exploratory activity inevitably generates small discharges that are as dangerous or more than large stains, because they are not immediately perceptible. By the way, that risk was pointed out in the environmental report that the Repsol oil company had to do in 2015 and you have already ignored it; I hope that this time you will take it into account. In short, the researchers, the technicians of prestige, say: it is impossible that oil explorations can be carried out in the northwest of our neighbouring African continent without this affecting the Canary Islands, by the currents and by all the issues that they clearly explain. For more abundance, the Tarfaya basin, the area where prospecting is going to develop, includes the coastal coast and an ocean strip that reaches the town of Tan Tan, which, as you know, is the gateway to Western Sahara, a space that has been forcibly usurped to the Saharan people over forty years ago. [[Applauds]] The duty of the Government of Spain is to defend what has been illegally usurped from our Saharan brothers, but to date we have not seen him move a finger. We will not forget or allow you to forget that we continue to owe them a perpetual debt until freedom is embraced by the fifty-three province of Spain. We're not gonna let them forget it. The situation in Sahara is key to this conflict. You are well aware that article 83 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea states that the delimitation of the continental shelf between States with adjacent or facing coasts - as is the case with the Canary Islands with the Sahara and Morocco - must be achieved by consensus among all actors on the basis of international law. And you also know that these prospections violate the interim pact reached between the Spanish Government and the Moroccan Government in 2005 to delimit its Atlantic medium, which did not include the waters to be explored by the multinational ENI, which do not belong to Morocco but to the Non-Self-Governing Territory of Western Sahara. Therefore, the granting of permits to prospect in the area should already have been denounced for its illegality, Minister. To all this we must add yet another major problem, which is our archipelagic waters. Canary Islands is not recognized as an archipelago by the Government of Spain, until now inaccessible because of the unwillingness of its Government to enforce that archipelago principle in our land. To this day that would be a guarantee that the Canary Islands and the whole state can reserve access in accordance with international law in the exclusive economic zone that surrounds the territorial sea of our islands and its continental shelf, a platform on which, as I recall, an important finding of land has just been made. I'm done, President. We are still in time to avoid a misfortune and we therefore call on the Government to fulfil its task, which is nothing other than to force the diplomatic channel to prevent a multinational from hitting our valuable natural heritage. We're still in time, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u190	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, thank you for your inquiry. You have made a number of assumptions, statements and political considerations in which you will allow me not to enter. I am going to follow factual data and information that I want to provide you with regarding these potential prospectors. As reported in the statement of the Moroccan National Hydrocarbons and Mines Office, this body signed on 20 December 2017 an agreement with ENI Morocco on the area called Tarfaya Offshore Shallow, located along the coast of the cities of Sidi Ifni, Tan Tan and Tarfaya. The area in question, Tarfaya Offshore Shallow, the object of the oil agreement, covers an area of about 23,900 square kilometers, with a depth of up to 1000 meters below sea level. According to the applicable Moroccan legislation, the oil agreement is a precondition for obtaining exploration permits, which does not necessarily involve drilling, since there are different prospecting techniques, such as magnetometric, gravimetric or stratigraphic explorations, which do not involve the use of aggressive techniques. Nor does it necessarily imply the granting of a hydrocarbon operation. The agreement, once signed by the National Office of Hydrocarbons and Mines, must be approved by a joint decree of the Ministry of Energy and Mines and the Ministry of Finance. I would like to stress with this that we are in the first phase of a long process. Prospecting does not necessarily mean that oil is eventually perforated or exploited, as evidenced by the exploration campaigns carried out in the past, since this depends both on technical issues and on economic and financial considerations. In fact, this area has already been subject to prospecting in the past, companies such as Galp, DVM International or Tanger Petroleum have exploration permits in the area, according to the annual memoirs of previous years and other information from the National Hydrocarbons Office of public access. Secondly, I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, a fundamental aspect that we must bear in mind when dealing with this issue, and this is that the authorization of the explorations under discussion here falls within the scope of the decisions of a sovereign country. Morocco, like any other country, such as Spain, has the right to manage its territory and resources in the manner it deems appropriate and there is no objection in that regard. The development and prosperity of Morocco is a legitimate objective that Spain must respect and encourage for the benefit of its citizens and the entire Western Mediterranean region to which we are also a party. However, it is true that no country lives completely isolated from its environment and the international community is today an organized society that has rules and principles to ensure orderly and peaceful coexistence. Thus, there are limits to the actions of States. International law obliges countries to protect the environment and provides guarantees and responsibilities if there are negative consequences for third countries. I want you to know that the Government of Spain will always be vigilant in protecting its environment and I am sure that the Moroccan Government will exercise all its zeal in protecting the marine environment. In connection with this matter, it is often recalled that Spain and Morocco have not yet demarcated their waters. It is true that between 2003 and 2007 there were nine negotiating rounds of a working group for the delimitation of the maritime spaces of the Atlantic façade, but they were suspended in the absence of agreement. Nor has Spain made this delimitation with Algeria or with France in the Mediterranean because these are complex processes in which many factors come into play. It is an outstanding issue, it is true, but, in purity, that Spain and Morocco delimit their waters does not alter the essential objective: that a delimitation does not change the nature of things. Morocco and Spain, Morocco and the Canary Islands will always be neighbours. The delimitation of maritime spaces between coastal or coastal States, as is the case, is done by mutual agreement, as established by international law in the above-mentioned Convention on the Law of the Sea. Pending this mutual agreement to materialize, the national laws of both countries contemplate the criterion of equidistance, an interim solution endorsed by international jurisprudence. Well, by applying that approach, those waters are undoubtedly within Moroccan jurisdiction. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u192	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Pita Cárdenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u193	It's not true, minister, it's not true. Those waters are not Moroccan, they are from the Non-Self-Governing Territory of El Sahara, where there is an international conflict. [[Applauds]] They're not Moroccans. [[Applauds]] That's the problem! That you recognize what is not even... even last week a lawyer from the European Union has produced a very hard report with the fisheries agreement! What do you want me to say? His Government's indolence towards the Canary Islands is so great that it seems to us - I must say - painfully predictable. I do not know if it is not to give us reason when it is inhibited from responsibilities by claiming that this is the sovereignty of another country. Well, no. With regard to the rules and principles you mentioned of the European Union, articles 117 and 118 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea state that it is the duty of the States sharing the continental shelf to preserve the living resources of the high seas in relation to their respective nationals and to cooperate in their conservation and administration. Well, if these two points are not being complied with since the signing of the fisheries agreement, the one I have commented on, between the European Union and Morocco, according to a report by the Advocate General of the Court of Justice, imagine what is happening with regard to prospecting, whether or not it is not being done. I reiterate that there we have a cetacean sanctuary and 50,000 signatures were presented here to be declared a protection zone. There is already a minimum of protection in that bank and it is called a place of Community importance because these species of cetaceans go there to reproduce. It's a unique area in the world. The Government has not yet complied with Directive 2013/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations. This directive obliges the European States to report on operations in search of hydrocarbons which pose a transboundary risk of serious accidents for the Community territory and Spain has not yet complied with either the Canary Islands or Europe in this respect. Where are the internal and external emergency response plans, Mr. Dastis? Where are they? Where are those plans that should have been developed to preserve the security of the archipelago and its interests in the area? How many wholes would you have won with that position in front of the Canary Islands and Morocco in this contest! I ask you to visualize Canaries covered by a tide of piche. Imagine how the news would open. Do you think that the tourists, those 14 or 15 million who pull out of the economy of the Canary Islands, would visit us and be able to go to other places where there were no environmental problems? And not the tourists anymore. Do you know the consequences that a spill could have for the millions of liters of sea water that we drain - we live from that sea - for daily use, for our land, for us? Do you really think it's worth taking all those risks? Things have not been done well so far and I ask you to reflect and make an effort to reverse this situation. We propose that the Kingdom of Morocco be urged to comply with the international commitments of the Paris and Marrakesh climate summits to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are absolutely incompatible with the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Let us rely on the arbitration capacity of the Community institutions. No help is too much when we play so much. The solution must guarantee the territorial integrity of the Canary Islands from the assumption of the archipelagic principle and let us not forget, please, the human rights of the Saharawi people. [[Applauds]] Next week we will be discussing the motion resulting from this inquiry. It is an opportunity to vote for that dream of life that we canaries have to keep our sea blue, without pollution. You will have a unique opportunity, gentlemen of the Government, to begin to amend the historic debt you have incurred with the Canary Islands. I hope - I tell you heartily - that you will take advantage of it. As we say in my land: Canaries is not sold, Canaries defends itself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u194	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u195	Mr President, I have already mentioned before that the principle of sovereignty has, at the same time, a limit on the actions that can be carried out on its basis by companies and States, and that the possible consequences for neighbouring countries of the actions that one authorizes on its own territory must be taken into account. Thus, with regard to prospecting and drilling on the continental shelf, in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which both Spain and Morocco are a party, the coastal State has the full right to carry them out but always respecting the applicable international legislation on the protection of the environment. Let me remind you in this context that, in any event, Spain and Morocco have an excellent relationship and that, in line with this, this matter has been dealt with with by the Moroccan authorities by the usual diplomatic channels and that I have personally worked with those authorities to move our positions on this matter. So, last January 29th, I had a telephone conversation on this matter with my Moroccan counterpart with whom I had also spoken a few days before, in Algiers, in the framework of the Mediterranean 5+5 Forum. In those talks, he conveyed to me the will of Morocco to continue to dialogue on this issue in a spirit of respect and mutual trust of neighbouring countries and partners. That's when Spain also did explorations in its waters and that's how it's going to be now. Our embassy in Rabat also maintains contact with the Moroccan authorities and closely monitors this matter. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the Government's best readiness to keep the Canary Islands authorities fully informed in a spirit of transparency and respect for the competition framework. In this sense, last day 30 I received the President of the Canary Islands, Mr Clavijo, to discuss this issue among others, and we both agreed to continue to exchange information and to cooperate with institutional loyalty for the benefit of the citizens of the Canary Islands and the rest of the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-07-CD180207.u196	Thank you very much. We shall conclude the plenary session. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was one and five minutes in the afternoon.
