ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Before continuing with the agenda for the plenary session, I would like, on behalf of all, to remind Mr Miguel Cortizo Nieto, who throughout his career as a public servant was a deputy in the X Legislature, a government delegate in Galicia and an ambassador to Spain. I think I gather the feeling of this House by conveying to your family and your relatives our condolences and paying tribute to you by keeping a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u2	I should like to inform you that we will begin with the voting on the election of members of the Board of Directors of RTVE so that the debate and vote on the actual decree-law included as item 3 of the agenda will take place at the end of the session. I would also like to inform you that, since the members of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation, which is to elect that House, were not elected at the plenary session of the Senate yesterday afternoon, item 2 of the agenda relating to the election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation falls from the agenda. [[Mr Girauta Vidal asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u3	Madam President, I invoke Rule 72 for compliance with the Rules of Procedure. There is a request for reconsideration which is not yet resolved and which concerns what is to be voted on here. The extraordinary nature of this plenary cannot in any case protect the lack of protection and guarantees of the rights of Members. We call for the meeting of the Board of Spokesmen, for it to be heard and for the Bureau to decide on what is being reconsidered.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u4	Thank you very much. In accordance with the services of the House, this extraordinary plenary session is convened and will be held in accordance with the current legal order. Thank you so much. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I beg your silence. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber]] I would ask you, if you leave the Chamber, to do so in silence. We begin with the second vote for the election of the members of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation since the required two-thirds majority was not obtained in the first vote held at the Monday session, in accordance with the unique article of Royal Decree-Law 4/2018 of 22 June, which specifies as a matter of urgency the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation and its chairman. The election shall be made by the system set out in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and, in accordance with the provisions of the said Royal Decree-Law, those candidates who have been nominated by at least half of the parliamentary groups of Congress, four parliamentary groups, shall obtain an absolute majority of the members of the Chamber, i.e. 176 votes. The candidates proposed by at least half of the parliamentary groups of the Congress are: dona Rosa María Artal Martínez, don Juan José Baños Loinaz, dona Concepción Cascajosa Virino, dona Cristina Fallarás Sánchez, don Tomás Fernando Flores and don Víctor Sampedro Blanco. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will be taken, as you know, by the ballot system and each Member will write on the ballot up to a maximum of six names. I would remind you that only ballot papers containing the names of the proposed candidates up to a maximum of six, as well as blank ballot papers, will be considered valid. In this vote five telematic votes have been cast, the one by dona María Auxiliadora Honorato Chulián, the one by dona María Isabel Salud Arete, the one by dona Irene Montero Gil, the one by don Pablo Iglesias Turrión and the one by don Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, which I am currently introducing to the ballot box. Let us begin the call for a vote. The secretary-generals of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. After the vote, the voting began. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I will announce the outcome of the vote. Votes cast 312; votes in favour of dona Rosa María Artal Martínez, 177; votes in favour of don Juan José Baños Loinaz, 177; votes in favour of dona Concepción Cascajosa Virino, 177; votes in favour of dona Cristina Fallarás Sánchez, 177; votes in favour of dona Tomás Fernando Flores, 177; votes in favour of dona Víctor Sampedro Blanco, 177; blank votes, 3; null votes, 131. Therefore, having obtained the favourable vote of the absolute majority of the House, the aforementioned candidates have been elected as members of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u6	We then turn to the agenda item on the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Discussion on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2018 of 22 June, which specifies as a matter of urgency the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation and its President. To present the royal decree-law... [[Rumors]] Quiet. Is there a member of the government going to defend him? I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Quiet. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u7	With your permission, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to explain the reasons that have led the Government to adopt Royal Decree 4/2018 of 22 June, by which we wanted to specify as a matter of urgency - which justifies the normative formula - the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Public Broadcasting Corporation and of its Presidency and to request its lords to validate and, therefore, to support it. The reason why we have been forced from the Government to pass this decree-law has been essentially to avoid an empty situation in the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, bearing in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that the completion of the mandate of all its advisers, and especially of its Presidency, had led us to a situation of emptiness and inoperativeness. This was a situation that brought cause of another previous one and that was rooted in the parliamentary blockade that has prevented the launch of the procedure to choose the new council according to the law that this House approved in 2017. This Government, with a sense of responsibility, could not remain impassable in the face of this vacuum, which in turn caused an unusual situation of advisers with the expired mandate, of a president in very limited executive functions and with the prospect of not being able to elect the new ones in the short term. We had the duty and responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and we have done so without altering any aspect and with full respect for the reform adopted by this House in 2017 to elect the council of public broadcasting, we have only established a transitional regime for the renewal of this body until the new procedure is developed by the General Courts and a council and presidency is elected. There has been no change in the position we have held so far, simply the Government has acted responsibly in the face of an emergency situation with a temporary and transitional response, I repeat, until the planned new competition can be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the reality that has led us to this situation and to this decision of the Government, it is necessary that we remember this afternoon, even briefly, the journey that public radio and television have had in our country in recent years. In 2006, a socialist government, of which I was also a member, approved a new model for public broadcasting, a model created by the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, which was endowed with a legal regime that allowed its independence, neutrality, objectivity and quality. Thus, we have established a two-thirds qualified majority system for the election of advisers and the presidency. It therefore required a very high consensus for its appointment and at the same time guaranteed pluralism in its governing bodies and also respected ideological pluralism in this House. The 2006 Act strengthened the role of Parliament by creating the Joint Commission for Parliamentary Control of the RTVE Corporation and its societies, and we also created the Spanish television and radio information councils in that norm, which are fundamental instruments to give voice to professionals and to ensure in their work the independence, objectivity and veracity required by our Constitution of the objectives and information content of their work. The reform was driven by the socialists at an earlier time, but the results, which I briefly highlight, allowed the best time that they have ever known television and our public radios for their quality and for their recognition. That is the model we want to recover consistently. [[Applauds]] In 2011, La 1 de Televisión Española was the leading audience chain with 14,5 points ahead of the next one. Its information was the main information reference for the majority of citizens. In 2009, La 2 received the award for the best information in the world, one of the many awards and recognitions that were achieved in those years for the merit of the men and women who worked and worked there. Unfortunately, however, after the change of Government at the end of 2011, that legacy was not respected. The law was amended, leaving behind the consensus of the previous stage, and the councillors, councillors and the presidency were appointed by a simple absolute majority. A difficult period was opened for the corporation, of which we have all been able to witness, with constant complaints of its partiality. In this regard, I would like to highlight the work carried out during this time by the professionals and the radio and television information councils for defence who have had to do with their independence in circumstances that have not been easy for them. Ladies and gentlemen, with the aim of recovering a model of action and information from the public media in an independent, pluralistic and high-quality way, the Parliament, this House, adopted in September last year Law 5/2017, which contains a new form of selection of members of the board of directors and the president of the corporation. As you are well aware, the law established a period of three months for the General Courts to approve the rules for the public competition, and in particular for the appointment of the committee of experts, which would in turn be responsible for evaluating potential candidates. As you also know, that deadline expired last December and we are in July. This is the situation in which the responsibility of this Government has been immersed. The procedure for electing the new board of directors has not yet been initiated six months later. There is a parliamentary blockade, which we have all witnessed, which prevents the system of competition that was adopted to restore independence and pluralism to the bodies of the corporation from being put into operation. In this situation, last Friday, 22 June, it ended, in addition to the term of office of the councillors who had not expired the term of office of those who had already done so for years, the very status of the chair of the board of directors, so that all its members, including the president, had the term already fulfilled. To all this is added, as you well know, that the president does not remain in office - he cannot -, which limits the executive capacity and creates serious difficulties - we could be generating them - in the management of the corporation and in its normalized functioning. For this reason, the Government has sought to find solutions, which are within its competence and can within its constitutional competence, and that is the will of this royal decree-law. It is a constructive will, for which I ask you to validate it. As I have pointed out, this decree-law has as its fundamental objective to unlock this situation that we have encountered without any horizon of rapid resolution, to give a transitional and timely solution so that the corporation can function normally until the start of the procedure that will affect the public tender. In no case - I repeat, in no case - have we intended to replace the reform that the Chambers made and which is contained in Law 5/2017, but quite the contrary. This decree-law respects the spirit and the postulates of that reform and, for that reason, the required majorities have not been modified. This is something that your ladies and gentlemen already know and therefore I do not need to explain too much, but it is appropriate that some statements do not call for confusion or simply lie about a legal reality that affects the public media and, in turn, the importance that the public media have in managing the fundamental right to information, to the participation of each and every one of our compatriots in the democratic model. The Government is only seeking to solve this vacuum situation that we did not want and could resolve, which would cause serious damage to professionals and public instruments financed from the public resources of all Spaniards. Citizens deserve television and radio as a public information service and also as a communication service in a situation of full normality and full guarantees. I therefore ask you to support this royal decree, which responds to extraordinary and urgent reasons, as I have said, but also responds to the firm will of this Government to resolve as many issues as we can with the sense of responsibility and with the instruments of which the Constitution gives us. I thank in advance those parliamentary groups and each of their lords, the men and women who, from their seats, have understood the reasons of the Government and are willing to support them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u8	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mr Moreno Bustos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Pedro Sánchez has arrived in the Government of Spain without going through the ballot box. As we all know, when the ballot boxes passed through Pedro Sánchez, the Spaniards repeatedly and loudly rejected him. [[Applauds.-Protests]] This objective circumstance reaches the Government without the approval of the ballot box and is impregnating its decisions with worrying authoritarianism. The first, occupy Spanish Radio and Television in the purest style. Pedro Sánchez has decreed the 'expropiese' in Spanish Radiotelevision; he has done so to the race without any other reflection, without any other interest or commission than an anxious, unusual and exalted desire to send in Spanish Radiotelevision at all costs. Ladies and gentlemen, the finger of Pedro Sánchez mocks and graves a parliamentary agreement that is currently under way for the renewal of the board of directors of Spanish Radiotelevision. Madam Vice President, don't be fooled, or someone tell you what's going on. Pedro Sánchez's finger attacks fully the autonomy of the Congress of Deputies and despises and denigrates the Senate in a way that has no precedent, emptying it of content, suppressing its functions and attacking it with unconstitutional premises. This is as serious as it is relevant because it has a strong authoritarian aroma, although the vice president calls it not to modify the majority. And it is that the finger doesn't stop at bars or legal obstacles, 'expropiese' has dictated Sánchez and so does the government immediately, with the support of its populist and independent partners. Sánchez's decree considers it urgent to renew the board of directors of Spanish Radiotelevision when it had not even finished its term, but the PSOE did not appreciate any urgency in 2012, when it had been ten months without president of the corporation. So little urgency then seemed to them the Royal Decree of 2012, which even presented a remedy of unconstitutionality for this reason, because what stoppage of the activity in Radiotelevision has now occurred? None. What negative effects did it have on Spanish Broadcasting that its board of directors would remain in office for a few weeks to launch the agreed public tender? None. What data does the balance of the last few years on Spanish Radio and Television? The best. The best in terms of audience: compared to the 14 that the Vice-President said, 16 in the last year, continuous information leadership, effective and rigorous management and transparency. What reasons, then, justify the decree? Absolutely none. Look where you're looking, here's no other intention than to take control of Spanish Radiotelevision. They have even had the daring to decree the end of the so-called Black Fridays, and it is that everyone knows that Pedro Sánchez and his partners are behind that and other discredit campaigns of Spanish Radiotelevision. [[Applauds]] So now, with the decree, they are told, "Shut up, the protest is over. And so, with the ties they will now make bracelets; with the union leaves, cucuruchos; with the reports and communiqués, a yellow yearbook of their political battles. Very soon we will check whether the information boards, known in Spanish Radiotelevision as the Guadiana, will again immerse themselves and disappear in the placidity of the editorials until new order, as has happened with the demonstrations of the pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree of Pedro Sánchez does not go beyond the slightest examination of democracy, opportunity, legal rigour or urgent or real necessity. I'll read you a few words. Over the last few months you have given public opinion different reasons to issue this royal decree-law: urgency, blockade, paralysis, economic crisis. They are all false motives, arguments of a bad payer, because there is no urgency, there is no blockade, there is no paralysis or there is a serious risk of non-compliance with public service services that justify this handshake. In addition, in the past two months they have made a scandalous campaign to disqualify the institution and its professionals just to justify their decision and stage the breakup. They were delivered in this same rostrum by the spokesman of the Socialist Group, Mr Gordo, on May 17, 2012, in the debate on the validation of another royal decree, after ten months - ten months! - without president of the corporation, showing a enlightening anticipation of what they would do themselves later. Do you know what other spokespersons, such as the Basque Nationalist Party, said that same day? He said: We are not in line with the urgent need, nor with doing so by royal decree-law, nor much less with altering the majorities that make us believe that independence, plurality and, ultimately, democracy is maintained. We are older and, therefore, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Group will vote against it. I have a feeling that the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party have now lost that maturity they declared at the time. Another important issue, ladies and gentlemen. How much will it cost to validate this decree? What blackmail has been paid for this gift from the government coalition? First, a great discredit for Spanish Radiotelevision, which has seen how the minister without a portfolio, Mr Iglesias Turrion, announced himself and without the slightest modesty the name of the new president of Spanish Radiotelevision. Up to three presidents in 24 hours. This can be a historical and, of course, bochronous record; that's right, each one more plural and objective, isn't it? This is the best example of the alleged independence and depoliticization of Spanish Radiotelevision and the detachment of the government coalition by this public medium. All ridiculous and lying. Secondly, a new legislative chapter has been lit so as not to demerge the monumental and inapplicable normative confusion with which socialists have endowed Spanish Radiotelevision, a maraña that neither the most skilled jurist is able to understand or interpret. Thirdly, the desaire and the most outrageous mockery of Parliament is spreading. They are in such a hurry to occupy Spanish Radio-television that they do not even respect the forms and even make threats to the Legislative Chambers that are only conceived in the audiovisual models of Venezuela or TV3. By the way, we can now understand why the Socialist Party conditioned its support for 155 not to intervene TV3. It is quite clear: it was not appropriate to scare allies for the motion of censure. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, the votes in favour of this validation are paid in exchange for assignments and concessions to their partners, some remain hidden or simply inadmissible and others are becoming known to the public's stupor. The blackmail has become the parliamentary way of life of the government's motion partners, and to show the button put by Mr Tardà, who, without blush, kneels politically to the vice president and ministers in exchange for his votes. And since they don't seem to learn, we just have to remember that the Catalonian Generalitat had planned to expropriate state television licences after its attempt at a secessionist coup d'état, and we'll see how we end up here too. And, now, Pedro Sánchez expropria Spanish Radiotelevision with the support of those same independenceists, who will be greatly satisfied that TV3 camp their broad coups, happy that Spanish Radiotelevision stops dealing with them, treats them with deference and complicity and the corporation relaxes or ignores the defense of the Spanish Constitution or the territorial cohesion that Spanish Radiotelevision has as its first and fundamental objectives of the public service it provides. Ladies and gentlemen, before this decree of Pedro Sánchez there have been different political reactions: that of Citizens, which continues in the photo and in the demoscopic displeasure and today demonstrates their irresponsibility by abandoning the institutions, not participating in them and neglecting a reality such as is the consequence of this real decree that has to do with the principles of democracy. Today, if you don't change your mind again, you defend a public contest, and I wonder: Why don't you defend it also for Andalusian public television? Why here yes and there no? Is it because they rule in Andalusia with Mrs Susana Díaz of the Socialist Party, who does not even want to hear about the renewal of the board of directors of Canal Sur? Why, ladies and gentlemen, have the councillors been out for four years, there is no president, there is no director general, and who does this is a deputy director general, and you, lords of Citizens and also the socialists do not say or say mu? That is true, as they support the government there, neither competitions nor anything, because the criterion that is valid is the bandage, the change of opinion and the race in short, because that serves to defend that and the contrary. But, gentlemen of Citizens, it must be remembered that if today we are debating this decree, if today we are as we are - and worse than we are - it is because of their lack of responsibility and their disloyalty. You, who were more concerned about destabilizing the former government behind your back, are also responsible for this socialist government and the royal decree that you have brought us here. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] Thanks also to you and your uncompromising ambition, we are suffering from this decree and that public broadcasting ends up in the hands of populists and independenceists. For once, do not profile yourselves; show a little commitment and maturity and do something to avoid it, because we already know that the easy thing - as we have seen - is to run. After hearing from the spokesman for Podemos two days ago, ladies and gentlemen, what do you want me to say to them? If it is a matter of shouting, alarming, gesticulating and altering, I assure you that they have no rival there, and if their aim is no other than to convert, with the consent of the Government and the socialists, public television into the object of the chavista propaganda that so much likes their party, there is also no competition with their speech. It is normal the algarabía, the true grinder of all this abuse is the minister without portfolio, Mr. Iglesias, whose recognized aspiration is to manage from his office the slice of Spanish Radiotelevision to program La Tuerca 2 and to realize the desire that he already expressed publicly in his moment to make with the public television in Spain. That is why all I have to say is to congratulate them, because they will do so thanks to the weakness of a government in prison of blackmail and commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to reject this decree with all the political and legal forces, and I am already making our appeal to the Constitutional Court, because its justification is not supported, because it is an outrage, because it is an unjustifiable coup d'état, because it only responds to a partisan strategy of occupation and control of Spanish Radiotelevision, and because the consequences for all the citizens of this initiative and the support they will receive when they validate it are tremendously damaging and undesirable. We are not going to be on the television of those who organized the motion of censure, directed from today by independenceists and populists. We are not going to legitimize the television of the motion of censure. Please explain, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, why they are handing over the television of all the Spaniards to whom they are thinking of breaking up Spain. Because the promises of making an independent public medium and of respecting parliamentary agreements to renew Spanish Radio-television have faded in an instant, because they were just a camel, a hoax and a lie more of a government that wants to govern without going through the ballot box, a government that despises the parliament, that circumvents the law and openly occupies what is not its own, but the heritage of all Spaniards. Today you will be able to carry out this decree, you will know what you have had to pay for it. By maintaining the government they are selling out the legality to pieces, turning to those who want to break Spain and to the trench populism. That is, indeed, their historical memory and future consciousness: to reach the government without going through the ballot box and with 84 deputies and 62 senators can be a material reality that will in any case give away the quail of their protagonists, but it is a mirage that does not change the true political and parliamentary weight of each one. Pushing the majority by force and accommodating the rules to that claim every day is a bad way and this real-decree the worst possible beginnings for a Government. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u10	Thank you very much. I give the floor, because the Socialist Group has called for the use of turns in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, ministers. First of all, my thanks go to the whole House on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for that fond memory to our colleague Miguel Cortizo, who was also a Member of Parliament in the previous parliamentary term; therefore, thank you very much to the whole House for that recognition. [[Applauds]] Mr Moreno, first of all, I would like to ask you one thing, that when you go up to the rostrum, if you will then use the turn of reply, that you have a little respect, especially the workers of the RTVE Corporation. [[Applauds]] It is no good to go up to this rostrum to accuse, not the Socialist Party, but the workers themselves, of being subjects of the Socialist Party and of doing what the Socialist Party tells them to do. Because by that rule of three - I don't know if you've been betrayed by the subconscious -, perhaps you were thinking of those people who when Mr. José Antonio Sánchez arrived, to whom you put your finger with that modification you made of the royal decree, you hired for a parallel wording in RTVE. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] You were probably thinking about it. Those same people who today are going to the judiciary to ask that they be confirmed in their jobs, but not as any other worker, no, no; not with the wages of the convention, no; rightly so - let all your ladies and those who may be seeing us from outside the House - of 100,000 euros a year. And what's going on? That whoever has to go to represent the interests of the corporation to these trials is not attending and are going to some who, by chance, have also been hired, not to defend them, to bet and to defend the interests of those people who are claiming that job when they were put to the finger there by Mr. José Antonio Sánchez, whom I believe you know. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the first day of this parliamentary term, in July 2016, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented six proposals for legislation that responded to six issues that for the Socialist Party were of the utmost urgency; among them was the one that sought to regain the independence of the RTVE Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. Independence and pluralism in the election of these bodies were lost in 2012, when the People's Party, making use of its absolute majority, excluded all opposition from participation in the system of election by means of a decree-law. That was a toe, ladies and gentlemen! With that decree, participation was cut, pluralism was cut in the election of the president of the RTVE Corporation. Nothing to do with what we discussed today, ladies and gentlemen. This royal decree guarantees everything that the People's Party precisely cut and puts on the table the need to return plurality and independence to public broadcasting. During all these years not only the opposition, but the Spanish Radio-television professionals have been freely denouncing, Mr Moreno, this limit situation freely, the party and pro-government use, the alarming loss of credibility of the news media and the existence of intolerable levels of manipulation and censorship that turned this public service - you know what, right? - into a press office of the People's Party. The proposed law introduced by the PSOE returned to the parliamentary election by qualified majority of the governing and administrative bodies of the corporation, as a necessary condition to recover the model that led the corporation to its highest levels of independence and pluralism and to its best data of consideration, hearing and credibility. This proposal, improved with input from other groups and the inclusion of a public call for the filling of vacancies and the assessment of candidates by a committee of experts, was approved in September last year and provided for the complete renewal of its management bodies, which were occupied by the People's Party in 2012. But what the People's Party failed to avoid by losing the majority of this House - that is, the passing of the law - has been avoiding by using the governing bodies precisely of this House, initially alone and in the last few weeks with the support of the representatives of Citizens, who have surprised us all by breaking the almost unanimous agreement that we signed all the other groups for the approval of the public contest; a public contest that at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, follows the same procedure as the previous adoption of the decree. At the moment, I would like to ask the Citizens' Lords if they recognize this document and the signatures in it because among them is the signature of the Citizens' spokesman. [[shows a document of several pages and the last one with several signatures]] [[Applauds]] Do you know him? This is the document that we signed by the representatives of 217 Members of this House in response to a letter from the Presidency of Congress asking us on 12 February to present a document with the greatest possible parliamentary support. The greatest possible parliamentary support without the participation of the People's Party, which obviously did not, was 217 parliamentarians, which we all signed. This is the document, and we met with the surprise, at the last meeting of the Bureau that there was, that Citizens vote with the People's Party and come to an agreement with the same amending what had already been signed. [[Mr. Girauta Vidal makes negative gestures]] - Yes, Mr. Girauta, don't say not with your head. A distribution where the committee of experts - I remind you in case you have forgotten - collected the form of election and what it was for each and, by the way, where all the political groups with representation in the Joint Commission participated. With that signature that you have made of that document promoted by the People's Party, coincidences of life, disappear all the minorities and the majority on that committee of experts, do you know who has it? The People's and Citizens' Party, the others don't paint anything, nothing That's the reality of what's been happening. [[applause]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult, not to say that it does not make much sense, to respond to what Mr Moreno has been saying in his speech. I have started to take note here and, of course, I see that you have spoken very little about Spanish public television, Mr Moreno. He has spoken of chavismo, he has spoken of Andalusia, he has spoken of Citizens, the PNV, Podemos, the Socialist Party, but of public broadcasting, nothing at all; of what is the decree, nothing that I could hear him. Therefore, it is difficult for me to answer you or, rather, that we can devote time to that when my obligation on this turn is to speak, on the turn in favor, in favor of the decree-law. This decree-law contemplates exactly the same as the law does, but it is true - the Vice-President has said and I repeat it in this intervention - that there is no board of directors right now because four, four of those councillors have expired five and a half years; the other five ended their term on the 22nd day, among them, the president who, as you know perfectly well because he has been a spokesman for the Spanish Joint Broadcasting Commission for many years, has no executive power. By the way, Mr Moreno, I have the feeling - if it is not true, I withdraw it and there is no problem - that what really worries you is precisely having lost or having the possibility of losing control of Spanish Radio Television in that press office of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you this for a reason, and I think you know it as well as I do. At the last meeting of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio-television, while Mr Sánchez was still president, Mr Sánchez proposed to all the advisers who resigned and that SEPI appoint a single administrator. Do you know who ruled this country at that time? The People's Party. Therefore, that single administrator would have named it the People's Party, but there was some advisor who said no, that he did not intend to resign and, therefore, that move you intended to make went wrong to keep controlling public television. You are perfectly aware of all the situations that are taking place on the radio, of all the outbursts that are being committed and, therefore, when you go back up to this rostrum speak of Spanish Radio, not of other things that can be thought of to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u12	Mr Moreno Bustos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Camacho, they still don't explain in exchange for what. Nor is it unusual, if even the President himself has become President of the Government without yet explaining in this House in exchange for what! That is why I would ask you to stop teaching small papers, because what we want to see is the small paper that blackmail brings with it and what the Government and the Socialist Party have had to pay for these votes. That's what we want to know, Mr. Camacho. [[Applauds]] You speak of respect; you, who have neither respected the institutions nor respected the majority. Or do you respect each other when you have them and when you don't have them then you don't have to respect each other? Nor do they respect your agreements, because you and I signed an agreement last September with your party spokesman, Mrs. Margarita Robles, and failed to do so. We've come to those agreements, and you know it. They respect absolutely nothing. Use the hearings as an argument. For you look, according to the hearings, in recent years the information services have been leaders for twenty months, and you are the ones who invented that of: you are not leaders of audiences because you manipulate. I say that if you have been leaders for twenty consecutive months it will be because there was no manipulation, and it is not that I invent the argument, it is your own argument, Mr. Camacho. I repeat to you again: today Spanish Radio Television ceases to be everyone's television and becomes telemotion, Mr Camacho, telemotion. [[Rumors]] That, and not another, is the reality. When something is unjustifiable - and this royal decree I assure you it is - and there is no way to explain it or to argue it either, say what the government says in its defense - although it is true that the paper endures everything - the reality is that it is. You have also manipulated the existence of a firm agreement to carry out the public contest, that public contest that you say you keep and that you have paralysed with your decree because it had to have been approved two weeks ago in the Senate, then do not tell us milongas, Mr Camacho, that the public contest goes ahead because you have stopped it. Even, I repeat, they have managed to give a hand to the Senate itself. They don't give a shit about institutions anymore. You in what you can't get out end up putting the conditions so that nothing comes out of there. If you have to put some conditions, they are put, and no matter what the PP has 150 or 250 senators, no matter what. You will already put the conditions, as for Mr Maduro, so that the Senate becomes irrelevant. Does that seem to you to be the game of democracy? [[Applauds]] And if there was no urgency on the day the Council of Ministers approved it, we know since then that the royal decree is only a currency of exchange in the distribution of the loot, a payment, a concession, a gift to its partners in Podemos, who have handled, continue to manipulate and will try to manipulate much more Spanish Radiotelevision in a few hours, and they are going to manipulate it - I already know it - more than all the governments of democracy in the last forty years, and, Mr Camacho, they are warned. In order to validate this royal decree, they have also had to humble themselves and yield to other loyal partners - I repeat, loyal - in quotes, such as the Republican Left and the PDECAT. You have to know everything. To do so with its principles and against an extreme weakness as in the Government is something that no one will be surprised, but to do so with promises and concessions that compromise the Spanish Constitution and the territorial integrity of our nation is something completely unacceptable and that I could never have understood that my ears could hear it from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, because its independent partners condition the vote on the validation of this royal decree that the ministers of the Government say publicly that they are willing to speak of a right to secession in Catalonia. This is very serious, Mr Camacho, and it is very serious and intolerable from the same point of view. And what is the government doing in the face of this blackmail? So swallow the threat and say submissively in their appearances - we have seen it this morning - that they are willing to talk about everything with the thugs. That's how you defend the general interest, Mr. Camacho, that's how you defend yourself? Do you think controlling Spanish Radio Television is worth so much? Ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree on Spanish Radio-television has become the most undesirable political initiative, but so long as it is agonizingly held in power, it gives you the same thing that is played with the State, that it is discredited as never before Spanish Radio-television or that this public medium becomes a barter while it lasts and serves your interests. The royal decree has also shown that neither the parliamentary majorities in Congress nor in the Senate deserve the slightest respect when it comes to electing Spanish Broadcasting Councillors. Its chavista tufo reaches breathable levels. [[Laughter]] Therefore, we are not going to participate in a council that is born addicted, under blackmail and on the proposal of those who participated in the motion of censure. The lentil dishes and the 30 coins are for others, not for us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u14	Mr Camacho Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Moreno, you're still the same. I see that you have brought the speech and the reply already prepared with arguments that have absolutely nothing to do with what we are debating here. I began my speech earlier by asking for respect for the Spanish Radio-television workers and I start the reply by asking for respect in this case for this House, for ourselves, because if someone lacks respect for the House we are missing it from ourselves, from you precisely. [[Applauds]] I don't think that's good. This is Parliament, I don't know if you understand what Parliament means. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: I do...]] Yes, Mr. Hernando. Therefore, Parliament is to Parliament, to speak, to dialogue, and if agreement is reached, but what is not worth, Mr Moreno, is to come up to this rostrum to invent, to falsify, and that is what you have been doing for all the time you have been here, these last five minutes - I am no longer speaking to you about the previous twelve - because all this which you have come here to say and which you have already written in this reply, where did you get it from? You want to explain it to me? Or is it exclusively the political interest of the People's Party to sell that the Socialist Party or the socialist government have surrendered to these people so rare and so bad that they are the independenceists? I don't know, you say it. I repeat, as I said in my first speech, that we have come here to talk about public broadcasting and that is what we should be concerned about. The situation that exists at the moment in Spanish Radio Television knows - you know it perfectly well because you know it very well - that it is intolerable, you can not endure a minute more. Mr Montoro did not say many months ago here in this House, in response to a parliamentary question that was asked to him, that if he did not like what he saw on public television that changed the channel. I don't want to change channels, I want everyone to be able to watch public television as much as anyone else can because, in addition, it's a public service that we all pay for. But we should not pay all Spaniards for an exclusive service of the government of a political party, whatever it is, I don't care, in this case it's yours, casually, that's who has done it. You will never want to recognize it, but you changed that situation in 2012 with that royal decree that you passed, Mr Moreno, and threw the rest of the groups out of the possibility of reaching an agreement. That is what we want, for this Parliament to agree, and that is what we have brought here. There have been political groups that have wanted to participate, you could have participated in that agreement and citizens exactly the same, but you have decided to be excluded and the causes you know very well. [[Mr. Moreno Bustos points with his finger]] No, no, don't point at anyone. Report to yourself, because you know perfectly well what the causes have been for which you have been left out. Everyone is responsible for their actions, you are responsible for yours. Our obligation is to carry forward Spanish Broadcasting as a public service that is, a plural and independent public service, which should never cease to be. Thank you very much. [[Mr Tardà i Coma asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u16	Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u17	Rule 71.3 of the Rules of Procedure refers to allusions which may infringe the decorum or dignity of a parliamentary group. On the basis of this article, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u18	Tell me what expression or phrase you want me to withdraw.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u19	We have for many days - and we have never said anything - accepted, so as not to create a bad atmosphere in this Chamber, that the word couptista referred to in our parliamentary group should be normalized. I think we have shown some tolerance and resistance. We have never responded in the same way by addressing other parliamentary groups. I ask this House not to normalize this insult that I believe no one in this Chamber deserves. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u20	I have asked you, Your Honor, to tell me specifically which Member you are addressing and which text you are referring to today.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u21	To the deputy comrade of the People's Party who used the term coup in his previous speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Moreno, you have the floor to answer the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u23	Yes, Madam President. Anyone who makes a coup d'état, even in part of Spanish territory, is a coup d'état. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u24	Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke in the position-setting session by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, I have an advantage, that I am free and that, in addition, my political party in most things lets me say what I think. [[The Lord]] I really think this today is a disgrace and a shame. It seems absolutely incredible to me what has happened and what has been discussed here. I begin by saying, as I only have two minutes, that it is clear that it seems to us a lesser evil to approve this decree. As the Vice-President has said, it is an interim issue and our wish is for the competition to take place urgently and for that television to be plural. I voted for the list to the council without knowing the people and I think it will not represent the plurality of this House or this country, but I consider it a lesser evil and, above all, because it cannot be for the no, for the no. But of course, that we are here today, with a radio-television theme, with a concept that we all believe in, talking about coups, talking about Catalonia and talking about populisms, if there's anyone anti-We can be me. [[Applauds]] But how can you say, when the candidate who is proposing the PSOE, which I do not like or do not like, has been director of National Radio proposed by the People's Party, which is a chavista? We're really losing the north. That of the candidate presented by the PNV, who is a professional of a newspaper like Deia, with a professional resume, is said to come here to manipulate a television, a political apparatus and break Catalonia and I don't know what I don't know how many, but if we were two weeks ago the PNV and us with the Popular Party! We're going to lower the level, we're going to be serious, we're going to lead to a provisional situation, we're going to do the contest as soon as possible and we're going to have a plural public television where opinion is free but plural and information is objective. That's my position. Let's realize that people on the street are asking how much pensions go up and what day. This interests the world of the press, the politicians and logically the television professionals, but we are giving a real show. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. The promulgation of this royal decree-law on the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its president cannot mask the shameful episode conceived by the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez and the Parliamentary Group of Unidos Podemos with its list of presidential candidates in a degree of attempt and the repertoire of indiscretions displayed without disguise on social networks that reflect the sectarianism with which it is intended to consummate the direction and administration of a corporation essential for Spain. The parliamentary procedure for renewing the management of Spanish Radio Television would have to be based on the highest degree of agreement. Consensus is the natural thing and much more so when regeneration should be taken as a goal to ensure the independence, neutrality and objectivity of state radio and television because they play a basic role in democracy as a system of public opinion. However, this afternoon, the Vice-President of the Government asks Congress for a validation based on cambalaches and with support, which in some cases respond to criteria that are absolutely far from the main subject and that are alien to the defence of the public service, hence, instead of promoting a new stage of confidence in the direction and management of RTVE, this method of political barter establishes, at the request of the Council of Ministers, an involution from which nothing new can be expected. Ladies and gentlemen, by rejecting on behalf of the Forum the validation of this royal decree-law again evokes the freedom of printing that the Courts of Cadiz discussed before even that the Constitution of 1812, because that tradition begun in Spain is truncated and crumbled with this controlling initiative of the government of Pedro Sánchez, the first step to convert the RTVE model into a commissariat of communication to the greater glory of its inspirers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me start with a remedy: Almax or bicarbonate. It is relevant for difficult digestions and I see that Mr Moreno and the People's Group have had a difficult digestion since they lost power. So, Mr. Moreno, Almax. We voted in favour of this decree and in favour of the motion of censure because we understood that a window of opportunity was opened, because it could enter fresh air, also in Spanish Radiotelevision, and to untie this legislature, a legislature where bills were passed that were not then processed, where laws were passed that were not then fulfilled. This decree is just an example because it has not been complied with because the previous Government did not comply with the second transitional of Law 5/2017, simply because the PP did not like it or did not like it. I'd rather have a president and some old counselors. With the validation of this decree we returned to the popular will the legality that had been lost, we restored the legality. Yes, Mr Moreno, the legality, the legality that this Parliament gives with 177 votes, and 177 votes, whoever they are, are just as good as yours. They are just as good as yours, be they from Compromises, Podemos, Republican Left or whoever they are. Finally, they speak of legality in the Senate, precisely in the Senate, where the People's Party has 62% of senators with 34% of the votes. And you're talking about a coup d'état? That Senate is indeed a real coup d'état to democracy, a Senate that we should have abolished for a long time. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Group, quiet; quiet and much Almax. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u31	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, ministers, deputies, in general, we are not in favour of the royal decrees. If anything has been seen in this House is the use and abuse of the royal decree when it would have to be something absolutely exceptional. In this case we recognize that there is an exceptionality - we might call it - that has occurred. Here this issue has been blocked for so long by some political parties that it seems that the path of the royal decree is justified so that things simply go forward. Having said that, I must also say that all this negotiation, from that of the council to that of the royal decree, has been carried with its feet, absolutely with its feet, and that is basically addressed to the Socialist Group. One thing that if they had gone wrong could have cost them the government, you have taken it as badly as you could. I hope it's not a precedent for the future. Anyway, just two weeks ago, and we weren't going to let a government down, were we? So, as the old ad said, we accept octopus as a five-letter pet that starts with pe. Someone might think he's a dog, right? Well, no. We accept octopus and will vote for the royal decree, which you have carried very badly. In five months, four months or three, we would not have voted like this, and we warned you not to get used to these blank checks because you will not have any more, or rather few. Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. I did not intend to go out because the validation of today's royal decree was based on the substance of the same arguments we used on Monday, but given the intervention of the Member of the People's Party, I would like to comment on certain issues. Obviously, I repeat again that this does not begin with the decree, this ends with this decree; let us hope that it will temporarily end with the decree. Because the goal already we know what it is, the object we already know what it is and, therefore, let us hope that, as soon as possible and as quickly as possible, the process that we all agreed on for the public competition and to have a public broadcasting project and model that we can all truly say is a valid model that can be validated with the best televisions. I say that we said on Monday that this does not start here because if we are here today it is because what changed those of the People's Party with its absolute majority has brought these muds, Mr Moreno, because all the arguments that you have been using seem to have been forgotten when a pen with the absolute majority decided that the model that existed had to be changed - yes, yes, yes, with the Members who had, of course, yes, within the law - when you decided: why are we going to let this be a consensual thing if it can evidently be used with the absolute majority? But the clearest example is Mr Sánchez's figure. Do you believe that Mr Sánchez's management, personality and - I was going to say professionalism - non-professionality is valid somewhere? Is that the model of television that you truly consider to be the good one, which is the valid one? Obviously I think he's going to be alone, just like he was. Here we have appealed to dignity, it is very good to appeal to dignity, but let us not be hypocritical, because obviously we appeal to dignity when we do not get what has been negotiated, because if it were dignity we do not enter or negotiate, because the decree that you are saying would you have obtained five councillors have been decreed or would it have been valid then? Of course, the point here is that when you don't get what you negotiate then it's no longer worth. If it is not valid, it is not valid, but not on the basis of the results obtained or not obtained in a negotiation. And I think it's very legitimate for everyone to ask for what they want to ask for, but it's necessary to be consistent with what everyone negotiates and gets or doesn't get. Neither do we like to walk together as the decree was made, we would have wanted something else, but this had to untie it, this could not go on like this, we had to look for some formula and the government looked for the one that sought, because there was a jam originated by you, because they said one thing and then look where the subject remained. And as that did not go forward and we continued as we were, we had to enter into a decree that the Government had submitted, in which the councillors voted and went ahead so that what we were all looking for could be achieved, that the process of creating such a public competition could be accelerated. In the background, moreover, you have used this rostrum for you to be seen the paw, because on television, television you have not spoken anything. He has spoken of secessionism, independenceists, coups, anything, chavismo, and the question is: what is the television model that the People's Party has? If the model of television that the People's Party has - I repeat - is that of Mr Sánchez, I tell him that we have been right. Otherwise, say publicly it's not that, because sometimes you've worked one way or another. I repeat again that the problem was not that it was the PP. I think it's good that it's from the PP or wherever, the problem is that it wasn't a good professional, and if you don't ask the Spanish Radio Television workers, who haven't paid any attention to them. The matter seems to be in how we control the information, how we get to some election in one way or another. I also sent a message to the Socialist Party and I think they received it; I told them that things cannot be done as they were later. You can't make out a few names in one afternoon and make them public, burning people's names, because then what happens happens. Thank God it was corrected in time and got a list I think much more consensual. I ended up saying the target is still the same. We will support the validation of this decree because we consider that this cannot stop, that this must continue. Public broadcasting must be a model, which has not been. Let us hope that we are on the right track, even though things have not been done well at all. Finally, a little history lesson that seems to have been missed here. Here, there were one coup d'état in 1936 and one in 1981 in this same house, and in both cases the protagonists were the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moreno, I hope I do not make a speech that is too chavista, Bolivarian or Judeo-masonic. I apologize in advance. A first, a news story, I am not someone benevolent with the PSOE nor am I someone pro PSOE, as you know, I am not someone close to you, but I do recognize that during the governments of Zapatero, apart from social advances such as homosexual marriage or some other, did something very well - I repeat, did something very well - which is the management of Spanish Radiotelevision. That's undeniable. It is undeniable that the TV of Urdaci was not the same as the TV of Fran Llorente, and I also hope that the TV of Rosa María Artal is not the same as the TV of José Antonio Sánchez. It is not an option to throw manipulators and spokespersons who attack people's intelligence, live in Lavapiés or live in the background of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, it is not an option, it is an obligation, and they will always be able to count on us. They'll always find us there. If they do - I say, that I am not a suspect - half the good that when Zapatero, simply do not put his hand on Spanish public television, I, personally, who raised with it, I settle. To finish, two messages. The first for fellow citizens. [[Laughter]] The other day they laughed a lot at my great companion Joan Tardà - who should be banned - simply by claiming here, in this rostrum, Catalan public television. [[a lady MP: I wasn't laughing at him]] Laugh, laugh now. [[Rumors.-A lady MP: We should cry!-Another lady MP: We don't laugh, we cry]] Crying, laughing... Laugh, I'm here.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u36	Mr. Rufián, just a moment. Please do not enter into dialogue between yourselves. There is no room for dialogue in this speech. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] I am saying this not only for Mr Rufián, but for the other Members who are in the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u37	We have memory; they laughed a lot at my partner Joan Tardà. I just want to make two comments, gentlemen of Citizens; the first is that you have the guts to go to a program like Frequently Asked Questions Calm, calm, Mr Toni Cantó. [[Mr. Canto García del Moral pronounces words that are not perceived]] The program Frequently Asked Questions, in the Saturday night primetime in Catalonia. And two, have the guts also to propose it on Spanish public television and that people speak in all the languages of this country of countries called Spain. Have the guts to do it. [[Applauds]] You're invited, Mr. Toni Cantó. [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: Control yourself! On TV3 you invite, Rufian!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u38	Mr. Singing, I beg you, please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u39	He's invited, but he never wants to go. Mrs Vera, I say this with regret, but it gave me the impression of two things at the end of your speech. The first is that he was making fun of us for not voting with you on his pact with the PSOE. Maybe I'm wrong, but I have to tell you. Don't make fun of us next time we don't vote on any of your pacts with the PSOE, because you can get tired of making fun of yourself. And two, it also gave me the impression - maybe it's also my thing - that it said something like that - the hemeroteca is there - like: Jo, how heavy with Catalonia! [[A Member of the European Parliament: Yes]] He said something like, "Don't talk about the Catalan conflict on these issues now. [[Mrs. Vera Ruíz-Herrera makes negative gestures]] I just want to say that we will always, always, defend the civil rights of the people of Catalonia, because it means defending the civil rights of the Spanish people, because the 'a for them' was the 'a for everyone', including you. I repeat, refrain from making fun of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u41	Thank you, President. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the only decent option you have today to end the day is to withdraw the decree. [[Applauds]] And for the show offered in these past days, the interim president of the government must apologize to the workers of Spanish Radiotelevision, ask forgiveness of journalism and those professionals whose names have been using them frivolously and burning them, and ask forgiveness of the Spaniards, who pay Spanish Radiotelevision. [[Applauds]] It seems that in two weeks they want to overcome all the damage that has been done to Spanish Radio Television by Rajoy's mandate. How do you think the image of Spanish Radio Television has affected the culebrón that they have mounted these days? Remove the support ties to Spanish Radiotelevision and put the plumers, which have been seen in the league [[Applauds]] Today you are the main problem of Spanish Radio Television. When they announced the finger, the minister came to say, I quote: Protests on Spanish Radio Television are over. How did you know? Who dares to announce something like this? It's a good thing the workers didn't give up. I'm going to read you the tweet of a well-known journalist I have here : On Monday Pablo Iglesias called me to tell me that President Sánchez and he had reached an agreement so that the appointments of Spanish Radio Television would depend on Podemos. [[shows it to the House.]] Do you think this is normal? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? What is true in these words? They're gonna tell us? What else is we going to take care of? How many public institutions are going to be part of La Moncloa's rent payment? We also know that the PSOE has offered an advisor to Esquerra these days. The other day, on TV3, they said about Inés Arrimadas, winner of the elections in Catalonia, that since she was Andalusian, they didn't know if she was sleeping, she was wandering in her house... The Andalusians are like that. This was said by a guy who has pocketed himself in two years 13 million euros; a creator of wholesale hate. Well, since TV3 is not a problem - already said Margarita Robles - the PSOE offers an advisor to Esquerra to copy the model. Imagine, today in La 2, history of Spain with Gabriel Rufián: It ran the year 1714... What price will nationalists support this decree? The Spanish have the right to know whether the payment for Pedro Sánchez's assault on Spanish Radio Television is the transfer of political prisoners to prisons managed by their party comrades. The Spaniards need to know if there are more payments for the rent of La Moncloa. Yesterday, Minister Calvo, who competes with Woody Allen on famous dates, offered Catalonia a dialogue without a clipboard. What are lawn mowers? Is the law a hack? Is equality between the Spaniards a cutthroat? Is the Constitution a hack? [[Applauds]] Look, I've sometimes thought that Pedro Sánchez is the Trojan horse of the nationalists, but there's a big difference, on the Trojan horse the Greeks, to tear down Troy, were hidden inside it; in the case of Pedro Sánchez, the nationalists have been saluting in the group. [[Applauds]] You want to remove 'TelePP' to put 'TelePSOE'. You never wanted a public contest, there's nothing left to pull from the hemeroteca backwards, in the first few months when we were two solo groups that supported the public contest. For the PSOE the public contest was a minor evil, while they could not stick their fingers. And, gentlemen of the People's Party, you guys are kicking today, but not because there's no public contest, you're kicking because you haven't given them six advisors on Spanish Radio. [[Applauds]] If you are blood brothers of the PSOE in this matter! Do not come today from regenerators; you are part of the problem, you do not deceive anyone. And, Mr. Moreno, I'm going to talk to you about Andalusian radio; I'm from Malaga. Do you know who voted against the reform of Andalusian radio television presented by Citizens in the Andalusian Parliament? He voted against the Socialist Party and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You're exactly the same! Do you know what we are asking for an investment agreement, by the way, and to approve budgets for Spain? We ask for an autonomous law, five-week paternity permits, tax cuts to the most disadvantaged and middle classes, equal pay for police and civilian guards, more money for health and education, fight against corruption and countless things. What have they negotiated since Podemos, the party of the people, these who finish two out of three Plenes greeting the rostrum very excited with the fist up? What was the first thing you demanded of President Sánchez? The control of Spanish Radiotelevision. [[Applauds]] That has been the first thing you have demanded of the interim president of the government, Sánchez: that whoever is cold stick to the heat of 'TelePodemos', that we will already warm him up with ideas. Acting President Sánchez is blocking the door of the Moncloa with very important institutions; the last, the CIS. The empty president has placed in the polls paid by all Spaniards to a member of the executive of the PSOE; the CIS moves to Ferraz and soon we will be asked about what the president has left the sunglasses. [[Laughter and applause]] We Citizens have already registered a proposal for a law that prevents these cacicadas in the CIS. If the public contest that we defend at all times had prospered, we would now talk about what model we want for Spanish Radiotelevision and not who we give a finger to put it on Spanish Radiotelevision. All you wanted was to remove 'TelePP' to put 'TelePSOE' or 'TelePossos', but it's been a bit complicated because Possos has told you to see who has the fattest finger. I hope that in Podemos we will listen to the defenders who have in their ranks of the public contest - who have them and have worked very and very well - and not to that of: To me, give me the news. To conclude, now that you have given them to interpret their hands in the PSOE, look at the determination of mine. They won't be able to count on Citizens for their toes, they won't be able to count on Citizens to continue doing exactly the same thing Rajoy did. Ask for forgiveness, withdraw the decree and convene the public contest that puts the best in front of Spanish Radiotelevision. Don't steal from the Spaniards their radio and television to turn them into propaganda devices. In short, get all your mangas out of the public media. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rufián, refrain from speaking to my person and to any Member of my parliamentary group in that tone of moral superiority, paternalistic and condescending. [[Applauds]] I will try to focus on the subject and talk about what we have come to talk about because it seems to me that everyone here is taking advantage of the moment for their history. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u44	Wait a minute, Mrs. Vera. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u45	Two days ago we spoke and gave all the reasons to explain or make understand why we voted this royal decree. Everyone knows that; we have participated in the drafting of the list, we have participated in the drafting of the list, but I want to remember the reasons because it seems that everyone is forgetting. I'm hallucinating with the firm defense of the entire House at the public competition. Indeed, you will be very anti-podemite, Mrs Oramas, but we are certainly taking the most transversal measure that this legislature has seen in these two years, what a wonder that everyone protects it in that way! Gentlemen of the People's Party, we have said this as active and passive, call us whatever you want: Bolivarians, alive Maduro, comeniños, whatever it is, but Aznar put a Member of his parliamentary group as president of Spanish Radio Television. [[Applauds]] We have been telling you all this time: there are 500 reports from the Information Council. Mr Moreno, I respect the Information Council, the trade unions, the inter-centre committee and all the independent Spanish Radio-television workers who, as I have told you as active and passive, have tried until the last moment to enter into the agreement so that everyone would have to cover their noses. We have done so too until the end and this royal decree is a gesture of respect for the work of the workers, also of the women, of Spanish Radiotelevision who, on those Fridays in black and with great courage during all these months, have denounced on the social networks concrete cases of manipulation. Remember how the argument of the Gürtel plot was passed from Moncloa to the lady you presented to be a member of the board of directors, Mr Moreno. [[Applauds]] Remember what they called the famous declaration of Cristina Cifuentes, who also had to witness corruption in the Community of Madrid: commitment to honesty. Remember the number of cases of manipulation. Mr. Rufián is gone now because he doesn't need to be, I suppose, but... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u46	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u47	... to the rest of the comrades of Esquerra Republicana I say to you: remember all those reports of the Council of Informatives denouncing cases of manipulation by how the Catalan matter has been dealt with, which we have denounced in the committee before President Sánchez over and over again, not just the colleague of his parliamentary group. That's why I was telling you to save yourself that tone with us. Having said that, why do we do it too? We told you yesterday: because you have blocked month after month the public contest that we signed all the groups in the House, Mr Camacho was teaching you now. What if we don't vote for that royal decree? It seems to me that we must make it clear: what is going to come forward is the public contest that you - People's Group - and you - Citizens; yesterday I made a distinction, Guillermo, but it seems to me that I no longer have any choice but to put you in the same sack - you have called for a majority on the committee of experts. I have it too - the public contest - but not a copy, Mr Camacho, but the original. [[Show a document]] I have this public contest and this agreement signed by all the groups: Ana Oramas, the PDECAT and all the members of the Joint Group; Esquerra Republicana; the PNV; the Socialist Party; us and Guillermo Díaz. He was here until he was raped and he didn't even have the decorum to warn, Mr. Díaz, those we had actually been working on and defending this agreement for so long. And fourth and last because it's a transitory solution, and when I say transitory I make it clear and I explain it. In order for us to sign that royal decree, we had to have a clause specifying the dates for the public competition. No one here is going to be able to leave in a year, the next or the next. Have you read the decree? There are dates for the public contest; otherwise, we would not have been on his side. Next thing I wanted to say because it did not give me time to say it in Monday's speech and I want to make it absolutely clear: do we like this president who has been proposed by the Socialist Party and whom we have supported? Do we think we like it? We don't like it, I don't think it's the best profile to direct Spanish Radio Television in a transitional way until the public contest. The whole country, unfortunately, for the show that has become all this, knows perfectly well that our candidatures were different, that we bet on two completely different professionals. Everyone knows - because they have read a tweet from that professional like a pin cup - that we defend two completely different profiles. [[Rumors]] Calm down, calm down because I've heard them with my mouth shut. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u48	Mrs. Vera, just a moment. Quiet, please. Mrs Vera, the agenda for the debate is for the Presidency and we are not going to give it up. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr.Majoral Perales: Of course, let's see if you put order!]] Quiet. [[Major Perales: Aren't you ashamed?]] Mr. Mayor, I'm calling you to order for the first time. I'm not going to let you have one more tone out. [[Majoral Perales: What if - pointing out the banks of the People's Group - yes?]] Understood? [[Mayor Perales: And there it is?]] I'm not going to give you any more tone outings. I called the order for the first time. The organisation of the debate is the responsibility of this Presidency and I will continue to exercise it, and if it is to be silenced, I will send it. Understood? Go on, Mrs. Vera.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u49	As impartial the Bureau of this Congress as the supposed law for Spanish Radio Television. [[Applauds]] After this show I go back to what I meant. Everyone knows, the whole country knows that our profile to chair Spanish Radio Television in a transitional way towards the public contest was very different from that proposed by the Socialist Party and finally agreed. This gentleman, Mr Fernando Flores, has a past within Spanish Radio Television, has a management behind his back and has, in the face of professionals whom we also appreciate, absolutely unfair decisions, which we do not share, which we do not applaud and which we reject. Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go I won't say names, because the name you're playing We can get you guys to smash it. But after that, we insist, there are reasons that are ahead and that we prioritize. We prioritize them and we have to support a board of directors that has turned out to be plural and that unfortunately does not count on their presence or count on their presence, Guillermo, and this does not seem to me to correspond to the commitments that we had made with the workers, who had asked us for a plural board of directors. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group]] From here the last thing I want is to thank all the people who throughout this process are watching the show. If you don't mind public radio, what have you been holding on to her like a burning nail for two years, Mr. Moreno? [[Applauds]] If they hadn't staged this show, if they hadn't run a campaign to burn down the names of professionals - pros! - that we've set up... If you have not even wanted to enter into the agreement because you wanted this agreement the same as you wanted with the public competition - the majority of the representation on the board of directors - let yourself respect the workers at least, let yourself respect this House and let yourself respect and understand and assume. And if you don't, as my father said, take two stones, he'll hit his ankles, and you'll see how it goes. This public broadcaster is no longer anyone's... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u50	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u51	He's no longer from the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u52	Mrs. Vera, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u53	Imagine - I say this to the citizens of this country - if the People's Party is not able to listen to a Member in this rostrum, what will it do with the workers who think differently of you and put you in the dark rooms. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Thank you very much. Thanks to the parliamentary groups with which we have been able to agree a solution and thanks to all the Spanish Radio and Television professionals who have faced you for six years despite losing to your job, because you have to have a lot of courage for that. [[Strong and prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, put on their feet.-Applause from Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera addressed to the members of her parliamentary group.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u54	After the debate, in three minutes we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We proceed to vote for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree Law 4/2018 of 22 June, which specifies, as a matter of urgency, the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation and its president. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 338 plus 6 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 174 plus 5 telematics votes, 179; against, 164 plus 1 telematics vote, 165.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-04-CD180704.u56	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Applauds]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was seven and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
