ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u1	The meeting was called to order. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. We started with the second vote for the election of a single interim administrator for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, since the required two-thirds majority had not been obtained in the first vote, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the single article of the Royal Decree-Law 4/2018 of 22 June, which specifies as a matter of urgency the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its president. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen! Is it gonna be that hard? The election shall be made by the system set out in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and the proposed candidate shall be elected if she obtains the absolute majority of the House, i.e. 176 votes. The person proposed by the Government, pursuant to the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 20 July 2018, as sole interim administrator for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation is Doña Rosa María Mateo Isasi. We shall proceed to the vote on the system of ballot papers. I would remind you that only ballot papers containing the name of the proposed candidate, as well as blank ballot papers, will be considered valid. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber]] I ask the Chamber services to close the doors. In this vote five telematic votes have been cast, by dona María Auxiliadora Honorato Chulián, by dona María Isabel Salud Arete, by dona Irene María Montero Gil, by don Pablo Iglesias Turrión and by don Juan Pedro Yllanes Suárez, who I am introducing in the ballot box. I ask the Madam Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. The secretary-generals of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. After the vote, the voting began. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u2	After the vote, the voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour of Rosa María Mateo Isasi, 180; 1 blank; 131 null. [[Applauds]] Therefore, having obtained at least an absolute majority of the members of the Chamber, that is, 176 votes, doña Rosa María Mateo Isasi has been elected sole interim administrator for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u3	We continue with the agenda item on the Government's agreement that, in accordance with Article 15 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for the period 2019-2021 and the non-financial expenditure limit of the State budget for 2019 are set. To present the agreement, I have the floor on behalf of the Government... [[Rumors.-There is no member of the government sitting on the blue bench.-Pause]] Quiet. [[Rumors]] Quiet. [[Rumors.-Pause.-The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, enters the Chamber]] I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister of Finance. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this plenary to submit to its approval the agreement of the Council of Ministers last Friday, which approved the new budgetary stability targets for the three-year period 2019-2021. Objectives which include both the debt horizon and the deficit target and which are the starting point for the preparation of the General State Budgets for the next financial year. This new fiscal consolidation path represents an important flexibility in the deficit targets for the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, a path that would allow to loosen the budgetary constraint of Social Security and the Autonomous Communities, so that they can invest in their policies... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent, please, that the Minister is not heard. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u6	Thank you, President. So that the autonomous communities, Social Security, can invest in their competitive policies by supporting economic growth and investing directly, ladies and gentlemen, in improving social policies. They are also aware that the Stability Act itself states that it is mandatory for this House and the Senate to pronounce on the objectives proposed by the Government in this agreement. And, ladies and gentlemen, although this forum traditionally discusses the non-financial expenditure limit, you also know that it is not put to the vote because it is the prerogative of the Government of the State Administration. Therefore, we are talking about new stability targets that set the deficit target at 1.8% of GDP by 2019 compared to the initial 1.3%, an additional 5 tenths that have been distributed mostly among the autonomous communities, which see increased by 2 tenths their deficit targets, from 0.1 to 0.3, which represent an additional 25 billion euros to be allocated to the policies they have to provide; and in addition, in Social Security, which would obtain another 25 billion euros, another margin of 2 tenths. Therefore, following the agreed path in Europe by 2020, this year's deficit target would be 1.1 % for the general government as a whole and 0.4 % for 2021. After the data, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to explain to you the arguments that led us today to bring this new path to your consideration, so that we can forge a constructive majority among all of you that, away from short-termism and visceral positions, is able to establish a horizon that allows the State, that is, the General Administration, Autonomous Communities and Social Security, to develop the policies necessary to reach the demands and expectations of citizens. Because I believe - and I have not tired of saying this since I came to the government - that it is time for families to notice the economic improvement, it is the time after years of constriction, fear and alienation of the citizenry, that came with the suffocation of the crisis and that if you ask in Spanish homes you will see that it still persists. I don't know if they had a chance to see last Sunday - I could - Obama's speech in commemoration of the centenary of Nelson Mandela's birth. If you have the opportunity to do so, I invite you to see it because it is always inspiring and hopeful that, in a panorama like the current one, an intellectual and moral effort will be made to place politics in the place that I think it deserves. He said in this speech that Mandela reminds us that democracy is not just about holding elections; he understood that it is not just about knowing who has the most votes; it is about the civic culture that we build and that makes democracy work, and he warned us about the emergence of a policy of fear, resentment and the trench and of those who make the decisions that impact on people, but who do not have the opportunity to see the pain in the face of the fired worker or his children do not suffer when there are cuts in education and health because there is less tax revenue due to tax evasion. It would seem that, being a speech for such a different forum in such a different country, they would not have much to do with these words with what we are dealing with today, but basically, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the same thing. What lies behind this debate is an idea of enormous depth: the arrival of a crossroads, at a time when two very different visions of the future compete for citizens; two different stories about who we are and who we should be. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u8	Because, ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating today, beyond a few tenths up or down, is where we want to place people in our way of doing politics. Here we are today who believe deeply in the greatness of democracy, in the unlimited possibilities of dialogue, in the firm vocation to build and recover the decency of politics for people. But there are also those who are stuck in the short-term and in the worst sense of politics: that of the trenches, I would say the policy of resentment. But, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it clear that we in the Government have a better account, a story to offer to citizens. And that is why today it will be difficult for them to explain themselves to those political formations that deny this improvement in the form of a new path that allows others to have greater opportunities. The citizens will not understand that they are being usurped the possibility of being able to pass through this part of the need for administrations to adjust with greater comfort, with recovery of rights; ultimately, with improvement of the quality of life. And that, ladies and gentlemen, allows both the flexibility of the deficit target and the modification of the expenditure rule that we had committed associated with this path, or the use of the surplus for those administrations that had it. Because, ultimately, the beneficiaries of these 5 tenths are not the autonomous communities or the Social Security, they are not entities in abstract. The beneficiaries of these tenths are the pensioners, they are the unemployed, they are the users of health care, they are the people who go to our public education, they are the ones who receive the pension from the social services, it is the young people who seek an opportunity, it is the workers, the users, those who live and transit with the public infrastructures, are, in short, those who need a housing, the most needy or the income of insertion. [[applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it would not be understood that those who are concerned about this sensitivity should also profile themselves. We cannot understand why abstaining in this vote or not voting in favour is simply not recognizing these needs that we have at the moment and, therefore, we cannot stand up to conduct that is not useful, that does not improve people's lives and that, ultimately, does not allow us to add a majority that we are building in this country that allows us to eliminate cuts, that allows us not to be so austere, more austere even than what Europe proposes, and that allows us to travel the path without the cost being so steep. It is these policies, ladies and gentlemen of this House, in which the autonomous communities, the social security system and, therefore, it is those that we have to push for these new deficit targets to decompress the citizens of that corset who have had all this time of crisis and will allow them, most importantly, a relief that will be immediately transferred to their daily lives in the form of new rights, recovery from those who had been lost or a safety mattress that gives them health, education, dependency or pension policy. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that those who oppose the well-being of citizens, those who inflict insolidary free harm, will also have to report to the public and explain to them why they are more concerned about their navel than about the reality that happens outside this House. [[Applauds]] Because what is worrying is not that this closed position is the nonsense of the vantage point that the Government that drives it is not the one that some think should have been its own, but that the profound thing is that it is due to a deep ideology that understands that we must continue to reduce public spending and, therefore, curtail equal opportunities. It is also a matter of concern that they have not understood what has happened in society in recent years because, ladies and gentlemen, with the closure of some parties, as is evident today, what is clear is that they have not finished grasping what the citizens of us expect, that this new social and representational configuration and, above all, the people of the street, conminene us, encourage us to draw new majorities, which are more plural, which are more inclusive, which are more polyphonic. And we're talking nothing but politics, which may have been misdrawn by absolute majorities at another time and which ended up being managed, those majorities, as an absolute whole that did not allow for progress. And you will not be able to explain how you are more inflexible than the European Commission itself, a European Commission that has been aware of the need to reshape these deficit targets and that, in addition, it did so because you had been unrealistic targets, were parameters that had not been respected by the previous government. The Government does not say this, ladies and gentlemen, it is a reality that is seen in the budgets that are in progress in 2018, which is said by the AIReF and the European Commission as a whole. Because if we need this flexibility of the deficit target it is because we start from an unrealistic approximation for 2018, unreal because there are, look, EUR 25 billion that are declared as rights in the articulation of budgets, but that have no correlation in the revenue budget or in the expenditure budget. It is as if expressed in the literature, but then it does not correspond to the figures of the budgets. And, if that were not enough, we have an unreal revenue forecast because in the first half of the year it has already been warned that the collection is below what is stipulated for VAT or for companies in an unprecedented budget shortcut exercise that was led by the previous government. [[Applauds]] That is why the relaxation of the path is not free, it is not a whim, it is a necessity to adapt the accounts to reality; a necessity that the European Commission itself has seen, aware that we have made an important effort to try to adjust the deficit year after year. Therefore, we needed, we would have to look at a less steep cost that would better correspond to reality and fundamentally, ladies and gentlemen, that would not translate into EUR 18 billion of cuts that would have to be made if all that were not amended, because, as we argue to the European authorities, it is now time for the public administration to comply with its share of the boost of economic growth. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow such an austere path to slow the growth of the economy and, consequently, to lose the possibility of generating the jobs associated with that growth. We cannot allow the stability objectives to be a danger to the more than 400 000 annual jobs that are to be created over the next three years, or to the growth of our wealth, our gross domestic product, which will allow us to redistribute that income and wealth in the form of new rights. We cannot allow the objectives of stability to be once again this course of action which is fraught with growth and which, above all, generates more inequality, which was the path towards which we were headed. We would therefore also prefer to make the deficit more flexible so that we can deal with these issues from the rigour we want to bring to the new accounts, a rigour that is due to our commitment to Europe, to transparency and to the real commitment to stability, a rigour that we are going to commit despite the negative and even if the new stability objectives do not go ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, do not think that they are harming us, the General Administration of the State or the Government that supports it, that is a very short political vision; we had barely reserved a tenth of that flexibility, a tenth that can be offset by the State Administration's own collection, so that it will not affect practically the limit of non-financial expenditure that we have approved and which represents an increase of 4.4% on which the past budget set up. They do not believe that with this attitude of today they make it impossible to draw up general budgets of the state that we are going to set up with illusion, the same illusion that we are infected by citizens and that we will set up convinced that another way of doing politics is possible. [[Applauds]] We will do so with the contributions of the political groups that create, that are willing to bet, that are willing to risk with the citizens and that can therefore build a plural and polyhedral majority that supports the will for dialogue and negotiation that the people to whom we represent transfer us. Obama spoke of trench policies and placed those we believe in democracy, civil rights and a common humanity in front of them. We are at this crossroads to which I referred at the beginning and we have to prove that it is possible. I understand that in this House there is a majority in the will to build and to change reality, in order to show that it is possible to do politics in another way, but it seems that today the internal narrative will be able to them. I don't know if I'm in time to appeal to them for responsibility and the vocation to improve people's lives. This government, I myself have spoken not once but many times with each and every one of the parliamentary groups present in this House because, although it seems that we are debating deficit, debt or expenditure rule, these are only instruments to shape a different reality, a reality that has to accommodate people's needs. Today's real debate is nothing more than how we fight inequality, how we look at people in front of them to put them in our vision of politics and understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the whole House had to direct that orientation from the point of view. It is important that citizens legitimize politics because politics legitimizes their needs and that is what we do today. [[Applauds]] That is why I encourage reflection and commitment. He read a fact months ago: eight out of ten Spaniards consider that the laws are made to benefit the rich. We have the possibility to legislate in another way to benefit citizens, especially, ladies and gentlemen, those who are having a worse time; we have to tackle this inequality that plagues us as a society. And in case we lack the reasons, just because of social justice, we have irrefutable economic arguments; the International Monetary Fund, which has shown that equality consists of a greater distribution of income and a greater sustainability of economic growth, says the International Monetary Fund. There are numerous studies that point in the direction that this Government is leading: we have to combat inequality because as a country we will be stronger, more competitive and we will have greater social justice. This new government is the result of an enticing and plural parliamentary majority that was fraught with a new social commitment to the vocation of doing politics in another way. I, ladies and gentlemen, and my Government will continue to work in this direction, and I appeal to you to do the same, because we must begin to narrow the social gap that has been agitated by the neoliberal policies of the People's Party, the same policies that have become magnified and endorsed by the new directions, which only have the condition of coming to power once again because they continue to carry out the oldest political forms and which the more people reject, tired of it, I oppose everything by system because I understand that power belongs to me. [[applause]] For this we must have a margin as a State, and in this State there are the autonomous communities and also the municipalities and the Social Security. We have to enjoy this margin in order to be able to reach public services in the form of revitalization and improvement; we have to be able to make more social policies, which people are asking us to do and therefore directly impact on people's lives. It's possible. Of course it's possible! Other countries are doing it. It is possible that the forces of progress can be joined, united from budgetary rigour and stability so that people can be prioritized, put them at the centre of the political debate. A new plural and polyphonic majority can be incorporated, which will have more consensus insofar as it includes more realities, more voices and more expectations, and which will, ladies and gentlemen, have a wider spectrum insofar as these consensuses have been the result of the most humble negotiation and political vocation. Some believe that democracy can be chaotic, slow or frustrating, but the efficiency offered by an autocrat is a false promise. From there we come, ladies and gentlemen, from absolute majorities which neither built nor included, from simple majorities which were solved by a coup d'état-law, from the pride of those who only understand one way of doing this: by the line of order and command. Even if it may be chaotic or slow, we have the challenge of making it exciting, of making it possible, from a progressive perspective, from a deep moral conviction that we want a more just society for all, from the premise of plurality and joint construction. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need to highlight the contradictions that this system poses to us, the anomalies introduced by those who take advantage of the institutions, molding them at their own will, and for this it was essential today to have the support of a majority in the modification of this way of doing politics. It was necessary, and still is, to demonstrate that the will of the citizens is to have more options to give more answers to the problems that distress them, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is important and fundamental to speak, to build, to dialogue, but to be useful, to be able to translate our votes into concrete realities: in homes, in schools, in hospitals, in all environments where citizens every day, every day, also play their opportunities and their equality. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to work and we must continue to rebuild that world, putting all the instruments in place to put it into operation. I conclude with regard to this Government. We, we, and I am sure that the Socialist Party too will remain elusive on this mission. They will find us working every day with initiatives that can be discussed. [[Applauds]] We will come again and again to this Congress to ask for the vote and support of the citizens who listen to us outside. We and our colleagues will continue to try to change reality and politics. That is why we are here and we owe it to the citizens. We are going to draw up a budget that symbolizes the change in those policies, the turning of our gaze towards people and the need for a social agenda that dignifies this society. We are aware - we are not naive - that this reality is not going to be easy, but we will continue to work with illusion; the very one that has brought us here and that we are infected every day by the men and women who give a lesson to this country every day, because, ladies and gentlemen present in this House, the responsibility that we have at this time in our hands is to demonstrate that we are attuned to the sentiment of the people, that we are willing to change their lives and that we are willing to put our wishes at the service of those who are worst passing it, the middle class, the working class and those who are worst passing it with the crisis. Let us allow the recovery now to have an impact and to be redistributed in the form of greater rights, better public services for citizens and, ultimately, better welfare for the men and women of this country. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u9	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. To that end, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I want my first words to be of support and solidarity with the civilian guards wounded in the violent assault on the Ceuta fence yesterday. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the frivolity of some governments has consequences and is sometimes very serious. Mrs Montero, the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to support the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and for each of their subsectors for the period 2019-2021 and the financial spending limit called the spending ceiling because it considers them harmful to all Spaniards. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you a year ago on the occasion of the 2018 debate on the expenditure ceiling that I saw no reason to radically change the policies that were giving such a positive result for the economy and for job creation in our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u12	The truth is that data and reality have been giving us reason for five years now. Our economy has grown by more than 3% on average in the last four years, the European Union's country with the highest growth in the last few years. We have been able to create 2 800 000 new jobs in the last five years, of which more than 530 000 have been created in the last twelve months, and employment is also the best-behaved country in the European Union. We have reduced the public deficit left by the Socialists by more than two thirds, from 9.3% in 2011 to less than 3% at the moment, and we have made a fiscal effort of more than EUR 65 billion. Mrs Montero, these figures reflect the reality of a Spain which has overcome the crisis, a Spain which makes us proud of the effort made by all the Spaniards and also - of course not! - of the economic policy carried out by the Government of Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro; an economic policy which has been praised by the vast majority of national and international analysts and study centres and which is an example of how one can emerge from the crisis in many parts of the world; a successful economic policy which you have decided to abandon in order to return to the traditional economic postulates of the Socialist Party: increase in spending, increase in deficit, increase in debt, rise in taxes and, finally, impoverishment of society. You said the key was where we put people. Unfortunately, the Spaniards know where the Socialist Party places people, because in its last stage they put more than 3.5 million Spaniards in the queue of unemployment. [[Applauds]] Allow me, Minister, to read you a 2008 news story that perfectly illustrates what I am telling you. Mr Zapatero announced more public spending to get out of the crisis and rejected any spending restraint from the point of view. What happened next, to our misfortune, we remember all the Spaniards. Mrs Montero, what a point it is to change what works satisfactorily. What makes sense to go back to the policies of waste as you propose when we know from experience that they do not work and are harmful to so many Spaniards. Mrs Montero, there is one thing that is true and you do not hide and it is your aversion to fiscal discipline. And this, despite the time, history has shown them over and over again that they are wrong, that their economic policies only bring recession and destroy the lives of many families who are condemned to unemployment. You were talking about cuts, Mrs. Montero, what cuts? What you call cuts is not such a thing, it is - and you know it perfectly well - that spending increases less than economic growth; it is about making the welfare state sustainable and, for that, the figures of the spending ceiling - which we are discussing today - and the spending rule were created. They are mechanisms that serve to ensure that public administrations do not flout their non-financial commitments in good times and have to drastically and painfully reduce them in times of tightening. In fact, they function as a brake on government spending and to protect them from the cyclical effects of the economy. If I may, Mrs Montero, I would add that the spending ceiling and the spending rule protect us from governments like yours that always lead to suffering for the middle classes. [[Applauds]] Mrs Montero, the spending ceiling we are debating today is cheating; cheating because you come here and tell us that you have agreed with the European Union a new path of deficit, and that is not true. Where is the Commission's agreement or the Ecofin agreement that supports such an assertion? I'll tell you, there's no such agreement. The agreement of the Council of Ministers that we are debating today is cheating because the document that they are presenting to us hides a tax increase of between €5500 and €7 billion, which, according to their fellow ministers, would result in increasing labour costs, increasing the cost of access to credit for individuals and businesses, or also increasing the cost of energy. You justify this fiscal hack by saying that this will boost economic growth. Mrs Montero, you do not have to be an economist to know that such a statement is a ploy of hair, another deception of this so-called government of lies, because it is nothing else that you have done since June 6th and today, unfortunately, too. Mrs Montero, the tax increases you are proposing will mean a decrease in the competitiveness of our companies, less investment and more inflation, a price increase that will reduce the purchasing power of the Spaniards by attacking another of the pillars of economic recovery such as domestic consumption, household consumption, which we will see as it decreases significantly. If we add to all this an increase in public spending of 4.4%, far above GDP growth, there is no doubt that, in the last case but inevitably, its fiscal hack will bring less economic growth, less employment and, ultimately, a halt to recovery. I told him that we were facing a path of tax consolidation, also because when you say that you will make available to the autonomous communities EUR 2400 million more than expected so far, you are again missing the truth. You do not provide any more money to the Autonomous Communities, what you are doing is allowing the Autonomous Communities to be indebted by an additional EUR 24 billion, that is to say, on the one hand, you say that the current debt of the Autonomous Communities is not sustainable - later on I will go deeper in this respect - and, at the same time, you encourage them to be indebted by EUR 24 billion more than planned and agreed with Brussels. [[applause]] Note, Mrs. Montero. How can you appeal to the responsibility of my group when it presents us with a cheating agreement, which hides a delusional, contradictory economic policy and which does not think about the future, in the medium and long term, but is only designed to cover with public money the long and costly election campaign in which Mr Sánchez has embarked since that shameful June 1. [[Applauds]] That is the great trap of their evil so-called economic policy, pretending to defend the public, the welfare state, while making it unsustainable, disguised as social policy what is only unproductive spending and political clientelism. Mrs Montero, with my parliamentary group I do not count on cheating on the Spaniards. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u13	I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance. [[Denials]] Thank you very much. In the turn of fixing positions intervenes, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Guijarro García.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u14	Good morning. Thank you, President. The Government of Mariano Rajoy supported for the most part the Organic Law 2/2012 on Budgetary Stability six years ago. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u16	This is one of the great infamys that have been perpetrated in this room, as the text protected the biggest policy of cuts that this country has known in its democratic history. The PSOE voted against, that is true, but they know that this law was born as a logical consequence, as a natural daughter of the reform of article 135 of the Constitution. [[The Lord]] Do you remember that day? It was the day when you and one another also pleaded for the impositions of bureaucrats based in Brussels and Frankfurt and forgot to defend the interests of Spain, of real Spain, of the millions of Spanish families who have purged the sins and mistakes of their political class for many years. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[pointing to the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] We know that during the process of this Stability Act the PP kept the key to the final approval of the deficit path in the Senate and did so knowing that the conservative bias of the Upper House allows them to control almost 60% of their seats with just one third of the votes. Therefore, when the time came to face this annual process, the new Government had basically two alternatives: either it agreed with the guardian of the key - that is, with the People's Party - or it proposed a reform of its own law to break out of the blockade in the Senate. By not putting forward this reform, we overunderstand that it was being negotiated with the custodian; in fact, we assume that the news brought by Minister Calviño of Brussels was intended rather to satisfy them. Of course, it was not the negotiations that we would have put forward and so we let the Government know. No one can ever say that we are not rowing in favor of the motion of censure that killed Rajoy, no one. We then offered the Government the possibility of a coalition government to support the new Executive with 156 seats instead of the current 84. You declined. And we did not insist or blame him, understanding that it was a prerogative of the candidate to whom we had all supported. Then we proposed a framework agreement of twenty concrete measures objectively feasible to meet the most urgent needs of a citizen struck by the long decade of crisis. We received a clamorous silence for response, neither reactions nor counteroffers, nothing. Now we come to this legislative trance and again nothing, ladies and gentlemen. We have not been asked about a strategy beyond the poorly outlined one through the media about the new fiscal policy that they intend to implement or an explanation of what are the real public policy commitments that they are willing to take on, just an extemporary request for help that, moreover, is purely performative, because you know that everything depends on the Senate. Keep this government safe that we are the first to want to do politics to change things, but the government will have to understand that we - and surely other parliamentary groups in this House who are also willing to help - want to discuss with you and get answers. Where will the extra EUR 2 billion per year needed to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions come from? How much money are you willing to invest to ensure accessible and dignified housing, clean and cheap energy for all? Are you going to free the municipalities of the dictatorship from the rule of spending? We need to talk about the material priorities of the country and, above all, how they are dealt with and how they are financed. So, should the government resign here? We believe that it cannot: it can put forward the reform of the Stability Act - as we have said - it can come back within a month with new objectives, or it can declare a commitment to keep the public deficit below 3% thus honouring the international agreements to which we are party, but without compromising a fetish figure that puts at risk the attention of the needs that are to be met. For us all these options are open, but none are resolved with a last-minute chrome exchange. Given the difficult parliamentary balances, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is up to Parliament. Simply, you are not in a position to serve lentils.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u17	Mr. Guijarro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u18	Yes, President. That is why our abstention today is not a no, take it rather as a frank invitation to do things right. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. I would like to supplement my colleague Txema's remarks by referring to why our confederal group is going to abstain: for economic reasons too and, fundamentally, because we believe that this spending ceiling framework - deficit targets - does not meet the needs of our country's economy and therefore does not meet the needs of working families. Let's get this straight first. This is part of the stability strategy - a euphemism to talk about cuts - approved by the European Commission with the different governments of the People's Party, whose path and objective is essentially to reduce the burden of public spending, of public investment, on GDP. In other words, there is a path of progressive and gradual cuts, which is inserted into an institutional architecture that was born with article 135 in 2011, which follows the Budget Stability Act and then continues with another series of institutions, including the expenditure rule and the expenditure ceiling. And, of course, this is incorrect in our view because it is part of the criminalization of the public, of the criminalization of public spending, when in reality, in order to effectively emerge from the crisis with a capacity to combat inequality of income, wealth and power, direct public intervention is needed. But it is obvious that we are faced with something that is the criminalization of public spending, to which the People's Party logically adds - no one trusts that - but what we did not agree is that the left could support this same path. Let us bear in mind the following. The Socialist Party is asking us what we would call a false dilemma, the fallacy of the false dilemma: if we want to choose between two evils. They are two evils because they both maintain the path of reducing public spending. I put a paradox on the table. In 2015 the spending ceiling was higher than the one proposed to us now; in 2015 - ruling the People's Party - the spending ceiling was higher than the one proposed by the Socialist Party right now; with the paradox that the economy was less rich than the current one. What does this mean? That the cake has grown, but the weight of public space is reduced. The Socialist Party and many Members who are here voted with me but not that pact and that spending ceiling. We continue to maintain the consistency that that is not positive; but we cannot be invited to think that this spending ceiling - which, I insist, is lower than the 2015 ceiling that you voted against - is better. Because it is not true, it is not better, because it corresponds to a path of lowering the weight of the public; that is, less public health, less public education, less public pensions, less social benefits. And this seems insufficient to the People's Party. We already knew that! We already knew; and more now, they have replaced Montoro with a new Friedman. [[Applauds]] But I think, of course, that can't be bought by the left. That's why I want to send the next message. In order to combat the real problems of working families in our country, to be able to advance in a much fairer and more redistributive economy, we need a much stronger state, we cannot buy the discursive and practical framework of the European Commission, which is penalizing and criminalizing public expenditure, especially that of the countries of the periphery, that of the countries of the south. This was your speech, your speech, that of the Socialist Party as well, and we continue to keep some of it at this time because I think we have an expectation that we can change this. My colleague has said this, let us address together, in an integral way, the economic policy that must be born of an alternative to the People's Party and to Citizens, and that means talking about the Law of Stability, that means talking about Article 135, the rule of spending and in an integral way of all economic policy. That way the whole House or, at least, the majority of this House - because there are enough numbers - we will be able to bring forward worthwhile policies. I think that is the way, to speak in an integral way, to address this problem. We are always going to find ourselves fighting austerity, which is the euphemism that the PP and the European Commission use to talk about cuts, but we are not going to buy cuts, we are not going to buy them, and we believe that our country will be much better if in the future public health, public education, public pensions, is more important than the private sector. That is why we cannot agree with a spending ceiling that it does is to support a strategy of dismantling the public and de-amortizing the achievements of the workers' movement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance, first of all, on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I would like to express my solidarity with all the civilian guards wounded in the assault on the border of Ceuta. [[Applauds]] Entering into the matter, more deficit, more debt, more spending and, consequently, more taxes now and in the future. This is what the expenditure ceiling agreement brings us here today by the Sánchez Government, a path of more deficit, more public debt and the highest non-financial expenditure limit in recent years, although it seems insufficient to Mr Garzón EUR 5200 million more only in the General Administration of the State. In our view, it is the abandonment of expenditure control, budgetary stability, and the aperitif of a huge rise in taxes that will burden economic growth. We will be voting against it, I am making progress; of course we will be voting against it. Do not count on Citizens to raise a single tax to the middle class of this country. [[Applauds]] It was very hard for us to convince Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro here that taxes had to be lowered and that superfluous expenditure had to be reduced and, as a result, obviously this policy, which is condensed in figures which the Minister did not mention, although she did quote a lot to Mr Mandela, ends up leading to a rise in taxes, and it is not that she wants to raise some tax, it is that at the moment we have eight tax increases: to the self-employed, to the families, to the estates in the autonomous communities, to the drivers of diesel cars, to the companies - theoretically to the big companies, but in practice to anyone who bills, that is to sell more than 8 million euros - to the investors in technological companies and even to the workers via social security contributions. Finally, an increase in taxes to everyone who crosses the road to finance - and I will quote Mr Montoro here - a drunkard of public spending. Finally, we will vote against it, which does not suit us. Having listened to you, Mrs Montero, anyone would say that in Spain there is no economic growth or collection to support the welfare state. Well, the reality is that even though it seems to you insufficient to collect - you can always collect more -, during the first five months - which are the latest data published in the Tax Agency - the tax collection has reached the maximum in all taxes except in the corporation tax, and the overall collection of these first five months is the highest in history. Under these conditions, what is being seen is that a fiscal and tax policy that has begun to function, for example, as a result of our agreements with the previous Government, can be put into practice precisely because of an indiscriminate rise in taxes. Moreover, there is no need because you talk here about many reports, but the reality is that in 2017 we have had the lowest public deficit for ten years and it is the first time in ten years that we have met the deficit target. In this respect, what you voted for in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, like Podemos and the separatists, was 'no' to everything. In view of this, what alternative do you propose? Firstly, to smooth the deficit path, that is to say, to further indebt us. The Sánchez Government, as has already been said here, has unilaterally communicated to the European Commission that the gap between revenue and expenditure will be 0.5 points higher in the next three years, i.e. that it wants to spend EUR 6 billion more per year or that it wants to spend more - about EUR 20 billion - by the end of the parliamentary term. This government wants the country with the most deficit in the European Union to abandon budgetary stability. For the time being, the European Commission has taken note. You may have granted us this permission, but, of course, it wasn't going to be free. In Europe and nowhere, four pesetas are hard hit. Debt will always entail higher taxes and lower expenses in the future. We'll all pay for it, not just in the future. Abandoning budgetary stability always poses a greater risk to the people who buy us our debt, which demands greater interest, and this, once the European Central Bank's relaxation policy is over - and there is not much left - we will pay for it with greater interest. According to the plans of this government, the autonomous communities will be able to spend an additional 25 billion, the social security as well as the state, although they tell us that it will only increase by 1 tenth, the reality that they bring us is a limit of spending of more than 5 billion euros, that is, a growth, following the line of Podemos - although it has not seemed enough to them - of 4.4% above economic growth. This, in practice, is a tax hike to try to square accounts that start from a series of occurrences. This Government does not want to carry out any reform that enhances economic growth, it has not announced any anti-fraud measures - except whitening some countries that were on the tax haven list - it has done the easiest thing: to raise taxes. The list of taxes the Socialist Party wants to raise... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u23	Wait a minute, Mr. De la Torre, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would beg your silence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u24	They believe that they will not pay the taxes, but they are wrong, they will end up paying them; we will all pay them, because the list is simply impressive. They want to raise taxes, for example, to diesel car drivers, that is to say, to more than ten million people; that must be to finance the kerosene spending of the presidential plane to see concerts. [[Applauds]] We want to establish a tax that they want to call tax on the bank, but that in practice will affect the customers of financial institutions, which we are all. We want to set a minimum rate of 15% on corporate tax, we want to set a tax on financial transactions, we want to increase contributions to self-employed workers and companies, in the end, in practice to everyone who moves. We are facing the aperitif of a massive rise in taxes, and the key to this rise in taxes is this spending ceiling. Well, then, of course, we will vote against the key to a massive tax increase, because, why do we want to pay more taxes over and over end up in debt? I tell you: the government wants it to finance the most expensive election campaign in history and, of course, it will - if it succeeds - with our vote against it. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, if you want to go back to Zapatero's path, to the idea of uncontrolled spending, of the PlanE, of waste, the least you could do to radically change the policy is to go through the ballot box and consult the Spanish; that is the least. If you do not want to do that anymore, it would also be advisable for you to try to negotiate ahead of time to approve the figures, which is what you should have done, especially because you have a very important roof that you may not have noticed; your roof is 84 seats, which is not a majority to massively raise taxes on the Spaniards or to change a fiscal policy derived from the Citizens' agreements with the previous government that was functioning so far. We do not believe that this spending ceiling agreement, derived from a misguided fiscal policy, has the slightest chance of passing the parliamentary examination, not even today's Congress. We therefore hope that the new agreement which the Government will have to forward to this House within one month will be negotiated in advance of the figures. In any case, Citizens will vote no to this spending ceiling; we will vote no to more deficit, more spending, more waste and, of course, we will vote no to more taxes. We will vote against the Spanish financing Pedro Sánchez the longest and most expensive election campaign in history. We believe that the Spaniards deserve something else, they deserve a sensible economic policy and not the start of a path anywhere. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u26	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister, deputies and deputies. The Catalan economy grew by 3.4% in 2017, above the euro area average - 2.4% - and above the whole of Spain - by 3.1%. Therefore, it grew at a very high rate despite the institutional tensions that we all know. Interquarterly growth was 0.9%. The first data for 2018 confirm the same rate of growth, with 0.8% in the first quarter of the year. In the fourth quarter of 2017 the GDP of the Catalan economy recorded a growth of 3.5% and in the first quarter of this year the growth has been of 3.4%. It is therefore a robust and balanced growth, with strong external sector leadership and a more balanced growth pattern between internal and external demand. In the industrial sector, growth remained well above the EU average, with a fabric capable of stimulating innovation, export capacity and improving production processes. Tourism is the driving force behind the Catalan economy. Last year specifically Catalonia received 19 million tourists, 5% more than in the previous year, and tourist spending increased by 9.6%. Export growth continued last year, growing by 8.7% compared to 2016 and representing 25.6% of the Spanish state's total exports. Catalonia, therefore, has gained world market share in recent years. The Catalan economy, moreover, shows a high attractiveness of productive foreign investment, with an average income of €4 billion in the last five years, 34% more than in the previous five, and a great increase in investment in technology enterprise centres, which - already a reality - in the coming months will increase thanks to the investment announcements of many companies. In the occupation section, last year's data were also positive, with the creation of 15,600 jobs, with an increase of 2.9%, with data from the EPA, and an increase of 3.8% in social security membership. In recent years the Generalitat has made a huge effort to contain the deficit, which in 2015 was 2.8% and last year was 0.56%, meeting the deficit set by the State, which was 0.6%. We can therefore summarise that since 2014 the Catalan economy has had a more balanced and sustainable growth, with positive contributions both from domestic and external demand, with an important role for industry, tourism and exports and with a high demand for investment and the establishment of foreign companies. All these positive data were obtained despite the lack of public investment in Catalonia in the successive General Budgets of the State, the low or no execution of all the budgeted and with a suffocating spending ceiling that leaves little room for manoeuvre to the Generalitat and the municipalities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u27	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u28	Nor can we forget - and we will remember this whenever we need it - the chronic fiscal deficit that Catalonia suffers from year after year. The year in which the method is calculated and used is calculated, the country is currently suffering from a fiscal deficit of 8% of its GDP: EUR 11 billion per year, according to the Ministry's calculations, or EUR 16 billion per year, according to the Generalitat's estimates. All these positive facts, which make us optimistic about the immediate future, have been achieved despite those who threatened us with the ten biblical plagues because of the independence process, those who told us that Catalonia's GDP would fall 30% if we put ballot boxes and voted our future or those who cooked with night and light with companies of IBEX 35 a decree for the express flight of companies to harm the Catalan economy on purpose. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] All these positive data have been achieved despite having a whole State against it. Can you imagine what we could do with a state in favor, which is what we want? Minister, today it presents us with a ceiling of expenditure whose distribution does not comply with the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and which, although it is true that it represents a small breath for the autonomous communities, is insufficient. We have come from a few years in which the autonomous communities, especially Catalonia, as we have already pointed out, have made a huge effort to contain the public deficit at the expense of the State, which has taken advantage of this effort to contain its deficit, since otherwise it would not have been possible. Those administrations, such as the municipalities, which are closer to the citizens and provide basic and necessary services of vital importance, have been punished. Minister, for all the above, our group is not going to support your proposal, because it does not respond to the needs of the Catalan public administrations, because it has not been worked with this group and because it could have been signed quietly by Minister Montoro. Minister, you can take the floor whenever you want; I encourage you to come up here and commit yourself to already submit an amendment to this law to enable you to agree on a new and, if possible, more expansive spending ceiling that the People's Party will not then remove with its absolute majority in the Senate. What you call the Catalan problem is not solved with a good face, a couple of tenths more public deficits and tweets in Catalan, because, paraphrasing the great and long-suffering Ovidi Montllor, they no longer feed us soft, but we want the pa senter. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u30	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. Madam Minister, today we are debating for your approval the proposal to set the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations, in which the Government, as you have also said, reports the limit of non-financial expenditure within the fiscal consolidation path in the framework of European supervision; a path that has of course been criticized by our group, as we understood that growth and reduction of these variables should have been accompanied so that the life of citizens would have been less affected. The Government requested a study from the AIReF on the macroeconomic and budgetary scenario 2018-2019 and, supporting it, has revised the deficit target proposed by the previous Government for 2018, raising it to 2.7, in order to avoid having to present budgetary results with a strong deviation, a revision that also compromises the 2019, 2020 and 2021 objectives, since important adjustments must be made in this triennium, 9 tenths for 2019 and 7 tenths for both 2020 and 2021, in an economy, above all, in deceleration. This adjustment, being consistent with what has been claimed in this House by the Socialist Group in previous years, seems to take place also through revenue, in order to avoid cuts in public spending and try to comply with the measures that have been announced to us. Our group has analysed the government's proposal, the flexibility of the objective, taking into account that it has been negotiated with Brussels and that it is also better and better adapted to the economic reality. However, despite the fact that these objectives negotiated with Brussels are better than those of 2018, we still believe that the distribution of deficit targets between subsectors is arbitrary and does not meet an economic criterion. In addition, they are symmetrical objectives that do not take into account the relative position of each sector - local communities and entities - and that, specifically, in the case of outlying communities, do not take into account their fiscal autonomy, which allows them to make spending decisions financed with increased taxes that they regulate. With these stability objectives it can be said that the first transitional provision of the Budget Stability Act, which provides that the distribution of the objectives between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities will be made taking into account the structural deficit of each Administration, is still not complied with. Therefore, objectives continue to be set which, being symmetrical, seem inadequate for each sector, which some will be able to achieve laxly and others will hardly achieve. The AIReF has also told us to establish sector-specific objectives and the need for the autonomous communities to contribute both to the process of distributing these objectives and to their elaboration, focusing above all on their relative situation in terms of feasibility, equity and spending rules, although we also understand that this would require greater coordination, greater solidarity and therefore negotiation and agreement. It does not seem prudent, therefore, to continue with deficit targets that systematically fail the State and Social Security at the cost of compliance and overcompliance of the autonomous communities and local entities. We therefore believe that differentiated objectives would be needed. Despite the fact that more oxygen is granted to governments to implement policies that affect people's well-being, it should not be forgotten that both autonomous communities and local entities are limited by the famous spending rule, a spending rule that our group has requested on numerous occasions to be reviewed, also by the ruling party today, and that prevents the autonomous communities and municipalities from using their available surplus; a rule that states that annual public expenditure growth should not exceed a potential growth rate of GDP in the medium term, a limit that is also lower than the actual growth potential in the medium term and therefore reduces the decision-making capacity of administrations. Already in your appearance you yourself declared yourself autonomous and said that who questions at this time the territorial architecture in the matter of consolidation of the state of autonomy is questioning the state of welfare, because they are the ones that are providing the citizens the services closest to their needs, and defended that this rule of spending has limited the margin of action of municipalities and autonomous communities and that it has not been applied at the time of the timely cycle. In the current situation, we believe that once the deficit and debt targets are met for public administrations, the savings and surplus generated should be devoted to meeting the needs of this citizenry. You have already announced to us a relaxation of the spending rule at a later time, and we hope and hope that it will be so and that it will not be a failed attempt again, like that of the previous Government; as you will know, there is a proposal for a law on which to work in this regard, and we understand that we must move from sayings to facts. On the other hand, and as I have said before, it seems that the path chosen to achieve this deficit objective, among other things, is that of income, through the modification of existing taxes and through the creation of new tax figures. In this respect, we would like to know the specific conditions that arise, since we must not forget that the face winds, geopolitical tensions and the disappearance of stimulus from the European Central Bank are stalking, and internal risks have not disappeared, and I am referring to the polarisation of the labour market, high unemployment, indebtedness, low productivity of the economy and also inequality. Our group therefore understands that, in the event of any reform of the tax system, it must be comprehensive and progressive, that it operates in the long term and that it has as a priority both the incentive of economic activity, avoiding any distorting effect on growth, and the sufficiency of income to maintain expenditure and social cohesion. In this regard, our group is in favour of working together as soon as debates and decisions on reform of the tax system take place, but always from the basic principle of strict respect for our fiscal self-government and our regulatory capacity. We will have to analyse what types of taxes are, what objectives they have and, in case of new taxes, we will need their concertation in the Joint Committee of the concert. With regard to the expenditure ceiling, it is higher, higher than nominal GDP growth - a condition, by the way, that other groups have been demanding - and this is because the agreed deficit is higher than previously expected and because it implies this rise in taxes, but we must not forget that the fixing of the ceiling is a management instrument and, therefore, a higher level of income will allow a higher level of expenditure as long as the objective of stability is met. This means that it is necessary to make an accurate estimate in the collection, not only through the creation of taxes, but also through the control of tax fraud, which will help to improve the existing gap in tax collection compared to the rest of the European Union. However, it must be said that this debate on the expenditure ceiling is a macro debate - with no more data than those on the macro table and on the deficit target distributed by institutional levels - and, therefore, speculative, that if they do not materialise in concrete policies that reverse the improvement of people of nothing value, and this is achieved above all through budgetary policy, since monetary policy is in Europe's hands. What really matters to us is the implementation of the budget figures, that is where we will see the priorities and bets of the Executive. Now we can only show our reservations about economic policy, being aware that we are still in a complex situation, in which the decisions to be taken are complex and in which it is absolutely necessary to find the balance between continuing on the path of economic growth, so that it reaches the citizenry and improves the quality of life of people with adequate policies, and to square the accounts until the exit of the excessive deficit procedure. In this complex environment, my group asks you, Minister, to be aware of the above aspects, to take into account, for the reasons set out above, the possibility of differentiating deficit targets and to review in the short term the design and application of the expenditure rule, as well as the agreement and negotiation on the tax system to be agreed with the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. That is why, and with all these qualifications, our group is going to vote in favour, because we value that, in a climate of bilaterality and institutional respect, we will be able to get closer to positions until we achieve a much more rational application of the rules and adjusted to our own social and economic reality so that we can achieve the balance between public accounts and more equitable economic growth. Furthermore, we are aware of the limitations of European governance in the current context and, therefore, of the need for political and economic stability. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u32	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you started your speech by quoting President Obama and President Mandela. With reference to President Mandela, I will remind you that there are currently political prisoners in Spain, as was President Mandela. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yes, there are political prisoners on a preventive basis for alleged crimes that are not recognized either in Germany, Belgium, Scotland or Switzerland. [[Rumors.-The Madam President takes the Chair]] Minister, you've come up to the rostrum to fight a little against those we're not going to support, and I'm going to try to answer without acrid. Look, one, two, three, four... eighty-one, eighty-two, eighty-three and eighty-four. [[Counts pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] When you have eighty-four Members from three hundred and fifty, you first have to agree and agree and then approve. When you approve, make decisions unilaterally, do not consent and come to seek agreement later, you can experience what is happening right now to your Government. Be modest. We're in the mood to cooperate. Minister, if today you won't have half the vote your president had to be president, you might have to do some self-criticism and wonder why this is happening. Good will cannot be confused with a mere contract of accession. They will have to bring new objectives, they will have to, and we urge them to do so in a positive way. Take them out early, Minister. Perhaps they would also have to prevent the Senate from establishing a veto that cannot be lifted. When they tried to make the pact between Citizens and PSOE a few months ago - which did not come out - they proposed to amend the Organic Law of Budget Stability so that the veto of the Senate would be lifted by Congress. I don't understand how they didn't see it this time. In any case, Minister, we have some red lines. The municipalities don't ask for a deficit. They don't need to have more deficit because they generate surplus. What the municipalities are asking of you, Minister, is that the interpretation of the expenditure rule be changed immediately, and for this, with an amendment of the IGAE criteria is sufficient. Madam Minister, I have only three minutes and therefore I say to you that we have all the courage to cooperate and all the courage to agree, but things are agreed before and not after. Let me tell you without any reproach that you only called our group on Saturday morning after you've approved all the targets. He's had no other contact with our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you know very well - but that very well - that what you are presenting to us today is a step forward, it is true, but it is not enough to regain financial autonomy. You know very well that giving greater scope to an autonomous community that precisely has an income problem can even be counterproductive. How can we invest more if we do not have the resources to invest in social policy or other policy? What good is it for our people more space when they don't have enough resources? That's the dilemma. You know better than anyone that we contribute, via the sufficiency fund, 1350 million euros a year, and what is offered is 220 million. The difference is a contribution of EUR 1130 million per year. A poor community contributing, through the sufficiency fund, to rich communities and also to the State. That, very progressive isn't. In addition, a debt of 46 billion is added to this and we are now being offered to restructure 1000, i.e. only 2% of the debt. Either there's a debt relief or this is gonna be very difficult. You know this, you know it very well and so do the Valencian Socialists, because we think about this absolutely the same thing. Madam Minister, you have asked us for an opportunity and confidence and you have also asked us for time to study the measures that will enable us to end this democratic anomaly represented by the Valencian Community. He's got the alternatives, we've given them to him, and we're gonna give him confidence. Interpret this abstention as a vote of confidence. You know what the measures are for this abstention to become a yes; the Botànic Government, of Socialists and Compromises, transmitted it to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. That's why we voted with Ximo Puig today. I'm done. We remain open to dialogue, we remain politically courageous and we continue to dialogue so that this abstention becomes a yes in September. So to study and in September I'll see you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u36	Thank you very much. The Government is talking about a more flexible scenario with deficit targets, but we understand that the substantial does not vary. It continues to set a spending limit, he says, consistent with budgetary stability and the expenditure rule, which, while being more flexible, continues to force revenue to be allocated above what is fully foreseen to reduce the level of public debt. To understand each other, we could say that we have gone from 'even if you have money you can't spend it' to 'you can spend on what I allow you'. Therefore, having made the deficit target more flexible does not change our position by the same arguments that we have not supported in the previous two years. It does not take into account the deep differences between territories, it applies a coffee for all, a uniformity to the low in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa. We do not take into account our economic reality, our best starting point and, therefore, we are prevented from a deficit limit appropriate to our socio-economic characteristics. It is a reality that is repeated in all areas, both local and autonomous. Nor do we accept the attack on competences and autonomy contained in the Stability Act, which limits the possibilities of local entities to act in the face of the nearest social needs. It has already been said here: municipalities which, although having a surplus and a fully controlled debt, find themselves unable to respond to the demands of their citizens. The debt bill is being paid by the administrations that have less responsibility for it and that offer citizens a higher level of essential public services. This limits, in order to promote the economic development that our territory requires, to act against inequality, to guarantee well-being and, ultimately, to respond to social needs. In view of this situation, we insist on defending the right to be able to decide on our borrowing policies, on the rhythms and priorities, and we aim to assert our right to decide our policies and to negotiate subsequently with the State, in application of a true bilaterality, which is in no way to accept what the Government decides and ultimately also to agree with the rest of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Members of the Executive present here, I would like to record in the Journal of Sessions the political will that they have presented, both the Minister of Finance with her call to the Navarro People's Union and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for reaching agreements. In any case, we have already informed you, Minister, that we are not going to vote in favour of this expenditure ceiling, for two basic reasons. Firstly, because the economic situation we are experiencing is not the time to spend more, but to spend better, and therefore public investment and prioritisation of expenditure must be improved in terms of efficiency. Secondly, because we are not in the process of taxing the Spaniards at this economic moment - as I indicated - much less in an increase in debt, to spend today and that our children and our children's children will pay the debt that we are going to generate today. So what I would also like to convey to you, Minister, is that I find it unfair or wrong to argue that if we do not vote in favour of the spending ceiling we are against policies that improve dependence in this country or the universalisation of health. We don't agree. I encourage this Executive to bring concrete proposals for the improvement of dependence, bringing concrete improvements in social inclusion, the improvement of persons with disabilities, dependents, elderly or underprivileged, who will find this party, Union del Pueblo Navarro, eager to agree and negotiate for the good of the Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Finance, Forum opposes the spending ceiling proposed by the government of Pedro Sánchez, because we already know the results of imitating Zapatero, which are no more than the impoverishment and sinking of employment. [[Rumors]] Dedicating oneself to personal marketing with solidarity, making European leaders believe that Sánchez's Spain is jauja - just look at Algeciras or the front pages in the newspapers with the massive and violent assault on the border fence of Ceuta -. Up taxes,...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u42	... financing the letter to squandering autonomies and increasing the deficit will ruin an economy that is still trying to resurrect the severe crisis of the ailing years of its socialist predecessors. It should be remembered that with Pedro Sánchez's own votes, after occupying here in September 2009 the vacancy of Pedro Solbes, as a deputy, that government of Zapatero led the then balanced economy of our country to dig a devastating black hole between 2008 and 2011 of 33.5 points of gross domestic product, equivalent to 360 billion euros, according to the official data of evolution of the deficit of the Bank of Spain. It was broken down: 4.5 per cent in 2008; 11.2 per cent in 2009; 9.3 per cent in 2010 and 8.5 per cent in 2011. A blow to the Spanish economy, I repeat, EUR 360 billion, which brought the corresponding accumulated deficit that citizens have to pay, turned into public debt, whose interests and depreciation put economic growth, employment and pensions in Spain at enormous risk. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, from the Canary Islands you know that we are putting forward an individualised spending rule so that in those communities that have met the criteria of budgetary stability, the surplus can be allocated to essential services: education, health, social policies and employment. We have met the deficit and debt criteria, and now we see how those who have not met are rewarded. The proposal we propose is that for those communities that present surplus, in terms of national accounts, that meet the public debt target in 2017, and that in addition these requirements are met in the forecast of the end of 2018, they have an individualized spending rule. This will not entail any expenditure for the State, nor will it harm other communities, since it is about spending what comes from our own collection, a figure that in the Canary Islands would be around 598 million euros. We believe that it is only a matter of political will. It is a proposal that fits and is consistent with the State's strategy of giving oxygen to the autonomous communities - as long as the funding system is not addressed - so that they can pay for essential public services, so that some communities are allowed more deficit and others, to approve the canary proposal, to use the surplus, and all the same to improve the delivery of public services. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you the following. If you today commit yourself to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which will be held next Tuesday 31, to assume the differentiated application of the expenditure rule for 2019 for the autonomous communities that, like the Canary Islands, present surplus, both in 2017 and in their forecasts for 2018, this Member would today give you the vote and support, although she does not need it, even if this proposal will not come out. If we do not vote we will not, although we will continue to talk over the next month to continue trying to reach bridges and solve a topic that, for Don Pedro Sánchez and Mrs Sumelzo, was the same a year ago. Now you are in the government, before you were in the opposition, but you considered this to be the coherent discourse, and not why will you make efforts if you reward the one you have not fulfilled? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Madam Minister, despite being in a context of insufficient dialogue, which needs to be improved, we have nevertheless appreciated your willingness to defend public services and to try to develop actions that place people at the centre of the objectives of State policies, for a change. We have appreciated this positively. We have also welcomed the increase in the tax effort that should be progressively requested of those who have the most. However, we have also positively appreciated the increase of the 5 tenths in the deficit target that allows to improve the public spending potential of some of the autonomous communities and local corporations. But it is also true that, how with this rule of spending do we correct situations such as those in the Canary Islands? How do we correct those communities or local corporations that have fulfilled and that have a surplus, having pressing and obvious social needs, a deterioration of their absolutely scandalous public services, such as the Canary Islands, we have money in the bank without the possibility of acting on the real problems of the people? This is a contradiction that must be resolved by changing the spending rule, and we tell you that we are going to give a critical yes to this proposal that you bring. A critical yes because we believe that it is necessary to improve the correlation of the actions between those that do not comply and those that do, and what is not reasonable is that the corporations that do, in a huge scenario of needs like the one that has Canaries, are rich in the bank and poor in their actions from the point of view of the people. Therefore a critical yes, hoping that we will agree on the need to make the spending rule as formulated at this time more flexible. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's debate on the path of budgetary stability we are starting, as the Minister has said, the parliamentary process for drawing up the general state budgets for 2019. As you all know and have explained Mrs Montero what is being voted on today is the path of deficit and public debt in relation to GDP for the next three years, 2019, 2020 and 2021. Alongside this, the government informs this House of the non-financial expenditure limit for 2019, which amounts to EUR 125,064 million, a 4.4 more than the one approved for 2018, which is over 3 tenths of the projected increase in nominal GDP, which is 4.1, that is, increases public spending on GDP, Mr Garzón, and starts to change the policies of the right. What the Government is presenting to this House means an increase in non-financial expenditure of €5230 million, in order to meet mainly the social agenda that this country needs, plus the availability of increased funding from the administrations for the amount of €6 billion, through the reduction of the deficit target by 5 tenths of GDP in 2019, of which 2500 go to autonomous communities for expenditure on health, education, dependency, housing, 2500 to Social Security and a point of reduction goes to the State, which is already included in the calculation of the expenditure limit. To this is added a greater flexibility in the calculation of the rule of spending, which also benefits municipalities and autonomous communities, and a gradual reduction of the immense mountain of public debt left us by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] It is a good stability path for Spain and the Spanish, and it has been negotiated and agreed with Brussels. That is why it would not be understood that parties in this House would want to punish all Spaniards with stricter budgetary obligations, with more cuts than those demanded by Brussels, except for short-term political calculations or the desire for revenge of some political party that has lost power or of some other party that made the sky visible in the polls. Lords of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the project approved by the government implies an availability of more public spending of about 10 billion euros between the state, autonomous communities and Social Security for the year 2019 to meet social demands, is a serious bet of the left. Do not stay in political calculations that harm people and support this path of spending. We ask them to be responsible, think of the people. Because, does anyone doubt that it is better to have EUR 6 billion of funding margin, of which 2500 go to the autonomous communities to reverse cutback policies and strengthen the welfare state services, than not to have that margin? Does anyone really doubt that a target of at least 1.8% is better than a deficit of at least 1.3% for 2019? If even Montoro had signed this path of stability - I see you have changed your seat, Mr Montoro -. The non-financial spending limit may not, but that is not voted on, the path is. Or would you not, Mr Montoro, have voted at least 1.8%? If you and your Government were also experts in non-compliance with the stability objectives, you did not meet any year's deficit targets attributable to your management, the State and Social Security accounts, and you were expert in requesting changes to the deficit path. In the words of the PP spokesman, Mr Olano, a delusional policy. He studied it three times, in 2012, in 2013 and 2016, and this year because they are not in the government, which had also asked for it, because they presented a deficit target of at least 2.2% for 2018, which they knew they were not going to meet. And these days the AIReF has confirmed that the deficit of the year 2018 will reach at least 2.7% basically for aid to the rescue of the banks, highways and imbalances in the expected income of the Social Security; non-compliances as a result of decisions of your government and examples of mismanagement, Mr Montoro. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they asked the opposition parties for responsibility from the government, and the PSOE gave them its support to the stability path in 2016. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u49	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u50	The only time the adjustment took place through an increase in income and not through a cut in expenditure. Then we were against his budget proposal, ideologically and unjustly, and we voted no. Gentlemen of the PP, do in the opposition what they were preaching in the government. Be responsible, support the path of stability, which is good for this country and for all the Spaniards, because the no to the path of stability of the government has a cost for the Spaniards of 6 billion euros, in lower social benefits and in cuts of expenditure; 6 billion euros of cost for the Spaniards. Be responsible, do not punish the Spanish and Spanish for the loss of the Government. We ask you for responsibility, a vision of State and the ability to put the interests of this country before those of your party. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, I ask you not to exclude yourselves from reaching political agreements with this government. They have an obsession with the People's Party, they tend to mingle with them, they support them in many things: budgets, a motion of censure, a path of stability, a discourse of fiscal demagogy as a political tool, but precisely what has punished the working middle class of this country the most, the young, the unemployed, the pensioners have been the policies of cuts and of increasing the inequality of the People's Party, which you have supported over the past two years. Citizens, I am not clear what your ideological position is, but your defense of less spending and less taxation is an ideological position against citizens, who share with the People's Party. They want to continue with austerity, reduce public spending and public revenue, condemn this country to the tail van of the welfare state in Europe, open new business doors to the private sector in basic services for citizens - private health, private education, private pensions -. We can't be against your model any more. Look, the commitment to the budgetary stability of this government is clear, but it is also the commitment to economic growth, the creation of decent jobs, a fairer distribution of growth, and the recovery of rights and public services damaged during the crisis, which will be reflected in the General Budgets of the State of 2019, as announced by the Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero. The budgetary stability path presented by this Government makes it possible to combine these approaches. Can you oppose it? It is legitimate, it is the game of politics, but I ask the right orange to the right blue to go out on the street and explain that they want to impose greater rigour and budget cuts on the Spanish and Spanish than those requested by the European Commission. [[Applauds]] You don't even understand Brussels! They go out on the street and explain that they are opposed to providing the autonomous communities with more financial capacity to make hospitals, schools, scholarships for students, to reduce waiting lists for dependency or to attack child poverty. Come out and explain it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have listened attentively to the spokespersons of all groups, and I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that today the citizens of this country have more reason to trust this government. [[Applauds]] They have more reason and more reason to know that this Government is going to make the defence of citizens' interests compatible with commitments to budgetary stability, and we will do so from rigour, from responsibility, from wisdom, but also from sensitivity. The excuses have been different, if I may say so, which we have heard this morning, but the reality is that this country had a chance today to start the first steps in that reversal of the damage caused by the crisis, and yet the political formations present in this House have shown their refusal to support it. But this Government will insist, we will continue to work tirelessly so that citizens can enjoy these improvements. And I will begin, if I may, on this side of the House. Mr. Spokesman of the PP made disqualifications from politics when he came up to this rostrum, and there was one that drew particular attention to me. You've been talking about cheats. [[Rumors]] The People's Party with its budgetary policy cannot speak of cheaters, because there is no more trap in a budget than those which the People's Party has directed. [[Applauds]] It has not fulfilled any year with stability and has had revenues that it did not expect to raise and policies that the People's Party did not intend to implement year after year. So you can't talk about cheats. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u53	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u54	But, you see, sometimes I wonder if it is worse for a leader of the People's Party to come up to that rostrum and have a patter on the issues relating to which they have lost power or that Mr Sánchez has won the motion of censure, and therefore that his actions are conducted from that resentment and from that grudge, or that they express here a DNA of defense of a policy of cuts, of diminishing citizens' rights, of contempt for public health and public education as they have done today. [[Protests]] [[Applauds]] I don't know what's worse. I don't know what part of the speech we have to stay. It is probably the two, probably what is behind it is a deep conviction that the problem of this country is a problem of public spending, that this is no longer defended by anyone, and therefore the crisis has shown this that everyone agrees that it is a crisis that has essentially its problem in income, the People's Party rises here, after the suffering of the citizens, and again tells the citizens that its policy is more cutbacks. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That is what the People's Party has done today. [[Applauds]] And we are not going to share it, ladies and gentlemen, because when Brussels allows governments to... [[Rumors.-Protests of Sicilia Alferez]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u55	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Sicilia too, silence. [[Sicilia Alferez: But if it comes from there!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the presidency is leading it all of a sudden, so silence everyone except the minister. Go ahead, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u56	Thank you, President. He said that it is difficult to explain to the citizens, as the socialist spokesman said, that when Brussels itself understands that the configuration of the 2018 budgets will not meet the path of stability, and therefore do not force us to make a leap higher than the one envisaged by the previous path, the People's Party continues to strive to establish itself in a policy of cuts that it has made here in the morning. And the exaltation of the People's Party's cut-off policy is offensive to citizens, to those who lost their jobs and to people who are having a very bad time after this long-lasting crisis. [[Applauds]] Mr De la Torre, I have listened to you carefully and believe me that it has been an indifferent speech to me that you have made with what the People's Party has made. You who wanted to occupy the spheres of the center or the space of the center, you have made here a speech that you have said textually that you are not going to defend anything that increases public spending. That's what you said here today. [[Applauds]] What does that mean, Mr. De la Torre? That you are going to privatize public services and that you are not going to improve civil servants' salaries? Looks like you don't care and I don't. It seems to me essential that we continue to make progress in the recovery of rights, and that we make it compatible with our commitment to budgetary stability, which is what this Government has brought today for discussion. You'll see. You will see inside the right how you are the champions of the cuts, to see who makes a speech that allows you to carry that approach that you were doing more thoroughly. Because today we're not talking about taxes, Mr. De la Torre, you'll be playing. He'll be talking about taxation by now! [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u58	It is already up to us to talk about taxation when this Parliament has to discuss this matter, when we have to come and discuss this matter, but do not lie, Mr De la Torre, this government is not going to raise taxes on citizens, small businesses, the self-employed or the middle class in this country. [[Applauds.-Protests]] He's not gonna do it now, he's not gonna do it. [[Applauds]] If you confuse the big corporations with the middle class or the workers of this country, make them look at it, because you are indeed wrong. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] We will continue to work so that the autonomous communities that provide public services to citizens in health, in education, in dependence, in that which redistributes wealth, can count on the resources they need, and therefore do not continue to subject the welfare state to the cuts to which we were accustomed by the People's Party. That is our commitment and we will continue to develop it. Ladies and gentlemen on this side of the House, there are times when abstention is not a sign of equidistance, and this was a clear example. Their abstention is a no, it is an impossibility for the path to prosper, it can even go to the debate in the Senate. To profile is not what the citizens of the progressive formations of this House expect. [[Applauds]] We have to risk and bet, because we have to be able to build a different majority. I tell you one thing: this government is going to continue to bring initiatives to this House, it is going to continue to do so and it is going to discuss it in advance at the dialogue tables, in the talks and in the negotiation, but if there is no progress this government will put in this Parliament the discussion that citizens deserve, because it is transparent what everyone wants and it is allowed to know what everyone can and wants, which is different. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that on the last day we have made some progress on some issues, beyond the outcome of the vote, but the progressive majority in this country must be able to agree on improvements in people's lives, and to avoid that the decisions of advantageousism are more shortsighted and weigh more than the well-being of the citizens. We must work together to move in the right direction, and whoever does not will have to explain it to all the people, will have to explain why when there is a chance that this country can have an additional 6 billion, compatible with budgetary stability, this Congress of Members does not give it to it. [[Applauds]] This will have to be explained by the various training courses on health, education, dependency or pensions. They have to explain this, because the majorities are not built from short-term or political advantage, they are built with serious bets, with bets that allow citizens to really know that politics is useful to them, because it improves their day-to-day. [[applause]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Today was the day this Congress of Deputies had to launch, that it sent a message of hope and illusion out of this House to the citizenry, and I tell you that if this Congress does not, the Government of this country will continue to do so, will continue to try, no matter how hard it may be for some. [[Applauds]] Those people who know me know that I am an irredent optimist, as I define myself, a person who always trusts that there is a chance of further progress, but that I am in a party and I am in a government that are daily fighting for the well-being of people, and that are defending hard the issues that are of social justice. We, comrades and companions, feel, today more than ever, like citizens than this country, who fight in the day-to-day, despite setbacks, for raising their heads, dignifying themselves and seeking the well-being of their families and the people they want. [[Applauds]] We represent them today and we will continue to represent them, and therefore we will continue to work tirelessly and fighting for all that we believe contributes to equal opportunities, to social justice, and ultimately to the fact that every day the citizens of this country can live a little better. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u59	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Montero, you don't seem to like me saying that this was a tricky deal, but let me remind you that you have a history. In 2009, you presented to this House a deficit target of 1.6% and left it at 11%, 117 billion euros of fufo left us the Socialist Party. [[applause]] I regret that I have not defeated one of the statements I made in my first speech. I'll just insist a little bit on some reasons why we're going to give them the no. The first, because we are against bilateral payments, dark and without transparency that Mr Sánchez negotiates with those who supported him in the motion of censure. [[Applauds]] We believe in the equality of the Spaniards and not in the existence of first-rate Spaniards, to which Mr Sánchez gives, and second-rate Spaniards, to whom Mr Sánchez takes away. My group will never allow it. The Spanish are the same, all with the same rights and obligations. We will tell you that not also because we are against non-productive indebtedness at a time of economic expansion, which is what you propose. They don't talk about more funding, they talk about the autonomous communities being able to get even more debt and at the same time they say that the autonomous communities have an unsustainable debt. The first thing you have to do, Mrs Montero, is to clarify yourself. [[Applauds]] You, instead of taking advantage of this moment of increased tax collection, which I remind you that it is in record numbers, to reduce deficit and debt, propose to relax the deficit reduction and increase debt in the next three years, and you do so knowing that in 2019 you are going to raise the rates, Mrs Montero; you know that. Finally - and this is a red line for the People's Party - we will say no because we are not in favour of taxing the Spanish, especially the middle classes. Who do you want to fool that your waste is going to be paid by the rich? Are the 17 million Spaniards who have a diesel car rich or leaders of IBEX companies? Are the near- and mid-distance users, whose ticket went up yesterday, the rich in this country? Will banks not increase the cost of credit and commissions to all users with their tax on the bank? Are you able to say without blushing, Minister, that labour costs will not affect the competitiveness of our companies? In short, I urge you, we will vote no on the return to Mr Zapatero's failed policies, which we already know where they lead us: crisis and unemployment. Finally, I would simply like to say that they abandon that absurd and foolish idea of breaking the law, in this case an organic law, in order to avoid the Senate's control over the objectives of stability and public debt. Skipping the law, which is nothing other than the expression of the will of society as a whole, is not an option for a democratic Government, and it is already advanced that the People's Parliamentary Group will not allow it. We do not allow it to some of your partners, nor will we allow it to you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u61	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u62	Madam Minister, before I spoke of the fallacy of the false dilemma, which the spokesman of the Socialist Group has again raised, but you may also know the parable of the boiled frog. The parable of the boiled frog presents a scenario in which, hypothetically always, a pot is placed with boiling water and a frog is thrown into it; the frog notes boiling water, jumps and comes out. Alternatively, there is a water pot at temperate temperature in which the frog itself is inserted, where it is to the liking, and it is slowly warming up until finally the frog dies boiled, but it has been adapting in the time that the water was being heated, so that it was not able to realize that it was being killed. Well, this is a parable that can serve to exemplify very well that fallacy of the false dilemma. The difference between cutting fast and cutting slower is substantial, but ultimately it ends up cutting. The path of the deficit, the deficit targets and the Brussels expenditure ceiling ultimately involve cutting and you know it, because that is the very definition of the expenditure rule. The definition of the expenditure rule itself suggests, indicates and urges that the weight of the public should ultimately be reduced. Moreover, it is even planned: 39% for the year 2021 and we will see if it does not go down even further. We are against this. We are against this model. We are not against a lesser evil, but we are against the model that leads to a Spain within ten, fifteen or twenty years in which the weight of the public is much smaller than it is right now. It's pretty easy to understand, in my opinion. Of course, we believe that we must reverse the cuts of the People's Party and that we must fight against the deficit with another policy, with a policy of economic stimulus, with a policy that we would not call revolutionary because it is Keynesian in nature; a policy that is very different from that proposed by the People's Party, but profoundly legitimate. For that reason, these amounts that are being raised here today are clearly insufficient. We have made modest estimates which are published and which are the subject of debate and discussion, but not by you. You went directly to talk to Brussels, closed an agreement and methodologically you did not talk to any other group in this House, which, in itself, is also a problem. I put it very simply. With this model, with this framework of the European Union, it is impossible to meet the commitments of a left-wing social programme. It is impossible, because it leads to a country where the weight of the public is much less. We will abstain because we do not agree, Mrs Montero. In fact, some of us have voted against all the spending ceilings since 2012; I have, and many of the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group have, too. I spoke before the 2015 spending ceiling, but because I was generous. We can talk about the 2013 or 2014 spending ceilings much higher than the Socialist Parliamentary Group voted against. Therefore, do not accuse us of lacking our word or our coherence. We know what we think about these issues. I'm done, Madam President. It is legitimate for you to scold us here for not supporting your proposal, which is not legitimate for you to do so in this way, because, in my opinion, our group, with this abstention, is pointing out a door out because this is not going to be the only debate. [[Applauds]] There will be many more, such as budget and other debates in which it will be necessary to see all of this in a deeply integral way; and integral means that we talk about the Law on Stability, the rule of spending, what are the preferences of all the groups that we support that Pedro Sánchez could be president and that today we do not vote with you. Perhaps it is not our fault, perhaps it is that the method and the vision that it was not only worth getting to the motion of censure, but to put into practice an alternative model to the neoliberal of the People's Party has failed. Let's talk. It's a long way to go. See abstention as a gesture that opens up an opportunity for us. They can scold us, which we do not understand or share, but there is a future scenario and, of course, we will not support this spending ceiling because we also vote against it on other occasions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u63	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u64	Mrs. Montero, I'm sorry you're confusing waste with public spending. Did I talk about taxes? Of course, as anyone has spoken here, because public spending is paid with taxes, and we all pay taxes. Or is it believed that, for example, the diesel tax that you want to impose would only be paid by the presidents of IBEX 35? Or is it believed, as some of your cabinet partners have said, that if banks are taxed they will not be passed on to bank clients, that we are all? What world are we in? The spending proposals that you bring, such as liberalising tolls, cost money and we think we should spend better, but not spend more and without control. Spending without control and getting more in debt means that in the future you will either be charging more taxes or, alternatively, you will have to make cuts, and that is the policy that you bring here with this spending ceiling. [[Applauds]] In 2007, with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero as president of the government, Spain spent less than now. The point is that we have to do things a lot better than the four figures you brought us here. In the first place, it would be good if you negotiated them before to have an idea, which is what you do when you want to take things out and you have a roof like the one you have, real as life itself, of eighty-four seats. The least we can do is try to square the figures and not say that spending is not going to be paid with taxes and confuse greater debt capacity with financing, because the Autonomous Communities and Social Security will have to pay in the future that greater deficit capacity that you are proposing. He may or may not like our policies, but in the last two years there have been no cuts and the expenditure that has decreased has been that of interest and unemployment because of job creation. The formula for Spain to continue in economic growth is no longer debt, more taxes and spending without control, but better spending. For now, the only thing they have brought are proposals for tax increases that, of course, we will all pay. There is not a single proposal to combat fraud, there is no proposal to control public expenditure, there is superfluous public expenditure, and that superfluous public expenditure is the one that then prevents public expenditure from reaching those who have to get there. In short, your proposal for more debt, more spending and more taxes is going to have a no-fly on our part. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u65	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u66	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, you have only responded to the PP, PSOE and Podemos groups and have none of the majority of groups in this House, including mine. I wanted to ask you what the rest of us are from the other groups, are we a tool or what we are? You act here as a minister with an absolute majority and I remind you that you only have the support of eighty-four Members, and at this stage we will hardly ever agree. I repeat the question you have not answered. Are you prepared to submit immediately a reform of the Budget Stability Act so that the spending path will not be blocked in the Senate by the absolute majority of the PP, yes or no? Do you agree to sit with my group and other groups to agree on a spending ceiling and a public deficit that will allow the various public administrations in this country to make expansive budgets to maintain the welfare state, yes or no? Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u67	Thank you very much. Basque Parliamentary Group? [[Pause]] Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u68	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, I am not going to blame you for not answering us because, in any case, that is part of the debate. I want to be positive and constructive; let us talk, let us agree, to see if we are able to present a new agreement because, imagine, without voting in favour of them, the People's Party already ails you that you have sold to the separatists and that you have everything agreed with us... That's not true, and you know it. In any case, Minister, we understand that it is possible, but if you only want to approve it in this House it will be equally sterile. We should consider amending section 15 of the Organic Budget Stability Act so that this House - as with the rest of the laws - can lift the Senate veto because if we do not, in the end, have the suspicion that it should not be so - we do not see enough momentum and interest for these new objectives to come to fruition. One might think what happens if they don't approve. Brussels will maintain the five tenths of the largest deficit. Who's gonna hold those five-tenths? It's going to be the General Administration of the State and you're going to be able to generate it extrabudgetarily, and understand what I mean by extrabudgetarily. We have a month, let's rectify, let's try to be positive and, without acrid, do some self-criticism. Something we'll all have done wrong to get here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you said that you are a convinced optimist. I am, too. I always believed in the possibility that these gentlemen would be in the opposition, I always believed that. [[pointing out the banks of the People's Parliamentary Group]] We've finally made it and we've come this far. I think we all share that the autonomous communities need - mine, of course, as May water - measures to be able to breathe. This is like the schoolchildren; we have not approved in the July call but we have September. Let us do our duty, let us think what we have done wrong so that this has not come out, let us learn from our mistakes today so that these gentlemen will continue to cry out next month. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with Mr. Garzón's boiled frog. I have to admit that I thought the frog was in the same pot where we are or were all the groups that supported the motion of censure, but it seems that it was not. [[Rumors]] What I do hope is that we are all in the same pot that led to a change of government and achieved the Government of equity. [[The Rumors Continue]] Secondly, he makes a statement that seems to me to be unfounded in academic terms...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u73	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u74	...and even pragmatic. He says that with this model, his model, because we are raising public spending - we have just arrived, Mr Garzón, give us time - in relation to GDP, you say that it is impossible to get to have a country on the left. I don't know if you've spoken to Portugal. It is possible to have leftist governments that have social sensitivities and that fulfil the paths of stability and the commitments of the club in which we are, which is the Brussels club. The PP, as always, fails, because it has always done so. I think it is good to remember that all taxes have gone up, although it is true that later on in the election season they have gone down for the most powerful. It has implemented cuts policies; it has renegotiated as I said before - deficit targets with Brussels with Rajoy and Montoro three times; it has spent what it did not have; the level of public debt is close to 100% in historical terms with the People's Party and with the support of Citizens. They've been mismanaged. I remind you how you left Social Security, with the broken box and a structural deficit level of 1%. In Spain, levels of inequality and poverty have increased at record levels. Where do they leave their claimed sense of state? In the garage of lies, as when they presumed the number of affiliates or presented deficits and revenues that they knew they were not going to meet. [[Applauds]] Mr Olano, I would ask you whether you know which government had a level of public debt that was a third - 33% - of which the People's Party has left; whether you know which government achieved a budgetary surplus two years in a row; whether you know with which government a record of employment was obtained in Spain - over twenty million occupied - and whether you know who left a healthy and solvent social security box, and not broken. [[Applauds]] I tell you: a government of the Socialist Party. I remember that we are talking about 6 billion costs for the Spanish if the stability path presented by this government is not approved, and about 25 billion for autonomous communities. Perhaps it is good that you know the impact of your measures if you do not support the path of stability: 338 million for Andalusia; about 80 for Aragon; 49 for Asturias; 65 for Balearics; 96 for Canary Islands; 29 for Cantabria; 124 for Castile and León; 87 for Castile-La Mancha and almost 500 for Catalonia. [[rumors]] I won't go on because I don't have time. We are talking about a path of stability that has been negotiated with Brussels realistic and prudent and an expansive non-financial expenditure that will grow above nominal GDP and restore a path of recovery of public services of the welfare state thinking about people, economic growth and job creation; quality employment. Do you want to oppose this, Members of Parliament? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u75	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u76	Thank you, President. Very briefly because I believe that the whole debate has already taken place and the second speeches have only reaffirmed the previous positions and have not provided any additional elements. By the way, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, has rightly said, the People's Party has raised taxes more than fifty times in this country. [[Applauds]] But do you know what the difference is? The difference is that you basically impacted them on the middle and working classes and we put forward a taxation so that you each contribute according to your capacity and that those who have the most, more contribute. [[Applauds]] I think it's a substantive and very important difference. Truly, I hear with amazement that the members of the People's Party go up to this rostrum to give classes of economic efficiency when they have not fulfilled a single year, they have not fulfilled. [[rumors]] It has fulfilled the Kingdom of Spain thanks to the municipalities and the autonomous communities. [[applause.-Rumores.-Mrs. Villalobos Talero utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u77	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u78	Don't get excited, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u79	Quiet. Mrs. Villalobos, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u80	Don't get excited, Your Honor, the data is objective. He has not fulfilled the General Administration of the State any year - Mr Montoro is here who could corroborate it -, they have fulfilled the rest of the administrations and thanks to the rest of the administrations he has fulfilled the Government of Spain and the Kingdom of Spain, Mrs Villalobos, despite the fact that you are making a mockery of me from the rostrum. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u81	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u82	Continue with that disrespect and speech, but I believe that a new moment has arrived in this House where that has no place, and I am not going to fall into that provocation. Mr De la Torre, you have once again said the same thing as in your first speech. I will repeat to you again, this government is not going to raise taxes either to the middle class or to the working class or to the self-employed or to the professionals or to small businesses, you say what you say, therefore do not hide. [[applause]] If this is very simple. Do citizens subscribe to the People's Party theory that austerity must be more papist than the pope? Do citizens agree that this country is on a more demanding path of stability than that proposed by Europe? That is what is being decided today. Can we have 6 billion more so that the path of stability is more transitable, more comfortable for the citizens, or do we have to drown the economic life of this country and the rights of the citizens to achieve it? [[Applauds]] That is what we are discussing; for the rest there will be another moment, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garzón, we will continue to speak, work and dialogue until exhaustion. I believe that we have spoken and spoken during these days, despite what you have said publicly, and I believe that there are positions to be found, although then every political formation makes its decision. There is one element that this government and this party want to make clear, and that is that we are committed to the stability and sustainability of public finances, so we have to strike a balance, we have to make citizens' rights compatible, first of all; and secondly, our commitments to European partners, because politics, Mr Garzón, is the art of what is possible; trying to bring to the heart of citizens who can do things that are not real, that cannot be done, is simply a fraud. [[Applauds]] We have to move that is possible. For reasons of time I have not been able to devote a part of my speech to the rest of the speakers, to the spokesman for the Republican Left and to the spokespersons of the Joint Parliamentary Group. I will simply tell you that I, who come from an autonomous community, find it hard to understand that those political representations that are basically from the environments of autonomous communities do not approve this path of stability, it costs me work, because in the autonomous communities we know that the 25 billion biggest deficit, which is what allows us Brussels and which came to vote today, is fundamental to make budgets for next year. [[applause]] It is essential to be able to continue to rebuild rights in health and education, and it is essential for the autonomous communities not to follow the yoke to which Mr Montoro has been subject during this period. [[Applauds]] That's why it's hard for me to understand. I'm done. We will comply with the Budget Stability Act with all the part of the procedure it entails, but this House must make it clear that if that path is not approved, it goes back to the previous path, there is no possibility of doing anything else. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u84	We will comply with the procedure by bringing Parliament in whenever the path is needed, but the result is that it returns to the previous path and, therefore, to steal 6 billion from this country - I insist - in order to make the path that we have before us more trasable, and that means improvement and recovery of rights. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to fight permanently - that is the commitment with the citizens - and before the vote takes place again I appeal to responsibility, again I appeal to sensitivity with the citizens so that you can give the yes to this path; a path that allows us to recover the daily well-being of the people who listen to us, of the people we represent, of all the citizens. Spain deserves it and believe me that citizens deserve it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u85	Thank you very much. In three minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us put to the vote the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the general government as a whole and for each of the subsectors for the period 2019-2021. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are votes cast by telematics. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 plus 6 telematics votes, 347; 88; 172 plus 1 telematics vote, 173; abstentions, 81 plus 5 telematics votes, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-27-CD180727.u86	Consequently, the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and for each of their subsectors for the period 2019-2021 are rejected. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was two and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
