ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 23 concerning the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u2	The debate on motions arising from urgent appeals under items 27 and 28 of the Thursday session will also be exchanged. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted. On the other hand, I should like to inform you that there will be no votes to coincide with the plenary session of the Senate today, so they will take place at the sitting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u3	We are now beginning, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on taking into account the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Law 10/2014, of 26 June, on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions, and the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015, of 23 October. Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I come to bring the proposed law of the People's Group amending Law 10/2014 of 26 June, on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions and the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act approved by Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015 of 23 October. It is a proposal that favours complaints and investigation of infringements, adapts to the new Organic Law on Data Protection and transposes two European directives. Financial regulation has two fundamental axes, which converge on an interest...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u5	Wait a minute, Your Honor. I ask the services of the House to check the megaphony, because it is not being heard. One second, Mr. Paniagua. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u6	As I said to you, financial regulation has two fundamental axes, which converge on a single interest, which is the defence of citizens' interests. On the one hand, the direct protection of consumers is pursued by establishing rules of conduct for financial institutions and granting them rights which are irrevocable and enforceable against them. On the other hand, the maintenance of the stability of the financial system, which indirectly results in the protection of citizens' interests, thereby avoiding or at least reducing the costs that financial crises can entail and enabling economic growth. We have seen it at the end of this crisis, in the first epoch with weak financial institutions deepened the economic crisis; as soon as measures were taken to restructure the sector, the economy began to recover and grow continuously and we already know the consequences in our country of both situations. Well, in this proposal of law we focus on both aspects. In particular, as regards direct protection for the financial consumer. On the one hand, it enables an appropriate channel for any person who has knowledge or substantial suspicion of a breach of the prudential supervision obligations of credit institutions provided for in that law and its development regulations to have the possibility and the right to communicate it to the Banco de España with due guarantees, the one also known as whistleblowing. Secondly, a specific regime is established to ensure that any person who is aware of the commission of possible actual infringements or infringements provided for in European Union Regulation No 596/2014 of 16 April 2014 on market abuse or in Law No 35/2003 of 4 November 2003 on Collective Investment Institutions has the possibility and the right to communicate it to the CNMV in the form and with due guarantees. On the other hand, measures to maintain the stability of the financial system. First, it makes adjustments to the supervision of credit institutions and investment services undertakings to ensure the best transposition of Directive 2013/36/EU. And how does he do it? In two ways. Firstly, it is clear that all the centres of activity established in Spanish territory by European credit institutions whose central administration is located in another Member State will be regarded as a single branch. Secondly, it ensures the appropriate exchange of information between the Bank of Spain and other competent authorities of the European Union in the case of Spanish entities controlled by a parent institution of the European Union. Finally, the text is also adapted to the expected amendment of the Organic Data Protection Act, which strengthens the supervisory powers of the CNMV. In particular, to give access to telephone and data-trafficking records held by a telecommunications operator where there are substantial suspicions of infringement and where such records may be relevant for an investigation of breaches of Law 35/2003 of 4 November, as well as existing records of telephone conversations or electronic communications or other data-trafficking records held by the collective investment institution, the collective investment company, the investment company, the depositary or any other entities regulated by Law 35/2003 of 4 November. We have seen both aspects that improve. Now I want to introduce you to the rules that are being amended. First, Act 10/2014 of 26 June 2014 on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions. Secondly, the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015 of 23 October. As regards Law 10/2014, Chapter V is added to Title IV, which regulates the reporting of infringements and amends Article 12(1) and a third paragraph is added to Article 61, both to ensure better transposition of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the business of credit institutions and prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC. As regards the consolidated text of the Securities Market Act, it first amends Article 234(1) and (2) on the basis of possible amendments to the Organic Data Protection Act and partly also Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009. Two paragraphs are added to Article 244 for the better adaptation of the above mentioned Directive and a new Chapter IVa is added to Title VIII on infringements, adapting Commission Implementing Directive 2015/2392 of 17 December 2015. All these measures are also part of the commitments of the People's Party and are included in our electoral programme: transparency and convenience for users of financial products; maintaining financial regulation adapted to the best international standards; moving forward in improving banking transparency and reforming the legal framework of financing instruments and financial products to adapt it to regulatory developments at the European level, always giving priority to the client in regulatory changes, as well as in the 150 commitments signed by the People's Party and Citizens for the investiture of the President of the Government. First, strengthen the complaints and protection services of the three financial supervisors. Secondly, strengthening the rights of consumers and users and making progress in improving bank transparency. We must be aware of the accumulated delay in the transposition process for the year that the Government took office and that it did not allow for progress in this work, but we must also be aware of the large number of directives that are being adopted in the financial field. In this House we have already passed eight royal decree-laws with broad agreement and four bills are in the process. In addition, the People's Parliamentary Group has submitted two PNLs, one to establish a new regulation that strengthens the protection of users of financial services of entities not supervised by the Banco de España, which was adopted on 14 November, and the other to urge the Government to accelerate the process for the creation of an independent administrative authority for consumer protection and financial investor, which was presented last March and is pending processing, as well as the huge legislative battery presented by the People's Party Government in the 10th Legislature in order to achieve the same objectives. The commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group is clear. This proposal accompanies and contributes positively to the interest that we believe must be shared by all parliamentary groups in completing the transposition into our legal system of the different European directives. We want to contribute to that effort so that we are able to adopt all this important legislation and for that I appeal and wish to count on your cooperation. Rather, we want to continue to count, as hitherto, on the collaboration of the groups to continue on this same path. For the discussions that I have had with the spokesmen of different groups, I would like to thank from here the disposition of the Citizens' Group, the Basque Nationalist Party and the members of the Joint Group of the PDECAT, the Union of the Navarro People, the Asturias Forum and the Canary Coalition mainly, but also of the other groups that have transmitted their abstention to me and that will enable this proposal to be put forward. Finally, I would like to say to you that we will ask for urgent procedure, since it is not too broad a text, in order to try to transpose the outstanding directives as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u7	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the first place by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. The initiative just explained and defended by Mr Paniagua Núñez promotes wider consumer protection in relation to financial institutions. To this end, it seeks to introduce a series of measures that adapt and strengthen the mechanisms already in place in Spain, as well as aligning our legislation and regulations with the directives and mandates of the European Union. One of these protection mechanisms refers to amparo for whistleblowers who disclose or disclose practices against the public interest within the organization or enterprise for which they work or with which they have maintained an employment relationship. It is a matter of great complexity, on which the European Union itself has already taken letters following the Luxleaks case, on which in 2014 tax engineering and multinational profiteering practices were known on a large scale thanks to the complaints of two employees of an audit firm based in Luxembourg, who were finally convicted by the courts. In addition to responding to the courts in accordance with existing laws, an added problem arises from the risk of perpetual stigma on complainants. Hence the need to apply strict confidentiality mechanisms, in order to prevent reprisals, dismissals, social destabilization or a vacuum in their career. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to the Forum that a law is being promoted in Spain that provides the greatest possible protection for whistleblowers of practices contrary to the public interest. A little over a year ago I voted in favour of the initiative put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which emphasized the fight against corruption in the field of administrations, and today I will vote in favour of the initiative put forward by the People's Group, which affects the fight against corruption in the private sphere, with effects and damage on the public interest. It is essential that Spain, as other countries of the European Union have already done, and also in accordance with the United Nations Convention against Corruption, is equipped with more tools to combat those defrauders and offenders who, masked in powerful tax engineering structures, evade their obligations, mask their profits, harm citizens and, in addition, with their borderless advantage, cause lethal damage to our business fabric, uniquely to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is where the largest volume of jobs is generated and which cannot compete on an equal footing with the powerful promoters and beneficiaries of the tejemanes. Therefore, my vote will be in favour of having a law to regulate communication and infringements and the protection of the informant, as well as to provide our supervisory bodies with greater and better inspection powers. Our vote will also be in favour of incorporating into our legal system Community directives which seek to tackle one of the major concerns of Europeans: tax evasion, accentuated by the pace of technology and sheltered in the remains of a public authority that always goes behind digital advances and takes advantage of the shortcomings of our legislation and the slow pace of reforming laws. We need to establish more mechanisms to protect public interests. It should be remembered that the extensive public consultation on the protection of whistleblowers, as they are known in the international slang, held last year at the request of the European Commission, has been instrumental in promoting new legislation in favour of whistleblowers. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u9	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u10	Thank you very much, President. I rise to this rostrum one more week and I must remind you that, unfortunately, political prisoners continue to exist. The President of Parliament, the Vice-President of the Government, along with several advisers and Jordi Sanchez and Jordi Cuixart continue to be held in pre-trial detention. [[Applauds]] Much more painful is the treatment that has been given to other partners in different countries and developed democracies such as Germany, Belgium, Scotland or Switzerland. In any case, yesterday Mr Paniagua advanced what our position was to be with regard to his proposal for a law. We will support the process of amending these two laws, the Law on the Management, Supervision and Solvency of Credit Institutions and the Securities Market Act. Still, I'm telling you, we're going to try to improve it in the process. Your group is predisposed and, therefore, it will be easy for us to understand each other. However, you will allow me to tell you, Mr Paniagua, that everyone must justify their positions. We are surprised that in order to finish adapting and transposing some directives into the Spanish legal system, parliamentary groups are being used, and it is not the Government that urges this transposition. What does not surprise us is the justification used by the People's Parliamentary Group, saying that the Government was an interim year. Mr Paniagua, some of these directives are from 2013. Five years ago, they were approved. It has been four years for the Government to transpose them. One has been in office, but the other four have not. We have a certain delay and, if we have to use the parliamentary groups to try to recover this delay, we note. Perhaps we too have some legislative initiative to transpose some of the directives. In any case, I tell you that we are going to vote in favour and put forward some amendments in order to improve it. Before I finish, ladies and gentlemen, I will say - I see some Members and some Catalan Members and they know it perfectly well, but in case there is any defect in the room or someone listening to us - that many things are happening in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u11	Your Honor, I would ask you to go to the point, because the Presidency has already allowed part of your speech to be out of the question. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u12	Thank you, President. He had appointed Catalonia. I hadn't said if it was about the Securities Market Act in Catalonia. In any case, many things are happening in Catalonia, but I assure you that if one thing is not happening, there is terrorism. There is no terrorism in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u14	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I say that from the Basque Group we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration to strengthen the Law on the Management, Supervision and Solvency of Financial Institutions, among others. The prudential regulation of credit institutions must continue to play a key role in ensuring that credit institutions operate with sufficient own resources to be able to take on the risks arising from their financial activity, thus contributing to the stability of the financial system, especially if we take into account the experience we have experienced in this sector in recent years and the need to continue to take those measures which therefore contribute to their strengthening and transparency in order to avoid those problems of the recent past. We have already agreed with the draft law transposing Directive 2013/36 on access to the business of credit institutions and prudential supervision of financial institutions, because the crisis of a credit institution extends its effects beyond its scope and can also affect the financial system itself and by extension produce negative impacts on the economy in general, as we have seen throughout the economic crisis that we have experienced, so that, in our view, this justifies once again on a regular basis, if, more precisely, certain aspects which have remained in the air and which relate basically to the regulation of the communication of possible infringements, enabling channels for their communication and confidentiality, as well as the strengthening of the supervisory power of the CNMC, adapting the text to the Organic Data Protection Act; regulated aspects, inter alia, in recital 40 of the directive, which establishes the desirability of the competent authorities having necessary powers of investigation and establishing effective mechanisms to facilitate the notification of any actual or potential infringements. Despite our vote in favour, we do believe that we should make a small criticism of the government, as regulation always seems to be behind reality. We have already seen it with the adoption of the law and again today, as we are dealing with issues that should have been incorporated into that law that moved the requirements of Basel III, thus once again taking away the lessons that should have been learned as a result of the economic and financial crisis, an aspect that has already emerged from the Financial Crisis Commission in this Congress of Deputies. They should also be reminded that it was the European Commission itself that asked Spain to fully implement Directive 36/2013, as it had been partially done, with some provisions missing in the national legal system. These provisions, as I have already said, relate mainly to the powers of the competent authorities, administrative sanctions, measures for the enforcement of entities responsible for a serious offence in the fight against money laundering and the complaint and infringement mechanism. If these rules are not transposed, the Commission could take the decision to refer Spain to the European Court of Justice. Although there is some justification, as Mr Paniagua has said, for having been in office by the Government, the truth is that this is not enough. Despite the criticism made and given that we believe that the missing aspects must be transposed, whose purpose is only to strengthen the prudential supervision of the entities as well as the protection of the clients and transparency, we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u15	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm speaking from the seat. First of all, I would like to highlight my group's discomfort with the apparent contradiction to which we are being drawn, which means that we are talking here about the transposition of European legislation while in Catalonia there are arrests of innocent and peaceful people, arrests that would not occur in any civilized and democratic European country. With regard to the point we are discussing, apart from the well-known and already well-argued arguments, we want to express a concrete inconsistency between the directive - in Article 12(1) - and the transposition that Mr Paniagua will be defending. Under the appearance of statistical simplification, we understand that a centralizing will is hidden, which we will naturally oppose by amending. In that regard, we shall be tabling an amendment and, in line with all that said, we shall abstain from taking it into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u17	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law brought to us by the Group of the European People's Party has a correct objective of improving the defence of citizens in our financial system, mainly through two amendments. [[The Lord]] Firstly, Law 10/2014 on the management, supervision and solvency of credit institutions, correctly transposing, now, Directive 2013/36/EU, with an adequate exchange of information to supervisors and enabling a complaint channel to the Banco de España. Secondly, the amendment of the Securities Market Act by strengthening these supervisory powers of the National Securities Market Commission and establishing a specific regime for reporting possible infringements and abuses to this Commission. But, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a law is a new demonstration that your Government is doing things late and wrong, without conviction, without ambition. We have commented on this earlier; Directive 2013/36/EU five years ago should have been transposed on 31 December 2013; and I am not excused that your Government was in office, Mr Paniagua. Moreover, a few months ago the European Commission warned us that it could sue us to the Court of Justice and, moreover, with the aggravating, with the prejudice, of the initiation of a sanctioning procedure because it has not yet been fully transposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that the People's Group's initiative comes late and wrong, with lack of content, because, although the objective is correct, which we share of course from Citizens, it does not comply with point 15 of the investment pact: to create an independent consumer protection authority and financial investor from the National Securities Market Commission, which unifies and strengthens the complaints services to regain confidence, avoid fraud, avoid such abuses of the so-called small letter in contracts, or the supervision of audits. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in their group, it is difficult for them to comply with the agreements. Well, the agreements, the commitments and, of course, the commissions of inquiry; let's go, all about consumer rights, regeneration, the fight against corruption; let's go, political ethics. And it's that they literally drag their feet. And even if they don't like their lentils. And to show a button, the Cifuentes case. [[Applauds]] Mr Paniagua, you yourself have said that the Group of the European People's Party has recorded in plenary a non-legislative motion calling on the Government to speed up the process for the creation of this independent consumer protection authority and financial investor and is signed by your spokesman, Mr Hernando. Moreover, his former Minister of Economy, Luis De Guindos, was ratified and committed to strengthening and depoliticizing these regulatory bodies. That is to say, they are encouraged, they urge acceleration, they commit themselves, and then, when they bring the proposal of law here, they do not materialize legislatively and fall from the text. Come on, they're in a situation of continuous decay, or rather of free fall, as some say. I remind you that the 150 investment commitments you have signed are to fulfil them. So what is this new patch, this umpteenth partial reform, this new initiative without ambition and with no global vision? The data are overwhelming, the Banco de España, the National Securities Market Commission, the General Directorate of Insurance and Pension Funds; they, in 2016, tell us that more than 25,800 claims from financial consumers were to be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen, this is directly in the pocket of the Spaniards. In 2014, the Ombudsman himself warned. He noted that the current system of customer protection is not sufficiently guaranteeing, and recommended, in addition, to arbitrate an out-of-court complaint system. By the way, while we are pleased to see the need for protection for whistleblowers in this proposal for a law, even if it is then possible to pursue the messenger or journalist, they should not be left alone in the financial sphere. Our party, Citizens, has already brought this issue to Congress with our proposal for a law to fight corruption and protect the complainant, which is still being processed. It has been eight months and we are waiting for the presentation to be made. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of doubts about whether they really care about the complainant's protection, whether they really care about regeneration and whether they really care about the fight against corruption. I'm done, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of the consideration and, in the process of partial amendments, we will try to improve this text by means of that necessary independent authority to which it referred, by means of a binding out-of-court system of resolution between the parties which discharges work to the saturated courts and by public monitoring of unfavourable reports. Ladies and gentlemen, do not drag your feet in the face of consumer rights, regeneration or corruption, because you know that it erodes citizens' confidence in institutions and weakens democracy and our economy. Do your job, ladies and gentlemen, or step aside, please. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is presenting a proposal for a law to essentially facilitate two things: one to link channels of communication so that citizens will bring to the attention of the institutions those suspicions of non-compliance with prudential supervision obligations, either to the Bank of Spain or to the National Securities Market Commission; and the other to exchange information between the Bank of Spain and other supervisory institutions, in the case of activities carried out by European credit institutions operating in our territory but whose central administration is outside Spain, as well as to facilitate the possibility for the National Securities Market Commission to collect information from telecommunications operators in terms of e-mails and calls when it is suspected that there has been an infringement. So far, in principle, everything seems to be fine. It is difficult to deny the need to articulate communication mechanisms between citizens and supervisory institutions, especially in a country where the fraud by the main banking and financial institutions has been systematic and widespread in recent years, with counted and honourable exceptions. If it is also taken into account that the initiative partially transposes two directives, 2009/65 and 2013/36, there is little to be argued against. The problem comes when we lower the initiative to concrete things and to the specific country in which we live, Spain, and when we see the relationship that has existed between our supervisory institutions and the practices carried out by the supervised companies, essentially collective investment bodies, credit institutions and investment firms, and the relationships that have existed between them throughout this process of financial fraud that led to the crisis in which we find ourselves. What do I mean? I think it's pretty obvious, but I'll try to explain myself more carefully. First, in chapter 5, which is added to Law 10/2004 through the proposed law of the People's Party, a procedure is established for reporting violations that does not guarantee the protection of whistleblowers, that is, it is far from that doctrine of whistleblowers which is discussed in the prologue and which requires, inter alia, the condition of anonymity. When the whole international comparative doctrine speaks of the need to favour anonymity in the complaint, forcing the receiving authority to value the consistency of the notice without prejudice to whether or not the complainant has been identified, this is only about confidentiality. In other words, the fact that the complainant's identity is faithfully claimed deprives the mechanism of any kind of utility, because anyone will suspect the possibility of filtering his name and personal data. I will say this synthetically: confidentiality does not imply any increase in compensation, and in such mechanisms it is essential to preserve the compensation of complainants. In fact, this is what should in principle be resolved by Article 121, which is incorporated in the new text, but which is pure appearance from the moment when the commitment of confidentiality falls on an institution as questioned in this last crisis as the Banco de España itself. The Banco de España, as shown in the text, will inform the complainant about possible ways of protecting against potential harm arising from the communication. That is, it leaves in question the confidentiality of the complaint made to it and puts the patch before the wound appears. These articles 121 and 122 remain in a supposed declaration of intent that does not guarantee protection. On the other hand, it is in the process of creating an independent authority that does offer a real complaint and anonymity to the complainants, and I do not think that this appears to be conveniently married to the rest of the bill. There is a matter of substance to which I mentioned a moment ago, the question of the role of the Banco de España and the risk it poses to any person to make a complaint to it, alluding to the preservation of the confidentiality that the institution makes. I'll say it another way. Do you believe that an institution that maintains an open conflict in parliamentary headquarters even, in the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Rescue, between the most qualified staff of the Bank of Spain, who are the inspectors, and the management of the bank, is reliable in order to transfer any kind of information to it? Is an institution that hears complaints from its own staff reliable in order to make a complaint and wait for the confidentiality of the complaint? I'll give you a case that came out in the press today. Do you think that an institution that for a year has kept in the drawer a report on the possibility of money laundering in the case of the sale of the Foster Tower, in Madrid, by Bankia, that was denounced by the inspectors, that they were also forced to inform the institution, of Bankia, of the facts they were investigating before before the prosecution and before the authority that protects us from money laundering, is an institution that deserves that trust that we grant it? There's something else I don't know if it's clumsy or what you guys are up to. They bring this initiative to plenary the week after the prosecutor's office of this country asked for an unconditional arrest warrant against Hervé Falciani, knowing how the prosecutor's office knew that the extradition requested by the Swiss authorities, alleging violation of Swiss banking secrecy - Oh!-, was already rejected by the National Court five years ago. [[applause]] We are allowed to bring to the plenary an initiative to encourage citizen collaboration the same week that puts at risk one of the people who has done most to uncover the plots of banking corruption throughout Europe. Your Honor, in order for these channels to be effective Spain should not appear - I am finishing, President - among the seven countries of the European Union that least defend those who denounce the alleged corrupt, evaders and tax criminals, as reported by the NGO Blueprint for Free Speech. Spain must protect the legal, professional - term, president - economic, social and personal protection of tax-crime confidants and all those who actively cooperate in the fight against corruption, tax fraud and money laundering. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country where there are no guarantees for those who denounce and a lot of impunity for those who commit crime. As long as that keeps happening, they'll have us in front of them. For the time being, we will be abstaining until the amendments are sensitive to this kind of problem that we have brought to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Group of the European People's Party is bringing us today to debate a proposal for a law to incorporate into the Spanish legal system European legislation, in particular two directives, in addition to the relevant legislative amendments. I am not going to expand on the content contained in the proposal for a law - the spokesman of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Paniagua, has already detailed it - which, on the other hand, we can share largely - we believe is favourable and that its application to the legal order of our country is necessary - but I do want to focus on naming the aspects that we consider most important. We find positive the incorporation into our order of whistleblowing, a channel of communication for possible infringements that largely guarantees the protection of the informant and also, in theory, guarantees the quality of the information received. We also find positive the new powers given to the sector's supervisors. As we have seen after the financial crisis - Mr Paniagua too, because he is a spokesperson in the Committee on the Investigation of the Financial Crisis - it is necessary to increase the powers of these regulatory bodies, and it is also necessary to provide them with more resources. These measures are in line with the Royal Decree-Law 21/2017, which we discussed on 6 February and which also transposes into the Spanish legal system a fundamental aspect, which is the new regulation of the trading centres, as well as a sanctioning regime similar to that of the European Union. As I said, my group shares the content of these reforms at European level, because they mean greater integration into the European Union and, above all, greater protection and transparency for customers and end-users in the financial sector. The Socialist Group is ready to discuss these issues in the parliamentary process of this initiative to improve and enrich the text presented. But, I have already said, while we share the background and we can share the content, we cannot under any circumstances share the forms of the People's Party to bring us this initiative here today. In the time I have been in this House, there is an increasing frequency of parliamentary contortionism on the part of the People's Parliamentary Group, and this is another example. [[The lady]] They put forward in a proposal for a law the transposition of several European directives, acting as a subcontract of Mr Rajoy's government, which governs and operates only by inertia. This is yet another sign of the weakness of Mr Rajoy's Government, a government that is not taking the initiative, which is not undertaking the legislative reforms that our country needs. This lack of reform is more evident in economic matters. There is a clear lack of legislative impetus. In economic matters, the only reforms that are being implemented are transposition after transposition of European legislation; we do, but we do it late and we do it by dragging our feet. We are not orienting the economy to face inclusive and sustainable growth and we continue to base everything on the inertia of tail winds, which seem to change. As far as capital markets are concerned, what can I say? This is one more patch on the way, and there are no excuses for having been in office for a year, because some of the directives we are transposing have been waiting three, four or five years for transposition. In the area of the securities market, in addition to this initiative, two more are being dealt with, one which I have already commented on and one which I will comment on. What I have commented on is the draft urgent measures for the adaptation to our country's securities market regulations, which comes from the Royal Decree-Law 21/2017, and the other is the draft law amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Act and the Non-Financial Information Accounts Audit Act. The previous one is still in the process of amendments, but it has already been closed, and your group, the People's Parliamentary Group, has tabled an amendment whose content has nothing to do with that draft. This amendment which they have tabled to this draft is also intended to transpose a European directive; a legislative technique which disregards the debate in the General Courts and the procedure itself for adapting Europe to our legislation. Therefore, we can say without making a mistake that, in the area we are dealing with today, the regulation of the market for securities or investment companies and the protection of users, is being legislated on the basis of patches, patch after patch, governing on the basis of improvisation, we have already said this on more than one occasion in this House. All this is being done while for months we are being announced the presentation of a new Securities Market Act, a law that has never just been implemented or brought to this House. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I am now concluding - we share the substance of this bill, but we cannot, as I said, share the forms of the People's Group. This way of governing by improvising the government can never be shared by the Socialist Group. If you, if the government had done the job, Mr De Guindos would have brought here the amendment of the Securities Market Act or the new Securities Market Act, as he said, and everything we are debating and have discussed in recent weeks, relating to the securities market, it would already be incorporated and we would not have to go patch after patch as we are doing today. From my group all we can say is that they take the initiative for once and that, even if it is late, they transpose what has to be transposed in time and, above all, they bring a balanced text that includes everything and bring the Securities Market Act, which is what we are all waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u23	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, INTEGRATED FOR EQUAL TREATY AND NON-DISCRIMINATION. [[File number 122/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u24	It is appropriate to discuss below the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is comprehensive for equal treatment and non-discrimination. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez has the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating this afternoon a proposal for a law that seeks to guarantee the dignity of all members of Spanish society. European directives on equal treatment were made in 2003 from a very low profile. If we add to this the little impetus given in these years to the fight against discrimination, we can say that we run the risk of being left out of the leading group of advanced countries in the field of civil rights. Europe is already blaming us for the fact that the Council for the Elimination of Racial or Ethnic Discrimination, created by the Socialists in 2009, has been virtually out of activity or that as of today, in 2018, and since 2014 we are without a strategy for the integration of foreigners in Spain. The basis of this normative text that we bring today for consideration comes - and I would like to emphasize it - for the third time to this House. The first one was not admitted to the emergency procedure, when the socialists were still in the government and a few months before the advance election in 2011. It was also inadmissible in 2012, but we are not going to give up, because this law is part of our vision and commitment to comprehensively legislate for equality. We are talking about a law that contains the basic guarantees and seeks to be the common minimum standard on anti-discrimination law. This House should not again frustrate the expectations of organisations committed to equality and anti-discrimination. Those who are in the guest gallery today are giving us a lesson every day in commitment to human rights and are demanding that we implement this law that is of all and that is for all and for all. Discrimination, ladies and gentlemen, humiliates people, nullifies and tramples upon their rights, subjugates those who suffer it and degrades societies that tolerate it. [[Applauds]] Today we have the opportunity to provide this country with a very valuable instrument to prevent discrimination, sanction it when appropriate and redress the damage caused. We bring this law because Spain has not yet committed itself in a determined manner to a normative corpus of comprehensive protection against discrimination. It is no longer a question of us being able to identify and recognize the problem; we are at the moment of being active in the real and effective protection of victims. We are faced with a law that is necessary to ensure coexistence, cohesion and also the enjoyment of the rights that we have already recognized in the laws, because this law does not come to recognize new rights, but comes to ensure that we can exercise those that we have already recognized. We are dealing with a text that seeks effectiveness and, therefore, not only sets out procedures for prevention, but also proposes, in a way - I would like to emphasize - proportionate and reasonable, the cataloguing of infringements and their corresponding sanctions. I know there has been and there is much debate about this. That is why it seems to me very important that we take some thought together. Ladies and gentlemen, the regime of infringements and sanctions is within the limits set in accordance with Article 25 of the Constitution. It is also a requirement for the transposition of anti-discrimination directives, which in the case of Spain at present have only been transferred to the field of work and disability. But the extension of sanctions to other discriminations is essential, because it is not only necessary to criminalize unlawful conduct; the corresponding sanctions must be regulated in order to respect and, above all, to ensure respect for the guarantees of citizenship in a social and democratic State governed by law. In fact, we already have laws that punish discrimination, for example, Law 49/2007 on universal accessibility of persons with disabilities, which is a specific law on sanctions. Now is the time to extend it to discrimination, but also to harassment by ethnic or social origin, sex, race, colour, language, religion or belief, opinion, belonging to a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation. And I would like to point out here that this law, ladies and gentlemen, introduces the amendment of three articles of the Criminal Code which did not include discriminatory issues relating to sexual identity as grounds for discrimination in the workplace. Although sanctions are important, the true vocation of this law is that it is an instrument for changing attitudes and, therefore, we consider that the main thing is that it has a pedagogical character. Thus, what we give priority to is preventive policies and, once discrimination has occurred, mediation and conciliation over and above the punitive nature. From this perspective, sanctions become an element whose existence strengthens the mediation and conciliation functions that the law places in the figure of the authority for equal treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of this figure will prevent the proliferation of bodies and give an overall view on anti-discrimination, without prejudice to the fact that there are specific indicators for each group. I would like to tell the organizations that are accompanying us this afternoon that this law also recognizes them, and it does so because it recognizes collective legitimacy for entities and organizations involved in the defence and protection of human rights. Under this law, companies will not be able to use discriminatory criteria, such as excluding those over the age of 45 or 50 or those who suffer or suffer from illness. This law may punish discriminatory advertising and prevent discrimination in public establishments. Health centres will be prevented from discriminating against patients because they are from a different autonomous community or because they are foreigners. In education, the non-admission of boys and girls to schools will be halted according to their characteristics, and this is vital, for example, to eliminate anti-Gyptanism or the exclusion of those who have special educational needs or the children of immigrants. This law is a key instrument against racist or homophobic school harassment, it is a law that defends co-education. In short, this is a law that, together with the Equality Act, the future LGTBI laws, the law on transsexuality and the law against hate crimes, will form the normative package to combat discrimination in this country. [[Applauds]] I end by paraphrasing a teaching manual of the Movement against Intolerance; I recommend to all your ladies and gentlemen that, if they have an opportunity, they take it this weekend as a reading. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is a weapon against the allies of intolerance. By voting in favour of this law, what we do is to provide the State with instruments against moral autonomy, non-responsibility and the absence of commitment, against indifference, against fear, against impunity and the forgetfulness of the victims. That is the vote we are asking for. We have the opportunity to provide the State with a useful, very useful tool to combat discrimination and promote equal treatment. We hope that each and every one of your ladies and gentlemen will today commit to this goal which is vital for democracy and coexistence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. The adoption of this proposal for a law advocated by the Socialist Group spokesman, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez, is in addition to the various initiatives that have been promoted in this XII Legislature on equality and non-discrimination. If the accounts do not fail me, eight legislative proposals have already been put forward by different parliamentary groups that affect the legislative development of the principle of equality enshrined in article 14 of our Constitution, which, given its relational and non-self-governing nature, cannot be the subject of general regulation or regulatory development. Among other things, this initiative promotes an update of the fight for the elimination of inequalities, as well as the transposition of European directives, and I will therefore vote in favour of it. We also believe that it opens up a way to continue the ongoing challenge of building a society where there are no discriminatory or exclusionary loopholes, with democratic institutions of the twenty-first century that provide answers to the challenges of eliminating inequalities and finally to have new effective and effective legal instruments that complement the different sectoral regulations that we already have in force, several of them with an organic law rank. For the Forum, the commitment to equality is fundamental and unnegotiated and with greater emphasis on combating gender-based violence, which is the most extreme manifestation of inequality, and hence the opportunity to move forward in legislation and further strengthen preventive mechanisms against discrimination, as well as the promotion of measures to protect victims of inequality, a very special way to persevere in the fight against all forms of violence against women. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u27	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u28	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the PSOE for this proposal, which will undoubtedly serve to correct some of the excesses of the proposed law on non-discrimination and equal treatment of LGBTI that we are dealing with in this House. I have already said this in previous debates, we are against inequality and against discrimination, so we reaffirm, as stated in the explanatory statement, the validity of articles 9, 10 and 14 of the Constitution and also defend its executive character. We support those measures that serve to prevent and eradicate acts of discrimination on the one hand and also to protect and redress the damage caused to the victims. What is different is that we believe that this regulation or that we are already dealing with Podemos is strictly necessary today; we have certain doubts. In any case, welcome is whether it is indeed to correct those excesses. It is true that 287 amendments have already been tabled in the course of the Podemos proposal - I think you have tabled 100 - and I believe that this is basically the objective. Finally, we do not know how we will be able to deal in parallel with two successive almost simultaneous proposals, the contents of which sometimes overlap, contradict and subsume, but I suppose that the effective work of the lawyers will be able to solve this small systematic problem. I'm on my way. We maintain in this process some of the principles that inspired the criticism that we made to the proposal of Podemos and, therefore, we will denounce that under the defence of the principle of non-discrimination situations of inequality are consecrated if they occur, we will defend the neutrality of the Administration with regard to the ideologies that promote some lobbies, we will defend freedom of expression and the presumption of innocence, we will defend a scrupulous respect for the division of the competences of each Administration and we will maintain, as we have done in the process of the proposal of Podemos, to what extent it is necessary to create a State agency or a specific authority with the figure of the Ombudsman, who could perfectly do the work that is required to do that authority. In any case, I thank you for the courtesy of Parliament for having spoken on this subject, for having wanted to know the meaning of our vote and for having explained the reasons, yours and the others, for voting in favour of this case, as we will do in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u29	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u30	Thank you, President. We are certainly in the legislature of equality. Fortunately, after so many years, we are already debating fundamental issues, in this case on non-discrimination. Welcome is any initiative for equal treatment and non-discrimination, of course. In the sacrosanct Constitution, which here is so proud and so much to be used as a flag, article 14 says that Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. But this is not just to put it in the Constitution, but it must be carried out. However, it seems that this Government does not have time because it makes us much doubt that it believes in human rights. This Parliament has mandated the Government to make a comprehensive law on the prevention of hate crimes and the protection of victims, which it has not yet done. The government party abstained from integrating into school curricula the prevention of hate crimes and human rights education, has tried to paralyse the LGTBI Act, to stifle it and extend its processing over time, and we see this every day because we have absolutely clear that they do not have time for human rights because they are not believed. I would like to say to the Socialist Party that we are going to vote in favour of its initiative, of course, and to the Government that they accept that this society is moving forward, that they accept that the Constitution has more articles than 155 and that they accept that international treaties serve more than just to take a picture. Let this House legislate for human rights, legislate to guarantee the rights of all people and ensure and make it clear from here that it will accept the mandate given to it from this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u31	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we will vote in favour of the admission to the process of this law that defends equality of treatment and non-discrimination, because this implies not to pursue or penalize on grounds of sex, race or origin and also not to pursue or penalize anyone else for their political ideas, and today, in 2018, the Spanish State pursues and penalizes differently according to whether or not it is independent. As an example, the silence of the State's machinery against hyperventilated people who urge to take hostages in the Balearic Islands or to dynamite Bavarian breweries. On the other hand, arrests and charges of terrorism and rebellion against members of the CoR at the request of the court of law and order, i.e. the National Court, by road courts, when such actions had never been taken in other similar industrial or sectoral claims where incidents had occurred. Ergo, the State pursues the letter and as it pleases, discriminating against groups in this case also for their political ideas. It smiles that the UN denounces that Spain does not respect fundamental rights and urges it, for example, not to press charges of rebellion, since it says that this poses serious risks of limiting the fundamental right to freedom of expression and adds that it trusts that Spain will find the way to dialogue to resolve the Catalan conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, I must note from this rostrum that all of Europe today is aware of the violation of fundamental rights in Spain, as well as the existence of repression and political prisoners. In addition, they have found that the prosecution for the offence of rebellion has not exceeded the quality control of four European judicial authorities. The success of President Puigdemont's strategy is therefore noted. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is no other solution to the Catalan question than dialogue. Stop discriminating. Stop violating fundamental rights. We reiterate this to you, the UN says it to you and Europe reminds you of it. Open the dialogue; only then can we speak without cynicism from this forum of equal treatment, non-discrimination and respect for fundamental rights. We will vote on this bill. This State is in favour of a law that does not discriminate and treats all persons equally and does not discriminate on political grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u33	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presented this bill in February 2007, although it has kept it hidden or kept it in the refrigerator with the intention of making this text the common minimum standard containing the fundamental definitions of Spanish anti-discrimination law by establishing its basic guarantees for the real and effective protection of victims, materializing the full transposition of the directives already cited above, 2043, 2078 and the partial transposition by Law 62/2003, as reflected in the preamble to the text. This proposal for a law has its history - the socialist deputy has told part of it -; those who carry some that another legislature by these homes know its genesis and even its processing and negotiation with Leire Pajín and Ramón Jáuregui, to the same ministers of Equality and Presidency respectively, but the legislature ended and went to sleep the dream of the righteous - the proposal for a law, not Mrs Pajín and Mr Jáuregui - until you have regained it again and brought it here. They have recovered it with the relevant modifications that the passage of time requires and does not seem to us wrong, despite having been presented two months before that of the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea against discrimination by sexual orientation, identity or expression of gender and sexual characteristics and of social equality of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, transgender and intersexuals. It was previously registered, but has subsequently been processed. I believe that this proposal for a law, which the Socialists are bringing today, makes more sense. I mean, it should have been earlier because it makes more sense - I don't say the other one doesn't have it -, it's more complete, it's more global. It includes something that the other one specifies, and I think we all agree on that. This proposed law, which, in his words, promotes the cross-cutting application of equal treatment, seeks to create an effective instrument against any discrimination that may be suffered by any person and which addresses all areas from which it may occur, welcoming the most modern conception of human rights and establishing a series of procedures whose effectiveness allows for the protection and reparation of this right in its entirety. It sets out the development of the principle of equality as set out in article 14 of the Constitution and defines the exercise of non-discrimination as a complement to the right to equality and as a guarantee of the enjoyment of all fundamental rights and public freedoms, exercising the so-called "remote action" of article 9.2 of the Constitution. On the other hand, the grounds described in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinions are expressly incorporated as grounds of discrimination also the disease and sexual orientation or identity. Coinciding with comrade Lourdes Ciuro, I would say that it would also be wrong for what is already proposed as the right to have political opinions to include the right to exercise them, to be able to carry out those political ideas that each one has and not to be discriminated against by it. The area of competition is usually a space that my group attaches great importance to when dealing with proposals for legislation in this House and in this case we are not going to be indifferent to it. Unlike the proposal put forward by the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, which we have already discussed and which we accept in the process but which we disagree for its centralizing capacity and because we considered that in many aspects it invaded competences, we believe that this non-law proposal has been quite scrupulous in that respect. We share the whole side that, from the competitive point of view, develops both article 14 and article 9.2 of the Constitution, in principle, respecting the autonomous powers, as stated in this proposed law. There is a final provision which states the scope of its competence and points out specific titles of competence which support the concrete regulation of certain precepts, such as labour law, basic rules for the development of the fundamental right to education, commercial, civil, criminal law, etc. In that regard, it has been quite scrupulous in respecting its sphere of competence. Among the issues related to this competition aspect that may be problematic, both because of your recent recognition of case law and because of the poor determination of its scope, as is the content of Article 31 on the State strategy for equal treatment, you will understand that we do not fully share the criterion you maintain on this subject. Also in the area of non-discrimination, development was the responsibility of the Autonomous Communities, although subparagraph (b) saved this issue by referring to their development, noting that without prejudice to the competences of the Autonomous Communities. You have an entire title dedicated to violations and sanctions. Let me disagree to some extent in this paragraph, because the establishment of a system of violations and sanctions on equal treatment and non-discrimination in this Act - specifically, as I said in Title IV - is controversial. The creation of a system of administrative infringements in this area may be controversial in itself by adding an administrative power over certain actions of citizens whose social sanctions should perhaps be imposed in the courts of justice rather than in public administrations. The text of the proposal also establishes certain types of infringement, classifying them as mild, serious, etc. This is an issue I hope that, if it is dealt with, we can discuss, amend and deal with. As in the previous proposal for a law on non-discrimination submitted by Podemos, we had amendments, doubts and our own criteria in this area, so we will continue to maintain them. That is to say, those amendments which we have tabled as a group and which are already being dealt with, we believe that they can also be valid for this group. In conclusion, if we take into account this proposal for a law - my group will vote in favour of it - I believe that we should reflect on what we do with two proposals for a law that I do not say say the same, because it is not, but one can be one part of the other. When we say colloquially that we should order traffic, we should be able to converge on a criterion so that, if we all agree that non-discrimination must be translated into specific legislation, we should do so into legislation that includes all kinds of discrimination and we are not making small cuts that can lead to confusion. This is not about who puts the flag first, but about the issue of discrimination being settled in the legislation of the Spanish State. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u35	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u36	Too late to all and so to all. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] I do not know whether to speak of your sacred Constitution is to speak of that conciliatory spirit which crystallized four decades ago in the form of a great covenant, but I assure you that for many to speak of this Constitution is to speak of an authentic bunker; it is to speak, in short, of this 1978 regime. A Constitution containing a multitude of recognized rights, rights of vital importance and importance such as the right to housing or the right to decent work. A law which at the same time proclaims, among many others, the right to equality and non-discrimination under any social or personal circumstances. Even - I recall - Article 9(2) establishes the obligation of the public authorities to promote conditions and remove obstacles to the equality of the individual and the groups in which he or she is integrated is real and effective. Ladies and gentlemen, despite what the constitutional text says, there is discrimination in the Spanish State. In the Kingdom of Spain there are many different acts or treatments; arbitrary or unfair treatment that a person, a collective, an institution or an agency perform against another individual or a social group. We all live together and know the existence of people who suffer discrimination or who are victims of criminal attitudes either on the basis of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation or identity, national origin, disability or social exclusion, among many other reasons. It is, in short, a reality from which we cannot and must not escape. This crude reality sinks its roots into a secular and widespread inequality between people and between collectives. As human rights and fundamental freedoms have gained prominence in legal, constitutional or international orders, it is true that their visibility has increased both for the public authorities and for citizens, who end up believing that discriminatory conduct is obviously unacceptable and incompatible with such fundamental rights and freedoms. It is clear that the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination is an essential element of any democratic State and of any rule of law. It is therefore an inescapable principle from the point of view of justice and fundamental rights that, moreover, if articulated in an appropriate way, results in social cohesion, as has already been said, and in sustainable economic development, increasing the legitimacy of public action. We therefore welcome this proposal for a comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination. I must say that in Catalonia the Government adopted a bill on equal treatment and non-discrimination, a law that equated Catalonia with the most advanced States in the fight against the scourge of discrimination, a pioneering and zero-tolerance bill against any kind of discrimination, from harassment to reprisals, a legislative initiative that provided the Catalans with a legal framework that strengthened rights and at the same time made it possible to deal vigorously with situations of discrimination in any field. In fact, a national plan for equal treatment and non-discrimination was also planned, but do you know why it did not end up being approved? Because you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, together with the People's Party and obviously fellow citizens, approved the application of the famous 155, gave a coup d'état to democracy and dissolved Parliament. We also passed a law supplementing the Effective Equality Act, which the CT also suspended. In fact, in Catalonia, we are already accustomed not only to the destruction of laws, but to the loading of laws with a high social content, laws that guarantee fundamental principles and even constitutional principles. I give you some examples: Decree-Law against energy poverty, Law on effective equality between men and women, Law on emergency housing or against evictions, Law on taxes on empty housing... Do all these royal decrees or laws ring a bell? Do some of these rights that are also written in your Constitution sound familiar to you? I do not know what the People's Party is going to vote for today, but what I do know is that it is precisely this party - you, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your ladies and gentlemen - that still does not revoke the declaration of public utility of the HazteOir entity, an entity that promotes daily hatred, for example, towards LGBTI people. Not revoking such an entity as a public entity is not defending the right to equality and non-discrimination. And don't tell me that this is different because in this case we are talking about minors, because it is precisely this, ladies and gentlemen, to guarantee the rights of minors, regardless of whether their parents want them to stop being who they are, because above and beyond the right of parents to educate their children according to their values is the right of all individuals to the free development of personality, and this also includes sexual orientation and gender identity or expression. Esquerra Republicana will give green light to the consideration of this law, but advance you that Esquerra Republicana will not allow the processing of this proposed law to serve as an excuse to paralyse or decafeinate the proposed LGTBI law that we are already processing. This proposal for a law is complementary to the proposal for a law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people and in no case can it be exclusive. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u37	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u38	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is such a broad parliamentary debate that, as you have seen here, each parliamentary group has spoken of its book, up to 155. Well, I'll do the same. Just this weekend I had the opportunity to participate in an event in which I shared table and debate with two people with ASD, disorder of the spectrum of autism, Ignacio and Cristina. I would like to begin by referring to them by talking today about this law for equal treatment and non-discrimination for a matter that they have transmitted to us, and that is that they miss that in the debates on equality that take place here in Congress we talk about them, that they talk about autism and, in general, about any disability of development or functional diversity, as in this case they prefer to call it. They should be given visibility if we want to remove prejudices that are the result of lack of information. Equality must necessarily go hand in hand with the recognition of diversity in its entirety. As I have little time, I will set a very concrete example - I want them to listen to it - of the discrimination that girls suffer with ASD to relate it to the law that we are now discussing. These girls are experiencing double discrimination at all stages of their lives, which begins with the diagnosis. It is curious that four times as many cases of ASD are diagnosed in boys as in girls. We could all think that this is the case because children simply suffer more than girls; in fact, that is what has been thought so far, but it seems not. If fewer cases are diagnosed in girls, it is because the way this disorder has to manifest is very different in both sexes, and it turns out that the measuring instruments with which health professionals rely are basically focused on the symptoms that children have. Therefore, it is not easy to diagnose when it comes to girls, confusing them with other disorders. Cristina was not diagnosed until she was eighteen years old; this delay in the diagnosis will have consequences for her entire life, and with this also for access to equal opportunities, of the law we are talking about here today. Will the law of the Socialist Party solve issues like this? I don't think so. I have said this on other occasions, it is never more important to talk about equality, to delve into the value of equality, to talk and to talk, but our work should not be confined to mere declarations of intent. This initiative is intended to be so minimally common, as Mrs Álvarez said, that it remains virtually nothing, and we do not believe that it should in any case replace other more specific laws that, as has already been pointed out in this rostrum, are being dealt with in this House. The citizens want their problems to be solved, the problems they suffer day by day, the problems they lack opportunities. In the area of equality, it is necessary to go down to the concrete, of course, with specific laws that address this enormous diversity of human beings. We question the effectiveness of this rule and, moreover, as has been said, it is a law taken from the trunk of 2011. The fact is that since that year the legislative landscape in the area of anti-discrimination rights has changed. The transposition of the directives which they claim in their explanatory statement has already taken place, although I agree that it has been done with a certain low profile. But we here are also dealing with specific laws, such as the one dealing with the discrimination of the LGBTI collective, on the gender pay gap, etc. Do you really think that a law is necessary right now that aims, in such a generic way, to promote the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, which you already know is enshrined in our Constitution? We don't think so, but of course we're not going to stop it from being processed. We shall vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, you, in Title I, in a more academic than legal exercise, are talking about classifications, without being aware that you are in danger of forgetting some kind of discrimination, which is actually - as it cannot be otherwise - happening. For example, they do not include the discrimination that can be found in the citizen's relations with the public administration, which also exists. Look at what's going on with the public university lately: some people's privileges against others are being questioned. Ladies and gentlemen, that is discrimination too. The general anti-discrimination rule will always apply, and this is not the case, but article 14 of the Spanish Constitution. What you include in this Title I will not provide any new protection against these discriminations. Another issue that includes this law and that we cannot ignore is that it responds to a certain ideology that seeks to socialize everything, including the defence of equality. You seem to forget article 10 of our Constitution, the one that speaks of personal dignity, the one that says that the rights are of people and that they are inviolable, the one that seeks to ensure the free development of our personality. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, individual freedom. We have no rights to belong to a collective or a certain group, we have them to be individuals, from our individuality and in diversity, something which you Socialist ladies and gentlemen very often do not take into account. They often find it difficult to accept the freedom of persons, especially in cases affecting women and their decision-making capacity. With regard to Title II, which deals with the defence and promotion of the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, it is true that there are positive articles to be taken into consideration, but with regard to legitimation there is another issue that we cannot ignore, and which are included in Article 27, in which political parties are given legitimacy to defend particular interests, which seems to us to be a very serious mistake. The action of justice cannot be politicized, let alone through the defence of equality with a totalizing pretension. I'm done, President. This point for us is radically unacceptable in principle and because, moreover, sometimes, as I said before, in the defense of the equality that you exercise forget many variables. There is no real freedom if there is no equality, but there is no equality if there is no freedom. We are not going to admit in any case that the protection of individual rights escapes citizens, to individual protection, and much less that it falls into the hands of political parties. It is precisely in the Committee on Justice that we are working to limit popular action. You too, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, or so they said. Finally - I conclude, because I have no more time - we must talk about Title III, which is dedicated to the creation of the authority for equal treatment, which we do not share either. It is true that Directive 2000/43 of 29 June provides for the possibility for each State to designate a body responsible for the promotion of equal treatment, but in our view there are already bodies promoting it in Spain, there are specific bodies in different areas dedicated to it, and in this respect we also have the Ombudsman. As this body is configured, we believe it could be unconstitutional by invading certain competencies. And if that were not the case, it would pose problems in articulating this collaboration with the autonomous communities. I would ask you, please, to stop creating bodies that serve citizens very little. In short, we will allow this initiative to proceed because equality is one of the basic pillars of our democracy, but we will amend it in the sense I have set out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u40	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like this House to think for a moment of the woman killed yesterday in Girona, of all the women killed by macho violence. Out of political responsibility and dignity this violation of human rights on the basis of sex challenges us and we urgently need sufficient resources to deal with it. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Group is bringing today this proposal for a law that does not seem bad to us as we, in fact, were carrying into our agenda Law 14, for equal treatment and non-discrimination and the promotion of coexistence, which covers three objectives: to ensure the independence and accessibility of the Spanish Observatory of Racism and Xenophobia; to create a comprehensive state plan of coexistence to prevent racism, xenophobia and any form of discrimination, with measures to ensure the right to employment, with the training of officials and public employees, with particular emphasis on the State Security Forces and Bodies, and with media dissemination and support; and, finally, to create mechanisms for the recovery of the integral memory of victims at the borders, and progress in the process of decolonization. They are now bringing this bill because ECRI, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, in its 2017 report, calls on Spain to create independent bodies that do not exist today, because the Socialist Government created in 2007 the Council for the Elimination of Racial or Ethnic Discrimination and it turns out - says ECRI, we do not say it - that it is not an independent body. So, well, I understand that it is laudable to go back on the steps and see when the claims of civil society and international agencies have not been properly addressed and rectified. It is not in vain that we have seen it in this House a few months ago with the Registration Change Act which was initially pathological for trans people and which is going to have to be amended. That is why we want to see the proposed legislation put forward and put forward amendments accepted, so that our legislation is in line with what the street and international agencies are demanding without having to wait another eleven years to make corrections. I shall go on to mention some of the contradictions that we see in this proposal. This law must have the status of organic law because it refers to fundamental rights. If we leave it in that it is an ordinary law it may contradict other laws and when we see a case of discrimination that reaches a court it is all subsumed to the criterion of interpretation of the judge on duty. And we know, we know well from the Equality Commission - we have said it many times - that our courts, our justices, need much more training with a feminist and cross-sectoral perspective. Moreover, systematically, the law does not specify any discriminated groups as specified by ECRI and tells us that they are trans, LGTBI, Roma, migrant people. It does not specify any group of them and does not have an intersectoral perspective, so they cannot eliminate discrimination from a group unless they clearly specify which groups are discriminated against. If there is officially no ethnic group, as is the case with the Roma population, how are we going to ensure that they are not discriminated against? By the way, the Roma population in Germany, Sweden or Portugal, which has a much smaller population than in Spain, is recognized. It is not that we interfere, it is that these are fundamental rights. This bill has no comprehensive human rights or cross-cutting perspective and, moreover, I think it is important to talk about what specification and deepening is necessary and that we understand that when we specify and deepening we see that there are measures that need to be specific and concrete, such as, for example, since it has mentioned them on several occasions, the LGTBI Equality Act, which has been admitted to procedure in this House, in which we are working and in which we are going to continue to work. I understand that this law will not, at all, to the detriment of you. He doesn't have that cross-sectional perspective. Here I would like to say, in relation to one thing that was said by the spokesman for Citizens, that it is not so much that we are talking about each of our books as we understand what intersectionality consists of. Intersectorality is an analytical paradigm around discrimination arising from the self-reflection of African American women since the 19th century, with developments brought by Roma, migrant and indigenous women. I believe that from the feminist perspective, precisely to the spokesman who has defended this proposal of law, and who is a referent within the feminism that is Angeles Álvarez, he cannot escape the need that must also be reflected in this law. I am sure that this feminist perspective seems to the defender of the same and I am sure that she agrees with the Afro-descendant Crenshaw theory when she speaks, precisely, of anti-discrimination law, how it treats gender and race separately, thus preventing women who face cross-cutting discrimination from exercising their rights. Ignoring the contribution of these women is in itself racist, it is wanting to build and defend without listening to what African-descendant theorists like Crenshaw have deepened by the common. The paradigm of intersectionality questions that racialized women's difficulties are something personal. The difficulties are put by the institutions when they sit in the paradigm that everything has to do with the canon of a male, white, cisgenero, heterosexual, middle-aged and middle-class. That suit is worth one, but it's not worth all of us, not all of us, not all of us. [[Applauds]] I'm done with three more notes. Mention is made of the body of authority for equal treatment and non-discrimination. They're going to allow me to see in the language a tremendous oxymoron between saying authority and saying equality, and also to see some perversion in ambiguity because when we're defining little we can end up giving good and independent things that, not being explicit, maybe aren't. Financing; nothing says about the economic resources allocated to it and as it depends on Mr Montoro, I don't know what will be able to get out of section 26, as seen. Finally, access to justice; in order to guarantee and protect the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination of excluded groups, it is essential to articulate a law providing for access to direct justice. We do not see that in the measures they put forward because it does not include any way to improve access to justice directly, because individual and collective redress measures are out of tune and - this is very important - because it does not guarantee that human rights defenders can access justice and receive protection from harassment, threat, reprisal and violence, and many of the people who are here are certainly thinking of activist Helena Maleno. In conclusion in this law, in its indefinacy and ambiguity, there may end up being this perversion but nothing happens because, precisely, we are going to vote in favour to avoid something that points to the law and that I believe that this, in the parliamentary debate, can be constructive; this could be a wish and I cannot. We will vote in favour because we want to see ourselves in the amendments so that this law is a we want and a we can. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u41	Mrs Dueñas Martínez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to set out my group's position on taking into account the proposal for a law, rescued, as has been said before, from the one tabled in 2011 by the Socialist Government, which was not dealt with, the proposal for a law on equal treatment and non-discrimination. It has already announced that we will vote in favour of it and we will do so because it is necessary, reasonable and in the interests of the principle of responsibility and commitment that this parliamentary group defends daily in the fight against true equality and against discrimination. In Spain there are state laws regulating equal treatment and non-discrimination in a sectoral way, there are different actions that take place from the General Administration of the State through transversal plans and also, in the area of their competences, the autonomous communities develop policies of equal treatment and non-discrimination, but the truth is that there are none that governs it in a general way. The existence of a normative instrument to prevent discrimination in all its fields, to implement corrective mechanisms where necessary and to improve the protection of persons suffering from it could contribute positively to the mandate of article 9.2 of our Constitution and would also align with our international commitments to combat discrimination. That said, ladies and gentlemen, we believe it is necessary to make a number of clarifications which will logically be developed in the course of amendments, amendments which will be made in order to respect the principle of proportionality so that those differential treatment measures are duly justified and adjusted in law. Thus, for example, in your article, ladies and gentlemen, the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination is only considered to be guaranteed and promoted, but it is not considered, for example, to guarantee the right to respect for the dignity of individuals and protection against intolerance in addition to discrimination. In our view, this would be important. Nor does it refer to an important and growing problem, which I am sure you will share with me, the discrimination and intolerance that are spread over the Internet and social networks in violation of the constitutional values that we are addressing here today. Another of the issues that I believe I need to clarify is that the proposal submitted on the basis of the view that the transposition of different equality directives in our country, 2000/43, 2000/78, was only partial and not in line with the purposes and objectives of those directives. I have to say that we do not share that view, ladies and gentlemen, because the transposition was complete and appropriate. The same could be said of Directive 2006/54 of the European Parliament on the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation, which, as you know, was transposed into our legal system through the Organic Law for the Law on Effective Equality between Women and Men. I must also say, ladies and gentlemen, that in your haste to bring back to this House this proposal for a law, certain issues which are already approved, which are already regulated and reflected in our legal system, have certainly been omitted, but I am convinced that they will be specified in this subsequent procedure. These errors, ladies and gentlemen, in our view, reveal some confusion in their elaboration; confusion which even leaves out some of the recommendations made by the Council of State in its day, which were neither incorporated then nor incorporated now and which could cause danger or could cause some legal uncertainty in any of the points contained in this proposal for a law. In the field of education, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination is included in the educational legislation in force very briefly with regard to Article 16 (2), which they have maintained in the same sense as the original proposal. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the admission of pupils to the organisation of gender-differentiated education, provided that they comply with the principles set out in the Constitution, does not constitute any discrimination in the process of schooling. In the end, the problem was not differentiated education but the drafting of, at the time, article 84.3 of the Organic Law on Pre-Lomce Education and, since it was a matter related to the financing of schools, the law that drafted the State General Budgets for 2013 sought to remedy that end. In fact, the Council of State, as the honourable Member will know, also stated in its opinion on the draft Organic Law for the Improvement of Educational Quality and noted that differentiated education is a recognized option in a number of developed countries and has been the subject of positive analysis and assessment in various international case law bodies, including the European Court of Justice. A number of recommendations were made by the Council of State which have been included in the current regulation of the Organic Law for the Improvement of Educational Quality. As regards the independent authority for equal treatment and non-discrimination, in the view of this party, Your Honor, the material or procedural regulation of equal treatment and non-discrimination does not have to be accompanied by the creation of new organizational structures that perform functions that are duplicated with those attributed to the Government or to other dependent bodies because this would ultimately be against the reforms adopted in the area of rationalisation of the public sector. As you know, there are already bodies working in this regard, such as the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, the Secretariat for Social Services and Equality; moreover, under this Secretariat of State, the Institute for Women and Equal Opportunities, to which certain collegiate bodies working in this field are attached: the National Council for Disability, the State Council for Older Persons and the State Council for the Gypsy People; special mention is also due, and has been noted here, the Council for the Elimination of Racial or Ethnic Discrimination attached to the Institute for Women, in addition to the Spanish Observatory for Racism and Xenophobia attached to the Ministry of Employment and Social Security and also, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Ombudsman, who is responsible for the defence of fundamental rights and public freedoms. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the more than reasonable doubts on this part about the creation of this new figure, in addition to the arguments put forward, also arises from the view that assigning a judge's role to an administrative authority would mean a loss in citizens' rights in terms of today's most independent and better guaranteed authority for citizens' rights and that it also has this function assigned to it is, without a doubt, the judicial one. I'm closing up. In another order, and by not extending it further, we believe that the concept of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or identity, sexual orientation and gender identity should be reworded in order to bring it into line with the terminology commonly accepted in international forums for the promotion and protection of human rights. Now I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, almost as I began. We in the People's Parliamentary Group consider it a good thing to have a law on equal treatment for its implementation from the administrative point of view and to do so in a cross-cutting way. We will continue to work during the process of amendments in order to ensure that this bill is truly comprehensive in nature, is in line with our legal and community framework, and allows us to have a solid set of tools provided, flexible and law-adjusted to resolve more quickly those situations of inequality and discrimination which unfortunately, as has been pointed out today in this House, continue to occur in our society. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u44	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. First of all, a non-law proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the defence of traditional and retail trade. Mrs Palmer Tous has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u45	President, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting a non-law proposal for the defence of traditional and retail trade. [[The Lord]] And we do so not only out of our own conviction or because we are asked to do so, but above all because we consider it to be of justice. Because the People's Party believes in a sector that is vital to the development and coexistence of all our peoples and cities. And we know that because our offices, our affiliates, our councillors, our mayors, live stuck to the ground, live day by day on the streets and there we see the very important role that small traders have. [[Applauds]] For us trade giants don't come from China or the United States. For us the great giants, to which we must protect and to which we must value, are the autonomous ones, who every day with their effort and with tesón rise the blind of their business with a smile and with great professionalism. This small trade, led, as I say, by great professionals, has undoubtedly advantages that we cannot and do not want to obviate. Not only because it gives life to each and every neighborhood in our towns and cities, that is to say because of the huge social impact it commented on, but also because it has an important economic impact because of the volume it represents. For one thing, there are 575,000 retail outlets in Spain that employ 1,850,000 people, almost 10% of people working in Spain, nothing less. As regards their development, with the economic growth that we have experienced in recent years, there is an increase in household consumption expenditure and also in retail sales; and it does so by a similar percentage, around the last published figure of 2.5%. Therefore, in the light of this data one might think that this sector is in good health and that it does not seem to have problems in the short term. But no; it is not, nothing further from reality. In fact, the presence and the contribution of value of this sector is in danger and a negative trend in the large indicators of its weight is being perceived. As evidence of this latest training, while retail sales said they were growing by about 2.5% annually, over the past year the number of premises has decreased by 0.4%, a decreasing trend that we have seen in other countries such as the United States not long ago. In Spain it is so, the shops are closing their doors and they do, we believe, for two great reasons. On the one hand for the burst of changes in the way we buy as a result of the technological innovations and the enormous ease we all have to access the networks with our devices. But also, and I want to make it clear, for the unfair competition that some companies are selling below cost. And they do so thanks to tax havens that allow us not to pay taxes or, worse still, by directly withdrawing public resources from the state through the famous, for example, carousel VAT fraud. He said that purchases through mobile phones, tablets and other devices have had an impact on traditional trade; it has been so, it has influenced the smallest influx of people into traditional trades and threaten to end up capturing a large part of the market share of this trade, a trade that, as I said before, gives personality to our cities and prevents the commercial streets from becoming empty and desolate spaces. At this point, however, I would like to stress that this is not about preventing the development of new forms of trade, it is not about preventing competition; we are not legislating against anyone, no, we want to legislate for someone, but above all we want to ensure that all agents act under the same conditions and that is the key to this GNP. The new modalities must meet all the requirements that can be met in an advanced State in which we all collaborate for the support of the welfare State. These new forms of trade, these large platforms, in addition to the lower capacity to generate employment, also have a contribution to make to the public coffers, through very limited taxes. Obviating - because I do not insist on the subject - the VAT fraud that I have mentioned earlier, the most obvious reflection of this last statement is the collection of company tax. This tax is characterized by an enormous technical complexity due to the difference between accounting and tax benefits due to the different adjustments implemented by different States. There is a lack of fiscal harmonization that is absolutely exploited by these large multinationals with subsidiaries in different countries that use these different taxes between States. These companies take advantage of this by transferring artificially - but within the lawfulness, everything has to be said - profits to those territories with a more advantageous taxation. The consequence of all this is that we have unfair tax competition between States from which, as I say, these large multinational companies benefit. Taxation is therefore one of the major problems that we have in this respect and is one of the problems that we are fighting and that we are going to fight. From the People's Parliamentary Group we have very clearly that all activities dedicated to the same must pay the same taxes, whether they sell physically or if they do so online. [[Applauds]] Everyone, everyone, must be subject to the same rules, whether tax or consumer protection. I also want to reflect here: when I say to everyone, I mean everyone, not only the e-commerce platforms, but also those who engage in illegal street sales and compete unfairly with those who, as I have said, stand up every day to open their shops, their blinds, with effort and sacrifice and also comply with all existing regulations. When we defend small trade, we face all forms of unfair competition. [[Applauds]] In short, we defend traditional trade, support it and want it to be excellent and competitive and for this it must play its cards: quality, specialization and proximity to the customer. It must implement its own digital transformation and design a competitive strategy to incorporate itself into the current dynamic - it is inevitable -, yes, maintaining its identity signs and with a clear value proposition that includes unique products and great customer service. To that end, ladies and gentlemen, traditional trade will have the Government by its side, it will have us with them, it already has us with them; together with these entrepreneurs who each morning give us a lesson of courage, those entrepreneurs who make this a great country and who want us to continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palmer. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group is speaking, which will also fix a position on this occasion, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. This initiative addresses a major issue for the economy and employment of many families, since when we talk about retail and traditional trade we are doing so from a sector that provides almost 2 million jobs, which accounts for 5% of national GDP and that, while its evolution in sales and employment in recent years cannot be denied, it has suffered continuous losses for more than four consecutive years at the most severe moments of economic crisis. The recovery of retail trade is slow and, above all, unstable; only in 2017, compared to seven months of increased sales, had five months of decline, which drags companies towards an inadequate economic environment to schedule their future development, invest and create stable employment, our top priority. Combating such an imbalance requires deepening the measures that have been taken through a succession of comprehensive plans that began in 2013. Today, the digital transformation of the retail trade is indefatigable, as is also very peremptory the fiscal regulation that combats any vantage point of the great technocratic empires, multinationals with great expertise in the engineering of the digital economy against which our small trade cannot compete on equal terms. Further planning by the Government is also essential to make the defence of our businesses more effective with the recovery of the regulated periods of rebates, to give greater security to consumers and to preserve a sector on a permanent discount and loss of economic capacity. It is also necessary to repeal the obligation to declare areas of tourist influx, which benefits only large distribution companies, like all measures to liberalise business hours. The regulation of open shopping centres is also needed as a proven formula for public-private collaboration for the development of trade and the urban environment, providing them with legislation to adopt the Anglo-Saxon IDB formula and to ensure stable public funding and compulsory contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, the text of this non-legislative proposal draws attention to the fact that there is not a single reference to the comprehensive plan to support the competitiveness of Spain's retail trade, which has been in force for a year and involves practically all ministries. It is inexcusable to enhance each and every one of its ten strategic lines of action, hence it has tabled an amendment with a special call in the formative aspects related to the digital economy, because, although Spain has improved, our country has a deficit in human capital and digital technological skills. Our shortcomings are noted in the annual European Digital Economy and Society Index, DESI, and it is therefore urgent to correct them, as is urgent, as the initiative points out, measures against tax avoidance around e-commerce. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u49	Thank you very much, President, ladies and gentlemen. It is curious the proposal of the People's Party, which comes to this rostrum to say that it is very concerned about retail and traditional trade, and that it is a concern that implies that this House should take a position. It is all right, in fact, there is little to blame in the explanatory statement, we might even agree; but, of course, the commitments are the same as a minority formation, the Joint Group, some formation of eight or ten Members, but that the training that gives support to the Government comes with this proposal in relation to traditional trade is, say, poor, it is to justify, to cover quota or to tell some lost trader that they care about it, because the trader has to be very lost to think that the People's Party is concerned about its sector. And the question is: you govern, what do you do from the government to worry about this sector apart from proposals that are not generic, well-intentioned and that do not make any concrete statements? Well, the truth is, very little, Mrs. Palmer, and I'm sorry. Of course, we agree to encourage public-private collaboration. Have you done anything? Have you regulated this? Who did it? The Parliament of Catalonia, the Government of the Generalitat. That government and parliament that are only concerned about the monotheme, apart from the monotheme, for many months, have been working, have been regulating and have approved the Llei de Comerç, Serveis i Fires in August 2017. Apart from the monotheme, he was working on it. There, public-private partnerships such as urban economic promotion areas are regulated. But what has happened to that law? Has it been provided financially by the Government of the State? Did you support her? No, no, Can't you be surprised what happened to the Parliament Act? It has been appealed to the Constitutional Court and suspended by the Constitutional Court. Why? Because it regulated business hours and because it regulated opening days on holidays. Because retail trade is harmed by net trade, but large areas are also harmed and cannot compete on equal terms. Therefore, apart from well-intentioned motions, they must bring in draft laws, regulate and not put difficulties to those who do their work, and forget the Constitutional Court in relation to retail trade. You must also explain to the Catalan merchant that when the Catalan Parliament regulates to protect him, you take him to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Fuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, the truth is that you come here and do not believe it. You have come here today to congratulate the thousands of traders in this country who raise the blind every day and bring it in without any measure. Please come with concrete measures. Tell us what they're doing from the government. [[Applauds]] Today the People's Group presents us with a non-legislative proposal in defense of traditional and retail trade and, as always, you are late. And is it that you are able to imagine your neighborhood, your people, the place where you will see without trade? Tell me because it looks like it. You don't care very much. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been happening for a number of years. While large retail businesses also suffer from the problem presented here today of the unfair tax competition of large technological multinationals, traditional or neighborhood businesses also suffer from the null digitisation of their businesses, the changing urbanism of populations, also of their mayors, the lack of generational relief or competition under more harmful conditions. For sample, a button. The main square of La Nucia, my village. Well, in this square thirty years ago there were more than twenty-five shops and of those today there is only one that has managed to adapt to the new challenges. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is the autonomous who have put on the 10th of this plenary session of Congress thanks to my parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] It is the autonomous and the families who raise the blinds every day, who bring the best of them to create wealth, employment and meet the needs of their clients, who give value to what they do in a fair way, dedicated with passion, without schedules, without holidays, and do so because they are an intrinsic part of the society in which they develop. Of this something could tell you, something that I am especially proud of, especially when it becomes a way of understanding life. Undoubtedly, traditional trade brings closeness, professionalism and personal dedication, which no other type of trade can contribute. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already good to let retail and traditional trade compete in conditions far more unfavourable than other digital companies, which, thanks to their tax base, do not tax in our country and take the benefits to tax havens. And in this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you are also late. My group tabled a non-legislative proposal a few weeks ago in the Committee on Finance concerning the establishment of a minimum effective taxation in Spain on the benefits of large technological multinationals. Does that ring a bell? By the way, it was passed without any vote against. It was my colleague Francisco de la Torre who warned them of the injustice that supposed that these companies would be subject to a very low tax rate on the huge profits they generated, while the conservatives and the left continued to increase the fiscal pressure on our traders since the crisis. Are they really buying it? In this way, while these technological multinationals are subject to an effective rate of 9%, the rest of the European Union's companies are subject to an average rate of 23.2%, and this is totally unacceptable. According to a study carried out by several MEPs, Spain stopped receiving some 482 million euros between 2013 and 2015. That is why we want the various players to play on the same terms. In Citizens we do not think that we can go against the tide of new online buying habits or, therefore, of the companies that offer it, but we must not hide and do nothing to ensure that there is free competition. We have tabled a modification amendment in the same terms as paragraph 27 of the agreement, in which we already set out concrete measures, which you have not brought here today, to help and provide tools to retail and traditional trade, such as, for example, helping to adapt technological changes or to promote the effective incorporation of technology into the production processes and value chain and the emergence of new business models. We hope that they will accept our amendment and we will support the non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Cano. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Retail trade is a key sector of the economy both because of its capacity to create self-employment and self-employment and because of its capacity to enhance urban development in towns and cities. It is true that small and medium-sized trade faces many challenges or challenges, since, on the one hand, consumers' habits have changed - they seek comfort, speed or immediacy - and, on the other hand, the technological changes resulting from digitisation, which forces them to adapt if they want to remain competitive, must be taken into account. New ways of consuming have resulted in an increase in e-commerce in the world, as spending on online shopping grows and consolidates year after year. In this scenario, the arrival of digital platforms, such as Alibaba or Amazon, to retail trade has meant a new way of buying, ranging from planning to after-sales service, offering its customers a number of advantages: variety, comfort, guarantees and prices that retail businesses have not been able or have not been able to apply. Although retailing is characterized from the customer's point of view by attention to detail, personal attention and physical contact with which he wishes to buy, it is not enough to combat the advantages offered by these platforms to his customers, so a change in his business model is necessary. This, coupled with a decrease in sales in physical stores, a reduction in the number of commercial establishments and an increase in the unemployment rate in the sector, makes it necessary for administrations to take measures to boost and strengthen the activity of retail trade. We are in an increasingly globalized world. E-commerce or e-commerce has become one of the protagonists, as e-commerce via the Internet continues to grow. This fact must be seen not only as an opportunity, but also as a challenge for traditional trade, which must compete with these multinationals in unequal conditions. Not everyone plays with the same rules in the new scenario that has opened up in the world of economic globalization and digitization. It is therefore necessary to have legislation adapted to the new times. In this scenario, already in 2016, the European Commission, in its objective of strengthening the digital single market, proposed a series of measures on indirect taxation of electronic commerce that have been approved at Ecofin 2017 for entry into force between 2019 and 2021. Among these proposals, it has been agreed that online sales platforms called marketplaces, such as Amazon or Alibaba, will be responsible for ensuring the collection of VAT for sales made on their platform by companies located outside the European Union to European consumers in order, on the one hand, to increase collection and, on the other, to reduce fraud, although there is still a need for regulation that also addresses direct taxation of cross-border online sales. Having said that, we have to say that the People's Parliamentary Group is once again bringing us a generic GNP as an instrument to boost the political action of the Government, which, by the way, belongs to its party. It is not wrong to propose a series of common guiding principles that are easy to share, but it does not seem very right to do so without concrete contributions that serve the purpose presented. We also say this because in their GNP they use verbs like supporting and pushing, but we believe that without meeting concrete objectives. In the light of what we see, these are good intentions and the Government is not even urged to take any concrete action. As I said, it is a generic GNP and what the government should do is act. In addition, there are already communities that are doing so. Thus, in Euskadi we already have examples of public-private partnerships with trade tables at which both the public administration and the private sector are found for the dynamism of trade. It is true that the GNP contains good intentions. Let us see what the compromise is like and whether some of the amendments tabled are acceptable. That's why we're not saying our position right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u55	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome and welcome again, ladies and gentlemen, to a PNL desiderátum of the People's Parliamentary Group. Not in the mood to spoil your afternoon, Mrs. Palmer, good speech, but it doesn't sting. The little conviction of the applause of his colleagues, reprehensible moreover, speaks of his poor enthusiasm and commitment to the theme that brings us here this afternoon. In fact, it makes it baffle that the party of the large areas, of the liberalization of the timetables and of the liberalization of the rents, the party that has never defended the retail and traditional trade, comes to whitewash its tomb with a list of good purposes so seemingly well-intentioned that it is impossible to say no. But, Mrs. Palmer, your thing is that of saying the llop that sheep have good health, says the wolf that sheep have good health. If after the damage you have done to the Spanish retail trade, the little consideration to the local realities of trade in every national reality that the State understands, if you are not able to bring something more concrete to this letter to the Magi who must have recommended their surveys, your credibility remains exactly where it was: under zero. We have spoken with different employers of trade, with the unions; we have spoken with our voters, with whom we identify, at last, with our people who - I am not going to be the only speaker who does not say so - are the ones who raise the blind every morning. By the way, many and many of them, when at night they come down the blind, join the civic and peaceful actions of the CoR of their neighbourhood or of their people. [[Applauds]] Not one of these who I mentioned to you has been able to contain an ironic smile when we spoke to you about the proposals that you bring to this House this afternoon for trade. When you overcome the rage of the convert and really want to speak seriously about the retail trade and undo your many tantrums, we will be happy to talk to you, but, for starters, do not invade the competences of the autonomous communities, abandon the harassment via TC of which Mr Bel made memorial and come with concrete and parameterizable objectives, with budget items under the arm that serve more than to give satisfaction to those who in the surveys abandon them, tired of their promise is not to give but it is to rejoice. Don't hang up, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I must admit that I find it difficult to understand the meaning of the government party's efforts to guide the political action of the government itself. This reminds me a lot of the promises of the new year that you make to yourself not to fulfill. Now they say they're going to support small business and fight tax fraud and they just need to add that they're going to quit smoking and sign up for a gym. They are all promises that in the end turn out to be more false than the master's degree in Cifuentes. [[Applauds]] In this GNP they say they want to urge the government to support public campaigns that highlight the advantages of traditional retail trade and promote its digital transformation. The draft 2018 budgets that have just been submitted include a reduction of 44% in trade, tourism and SMEs from 2009 and, even worse, within the trade budget only 2% is allocated to the programme for the modernisation of trade structures. These are made and not promises, gentlemen of the PP. Moreover, the measures of the People's Party in the previous legislature have only served to harm small trade for the benefit of large areas. Before 2012 the state legislation recognized the need for a balance between small trade and large areas, but in 2012 the PP government liberalized opening hours and downtimes, breaking this balance and generally harming small trade. In September 2012, the PP approved the widespread increase in VAT on almost all products, a regressive tax that directly affects household consumption levels. In many cases, small trade had to assume as losses the increase in prices that the increase in VAT entailed in order to cope with the aggressive promotions that the large areas made. As a result, between 2010 and 2018 small trade lost 10 % of sales, while large areas increased 17 %, according to INE data. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Speaking of taxes, they also say in this GNP that they want to continue to drive measures against the tax avoidance of large multinationals. Yeah, go on, they say. There is nothing we can expect in this regard from a government which makes tax concessions, which detains those who report fraud and which allows large companies in our country to end up paying an effective rate of 7% thanks to the multiple deductions specifically designed for them, while small traders who cannot take advantage of them have to pay 25%. On the other hand, the Government has also not taken any steps to improve the situation of SMEs and self-employed in this legislature, beyond the timid reform of Citizens. SMEs and the self-employed continue to have very difficult access to the credit market, despite the fact that we have spent EUR 60 billion on rescuing the bank. Nor has a real second chance law been developed, and in this country, thanks to you, the failure of the entrepreneur continues to be condemned instead of focusing on it as a phase to achieve success, as is the case in other countries. On the other hand, the vast majority of small traders are self-sufficient. What does the People's Party offer autonomous people? One of the highest quotas in Europe and with lower coverage, 275 euros of minimum quota and more than 600 to have a decent coverage. To give a close example, my mother, who is self-employed, has a bar, pays more than 600 euros and with the returns she gets barely comes to cover the expenses. It is of no use to him the timid reform of Citizens that only affects the new autonomous. The autonomous of this country need a reform that allows them to pay the quota on the basis of what they earn, something logical and common sense and which you, from the government, refuse to apply. [[Applauds]] Finally, and more importantly, small trade needs to spread wealth to boost demand and turn it into more consumption and sales, a virtuous circle that can only be achieved by increasing wages and by redistributing the benefits of growth. Yesterday Eurostat published that wages in Spain grow five times less and that labour costs are 30% lower than in the euro area average. In ten years, the difference in the labour cost in Spain compared to the European Union average has been widened by 7%, the same trend that follows public expenditure and revenue, whose gap with respect to the European average is increasing year by year. It is impossible that with their labor reforms and increasingly scarce budgets, one can reduce inequality, increase the disposable income of households and improve sales of small businesses; well, except for the luxury boutiques in the Salamanca neighbourhood, which are the only ones that have not passed the crisis. [[Applauds]] Look, gentlemen of the PP, I bring you the bottle opener with which I open the bottles when I give a hand at the bar, I bring you the bottle opener so that you stop putting on the bottle and open the bottle of wages, public investment and real support for SMEs and self-employed people. [[shows an opener]] Only then can we get out of the impoverishing spiral to which our policies lead. Ah! and also open the bottle of resignations and stop embarrassing all the people of this country, including the autonomous ones who lift the blind every morning. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u58	Thank you very much, Mr González. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u59	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. The Group of the European People's Party today arrives at the plenary session full of good intentions and good words, at least in the statement of its proposal, in defence of the traditional and retail trade. But, ladies and gentlemen, rather than good words, what retail and traditional trade needs are measures, budgets and a lot of innovation. We are talking - and it has already been said - about about 1 800 000 people employed on average annually in the retail trade sector and about half a million businesses. To talk about retail and proximity trade is to talk about a model of cities, an urban economy that generates value and increases the quality of life of citizens, an ecosystem in which different activities coexist that give life to the personality of historical centres and, therefore, they do not have to become or do not want to become centres of consumption. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they bring good words today, but I cannot think of a government that has ignored and, at the same time, mistreated retail and traditional trade more than the People's Party government over the past seven years. The wave of liberalizing decrees in its legislature of absolute majority, with total interference in the internal trade competences of the autonomous communities and of the municipalities in terms of the imposition and regulation of areas of great tourist influx and commercial schedules, until what has been called the war of commercial schedules, without counterpart in plans of action and dialogue with the administrations that are on foot in the sector, with the federations of neighbors and associations of users and even with the sector itself, is entrepreneurship. To this gross legislative force must be added the drop in the budget allocated by the Central Administration to the modernization of retail trade, and I will set a single example for them. The heading for the management and modernisation of trade structures in the general budgets has not ceased to decrease since 2011, to the point that in 2017 it was 61% lower than the budget that my Government left in 2011. And above the poverty of this item, which does not reach 5 million euros, it has not been executed in its entirety. In 2018 - now that we are in budgets - it seems to increase, but it does so in staff costs, which multiply by three, while the little that is destined to the sector remains frozen down since 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have said this - I think there has been a clamor on the part of all those involved - this is a non-propagandist proposal for a false defence of retail trade, and I am also saying this for a reason. At the last meeting of the Finance Commission on 14 March, the Citizens' Group submitted a non-legislative proposal for the establishment of effective taxation in respect of multinational transactions. What a coincidence, everyone voted in favour except for you, who abstained. The most curious thing is what the spokesman of the People's Party said in this case, saying that day that we were not going to invent gunpowder or solve the problem and that they did not understand the hurry to approve this GNP. For you would not understand the haste to approve this GNP, but the next day - that was March 14 - on March 15, you went to register this proposal, which goes in the same line as they had presented but with much less ambition in the proposals that are made. Ladies and gentlemen, a little order and concert. [[Applauds]] And I tell you more, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: hurry, all of you, because there is a real urgency regarding the modernization of the retail sector - if you want to do something, beyond this toast to the sun - and I will give you a data: According to the latest data from the CNMCData panel, the turnover of electronic commerce in Spain increases at a rate of more than EUR 1 billion each year since 2012. The difference between what is bought from abroad to Spanish websites and what is bought from Spain abroad results in a deficit of EUR 2 billion. There are also more transactions on foreign websites than on Spanish websites, i.e. from Spain to abroad. In short, they ask us to support a GNP in defence of traditional and retail trade that does not promote legislative improvements, that does not pronounce on budget falls, that does not speak of the comprehensive plan of support for the competitiveness of trade - which really is about what they would have to explain - that does not mark political lines of cooperation with autonomous communities and municipalities - that are the administrations that have transferred the powers to manage it - and that does not urge the Government to a real policy of modernization. Everything has played against the sector. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do they accumulate suspended or not presented in all subjects, and do they want us to approve this master's degree? President Rajoy's government has done nothing for the retail trade in this country, and they dare to say now that they support it, that they defend it? Do you want us to give you the approved one? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the government accumulates suspended or not presented and you are too tactical. Bring a bill that amends the failure of the laws they passed in their - I was going to say dynasty - absolute legislature, but not simple words, because it is no longer the time for words, it is the time for deeds. That is why they will not count on our support for this initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Botella. At the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Palmer Tous whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u61	Yes, we accept the Forum, and thanking the Citizens' proposal, we will reject it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u62	Thank you very much. We took note of it. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON IMPULSAR AND FINANCING THE SYSTEM FOR AUTONOMY AND ATTENTION TO DEPENDENCE. [[File number 162/000606]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u63	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to promote and finance the Autonomy and Unit Care System. Mrs Ramon Utrabo has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. In December 2006, there was a very important advance in social protection that gave hundreds of families a reason for hope. We made Spain a better country for citizenship, more dignified and more human. The so-called Dependency Act came to recognize the right of persons who cannot use themselves to be served by the public authorities, a universal right for the whole population and with public guarantee. The Autonomy and Unit Care System was developed as envisaged in its implementation schedule until the end of 2011. In December of that year he became president of the government the same person as just a few days before, in an interview given to the newspaper El País had said: Dependency is not viable, you have to do what you can. Mr Rajoy, on this occasion, was sincere and consistent. A week after his arrival in power, the People's Party Government passed Royal Decree-Law 20/2011 of 30 December, which paralysed the implementation of the implementation schedule of the Dependency Act, preventing nearly 400,000 people with moderate dependency from accessing a benefit or service. Dependent people and their families joined this strong blow without knowing that just six months later the system was going to suffer the second attack. Another Royal Decree-Law, on 20/2012, of 13 July, introduced numerous amendments to the Dependency Act, including reducing the minimum level of protection, cutting the economic benefit for care in the family environment, eliminating social security contributions for non-professional caregivers, revising the timetable, introducing a system of incompatibility of benefits and, if this were not enough, adding the adoption of new criteria that led to a significant increase in co-payment for users of the system. This emptied content of the law reflected, as it could not otherwise be, in the State General Budgets for 2012, in which the Government reduced the minimum level. In addition, it eliminated the item for the agreed level of EUR 283 million, something that has happened again year after year, budget after budget drawn up by the Government of the People's Party. During all these years, political forces and social organizations have been complaining that the Government's abandonment of people in situations of dependency is one of the most evident manifestations of its lack of social sensitivity, lack of commitment to citizenship and the dismantling of the welfare State. In December 2016, coinciding with the tenth anniversary of the adoption of this law, all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the People's Party, signed in this Congress of Deputies a State Pact for the System of Autonomy and Care to the Unit, together with the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. A year later, in December 2017, the signatories met again to follow up on the pact; a year later we were able to verify first hand that none of their commitments had been fulfilled. On this occasion we reiterate our commitment and joined the Union of the Navarro People Pact and the State Coordinator of Platforms in Defense of the Unit Law. Since the Government does not know or, worse and more regrettable, does not want to know about this cry, we have decided to bring it to the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. This GNP, which we are discussing today, captures exactly the content of the State Pact for the Unit's Autonomy and Care System. Many of the groups that signed this pact would probably have wanted to go further, but we wanted to stick to what already exists as a broad and majority agreement within this House. We call on the Group of the European People's Party to join the pact, not to remain alone, because the situation is extremely serious. With the calendar fully implemented since July 2015, there are more than 300,000 people on the waiting list in our country, i.e. with recognized rights but who are not receiving the services and services of the system. Every day more than 100 people die on average without receiving the benefits or services to which they are entitled. More than 180,000 caregivers, almost all women, were discharged and paid social security contributions before the People's Party Government eliminated their rights. Currently there are only 8292 caregivers - I speak in female because, I insist, the majority are women - who are discharged, and they are paid the contribution. The only way of financing the system of care for dependency by the State, following the abolition of the agreed level, is the minimum level of protection which represents less than 20% of the cost, when they know that they should be at 50%. The autonomous communities are already financing more than 80%. In view of this scenario, we have an absolutely inadequate draft State General Budgets, which does not recover the agreed level of funding nor does it include the social security contributions of caregivers. The vote of the Group of the European People's Party is not decisive for this GNP to be approved, yet I would like to go to your bench to ask for a minimum of sensitivity. They can't stand up to this reality, nor can they give us the usual excuses. Do not deny here the existence of cuts that are in these General Budgets of the State and also in the previous ones and those that you claim in Europe. Don't tell us about the inheritances received, they have to take responsibility for their management. They have been in power for more than six years and it is their decisions and only their decisions, based mainly on their ideology, that have thrown the system of dependence on the situation in which it is currently located. Today they have an opportunity to begin to compensate for all the damage they have caused. Don't lose it, they have hundreds of thousands of people pending their decision. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramon. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position on this occasion, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet, is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. In dependence, as in almost everything, there are contrasting models. In this case, the model of the People's Party and the model of the Botanic Government. The model of the People's Party implies a halt to the implementation timetable, the elimination of budget items, a reduction in the contribution of the State, general cuts, the elimination of social security for caregivers, incompatibility in benefits and co-payments. The Botànic Government model involves the elimination of co-payments, the reduction of waiting lists, the increase in staff valuation of dependents, investment in municipal social services and the contribution of more than 70% of the total cost of dependency, providing for the contribution of the State. We have tabled an amendment to try to alleviate this because the under-financing we suffer in the Valencia Country in a general way also affects dependence. It is an underfunding that drowns us and drowns the dependents, and we cannot reach all because the Government does not assume its responsibility in this regard. You know why? Because while you govern for the banks, in Compromís we rescue people. When it governs the People's Party with the support of Citizens, there is no dependency, there is no pension, there is no macho violence, but there is for tanks, for banks and for Florentino Pérez, and from here I want to tell Citizens that dependency also bears a woman's face. So much so that we talk about feminism in other places, in dependence three out of four dependents are women, the caregivers are women. So that both last year and this year we are supporting general State budgets that cut in dependence is directly attacking equality. So let's leave the tanks, the banks and Florentino Pérez, and start investing in rescuing people, which is what really matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we will vote in favour of this initiative, of this non-legislative proposal proposed by the Socialist Group and defended by Mrs Ramon for a number of reasons. The first, because it is no coincidence that we voted in favour of an initiative by the Socialist Group when for 23 years practically uninterrupted of the Government of Navarre, with UPN at the head, we have agreed on social policies with the Socialist Group in Navarre. We also voted in favour because the essence of the founding act of the Navarro People's Union is to understand the policy, in addition, to care for persons with disabilities, unprotected minors, the elderly, and especially, of course, dependent persons regardless of their degree of dependence. We are also in favour of recovering social security contributions from caregivers and families who care for these people with any degree of dependence. On the issue of funding, I would like to make an indication that there will be no misunderstanding. Of course, you, as proposed in the text of the non-law proposal, refer to the framework of the scope of financing of the autonomous communities within the Lofca, the Organic Law on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities, and I must say, Mrs Ramon, that, as you well know, the Foral Community of Navarre has its own powers within its self-government and is not governed by that organic law but through the economic and financial relationship of the State with Navarre through the economic agreement. Therefore, if that is the case, as this pact is also understood, we will logically also be in favour. We are also concerned about the 44 million euros that, as denounced by the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services of Spain, were provided in the general budgets and have not been invested in the autonomous communities. That is why we put a few written questions to the central government and, depending on the answer - they are still in time to answer - we will call for the urgent appearance of the Minister of Health, Social Affairs and Equality. I'm done. We absolutely agree, Mrs Ramón, to reach a great pact that re-founds the philosophy that dependence had in 2006 because, I insist, the Navarro People's Union is always in favour of the most vulnerable people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u70	[[Start your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] We voted not in your day to the current Law of Dependency and we did it mainly for two reasons - surely many of you will remember the debate between Carles Campuzano and Zapatero -: The first, because it fully charged the autonomic competences and, the second, because it did not guarantee their financing. And Carles warned them, and Carles wanted to be wrong, but he wasn't wrong. So the problem is not just the People's Party and its inefficiency, its lack of commitment, its little shame and its little word, the problem was also that this law was born - despite the warnings - with a big flaw: no one knew how it would be financed. Other countries have similar laws, but none of them have committed the fear of adopting them without closing their funding. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is Spain, the country in which photography matters more than efficiency and efficiency. A country that has been ruled by irresponsible people for too long. The People's Party fails to comply with the law, decisions and agreements. But the PSOE is equally responsible for a law that no one knows how to finance. I would ask you to tell us what the actions of the Government are going to be, but I will not believe anything you can say. So what I'm going to demand today, and we're going to demand every day, is the release of political prisoners. And I don't care if you call me a thug, I've already given up your stupidity. [[rumors]] What I'm going to ask you to do is stop hurting and stop being ridiculous. And despite everything they're doing to us, whenever they're willing to do and talk about politics, they're gonna find us. Thank you. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Marcello Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u72	Thank you, President. One more evening we are discussing something that our Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea considers to be of vital importance, as is the attention to people in a situation of dependence, an issue which does not seem to be of such importance to the People's Parliamentary Group since, once again, in its General State Budgets they leave this right unfunded, as we can see in the heading for that purpose. We continue to say that this is an insufficient item, with that funding not even those currently on the waiting list could be met, and that is also what we say to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. You, in the old pact you made the previous year, proposed that you would give 100 million euros of funding to the unit, of which at the end of the year we saw that you had left without investing 44 million euros, knowing that more than 300 000 people are on the waiting list and 120 000 are severely dependent. You, ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party, knowing the data on the waiting list; knowing that EUR 44 million could be invested; knowing that more than a hundred thousand jobs could have been created, left this funding in your coffers. And we still don't know what the reasons are. I am sorry to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that it seems that since you have ruled you are pursuing a maximum, that it is leaving dependence and attention to people in a situation of dependence, relegating them to existentialism and charity, as they also do to social services. Because despite the fact that GDP has reached pre-crisis levels, expenditure and investment do not count on the same fate, they continue to use the same scissors and it seems that when it comes to dependency you go and sharpen them. [[Applauds]] They still do not invest the cuts they made in 2012 - thanks to their great decree - to the Dependency Act. They continue to leave dependent persons unprotected. They continue to insult all the professionals involved in this sector. They continue to condemn the precariousness of care. They continue to breach the financing pact between autonomous communities and the state - you, the government, only spare your investment and do not even reach 18% of it -. They continue to declare the incompatibility of services. They continue to increase the co-payment or rest of users. They continue to eliminate the social security of caregivers in the family environment. In short, they continue to fail to comply with a state law that results, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in this country, in Spain, every fifteen minutes - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, every fifteen minutes - a person in a situation of dependence dies waiting for the resources and services that do not arrive for their damn cuts. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent that we put an end to its disastrous, mediocre and inhumane management and that we face once and for all the reorganization of the care model, because the lives of hundreds of thousands of people are at stake, but also the lives of hundreds of thousands of women who we continue to be the ones who take on the task of care; more than 85% of the task of care is still carried out by the hands and souls of women. In order to ensure that resources and services arrive on time, we in this House already propose that since a person requests a service and a remedy, ultimately since he requests that his rights be guaranteed, he cannot spend more than six months until those resources are applied. We have brought this initiative to this House and you continue to fail once again to comply with what is agreed here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what we are debating here today is to provide the necessary funding for people who suffer from dependency - any of us can suffer it - and it is not a whim of our parliamentary group, of the parliamentary group that proposes the initiative to us, it is a clear demand of social movements, of associations and, ultimately, of those who, for many years, have been fighting for dignity on the streets for whom he cares and for whom he is in a situation of dependence. Because, Madam Minister absent, wherever she is, the lack of funding for dependence is a genuine criminal policy that not only attacks people in a situation of dependency but also attacks a country that calls itself democratic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcello. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u74	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This non-legislative proposal seeks to fully reiterate the content of the so-called State Pact by the Unit, which was promoted in December 2016 by the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, and was signed in the Congress of Deputies by all political parties, as the initiative points out, except the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. However, my group's lack of support for the agreement was clearly quite different from that of the party supporting the Government. This non-legislative proposal seeks to urge the Government to ensure compliance with the Dependency Act by providing all persons who have already been assessed as dependent - i.e. those with a recognized right - with adequate services and services, noting further that the level of funding must be increased to the level corresponding to the commitments made in their day and before their freeze in 2012, because basically this proposal to what it is referring to is not so much to boost the system but to promote the guarantee of the system through its adequate funding. It therefore logically seeks to reverse the situation of a lack of funding for these services, which is currently financed by the State and by 80 per cent by the Autonomous Communities, despite the fact that article 43 of Law 39/2006 specifies a certain degree of commitment which has so far been breached by the Government of the State despite the fact that it had been required to do so, and it does so through a concrete statement that the contribution of the Autonomous Community will be for each year at least equal to that of the General Administration of the State, i.e. at least 50 per cent of the expenditure of the system of dependency at the three levels referred to in Article 7 of the same Law. In addition, the actions proposed by the NLP in order to achieve its objective are: one, to reverse the cuts produced by Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 and subsequent budget laws; to promote a pact to end waiting lists, the so-called dependency limbo, which currently affects one in four people in dependency status, which is more than 300,000; to negotiate within the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council a new model of financing in the Lofca according to the actual cost of services and services; to commit that any amendment to the Dependency Act be discussed in Congress, and to ensure the transparency of the dependency information system. Of course, our intention is not to oppose this initiative, this proposal, but it is worth noting that there is a certain distance that we need to specify. He has done so before me, Mr Alli, because he has pointed out the issue that we were really concerned about at the time and that we are still concerned about now, in addition to others. The proponents of that state pact point out that they intend to obtain adequate funding under the terms of the law to guarantee the services of dependence that the autonomous communities are forced to bear, and they do so, in addition logically, through the Lofca financing system. However - and I come back a little back - our discrepancy at that time occurred, first, because there was an obvious competition dispute, since we understood that Law 39/2006 already introduced an intolerable interference in the competences assumed by the autonomous community on the basis of its own status of autonomy, which we reiterate despite the fact that there has been some ruling of the Constitutional Court that validated it in another sense, but also and above all because the system of financing itself of those autonomous communities of foral regime, the case of Navarre and the case of the Deputies of Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia and Álava, whose mode of financing is fixed by the Joint Economic Concert Commission held on 2 May 2017, in which it states that the participation of the Basque Country in the budgetary allocations for the financing of the minimum level of protection of the System for autonomy and attention to dependence will be determined by the implementation of the third agreement of the Economic Agreement of 2007. In view of this agreement, budget cuts affect us too, they directly affect financing from this functional area within the Basque Autonomous Community, although their compensation is produced through the concert system. This does not, of course, mean that we are going to hinder or oppose the intention to improve the financing of the rest of the system. We assume ours and we will discount it through the concert system, but it is logical that the rest also intends to meet their obligations in addition to according to the forecast contained in Law 39/2006. Therefore, Your Honor, we will support this non-legislative proposal, but with the warning that we would have liked to have referred to the specific systems of dependency financing that exist in the Basque territories and in Navarre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u76	Deputies, deputies, good late, president. A new proposal, a new GNP that will probably go ahead, one more. There is also one certainty: we know that the Government will not apply it. I remember some verses of Neruda, dedicated to the proposer: 'I don't come here to solve anything. / I came here to sing / and for you to sing with me. ' A legislative power subordinate to the executive. Let's talk, let's sing, but let's act, too. And this difference between cause and effect is more humiliating if we refer to issues such as the one proposed by this GNP. Eleven years of development of this law have passed, 3% of the Spanish population, a total of 1,264,351 citizens have been dictated as dependent, but another 120,213 are pending, as of 31 December 2017, to be assessed. The complexity of this state development becomes a problem when it is up to the autonomous communities to apply it exclusively in terms of social services. Because already in 2013 these actions had to be modified and nothing has been done, on the contrary, delays in the implementation and financial drowning, especially since 2012. During 2017 38,000 people died, a terrible figure. More than 100 dependants die every day without receiving benefits or services. One proposes and the other disposes. It is well enough of the myth of the availability of non-finalist funds that reach the autonomous communities! Those who have governed an autonomous community know that payrolls, agreements, a multiplicity of multi-annual obligations are to be paid, leaving a minimum margin, sometimes very small, for funding forecasts even for existing programmes such as this one we are talking about. It is good enough to reduce the funding of the autonomous communities! Since July 2012, it has been estimated that the State has stopped paying the Autonomous Communities. Of those dusts, these muds. We share in essence what the Commission of Analysis of the situation of the unit approved in October 2017, but what happens? The current proposal for general state budgets has nothing to do with these proposals. We will vote again, we will win again and once again we will have to wait because the Government and those who give it the support, active or passive, have allowed and continue to allow this to happen. By the way, I'll make a confession in the end. There's no need for any court to ask. I have never used - and I have participated in general strikes, in all - violence, nor will I ever, ever use it, and that is why I am a member of the Defence Committee of the Republic because I am non-violent. [[Applauds]] Tamara Carrasco, you're not alone, you're at the cost, and politics needs politics and solving the issues is not to complicate them. That's what we're on and we're on. Watch the Republic! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We see opportune the non-legislative proposal that brings us this afternoon to debate by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and we share the philosophy, since in its proposive part it fully reflects the state pact for the System for autonomy and attention to dependence that we signed all groups, with the exception of the People's Party, on December 14, 2016. Here we see the signature of my partner, Marta Martín, who signed it in her day. It urges the Government to ensure compliance with Act No. 39/2006 of 14 December 2006 on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for dependents, providing all persons assessed as dependents with adequate services and benefits. In the diagnosis of the situation of dependence we all or almost all agree, and later I will read part of the Journal of Sessions textually. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will all be dependent on one degree or another and that is why it is a crucial issue that we must tackle immediately and in the near future. As for the analysis of the diagnosis of the situation - it has been stated by previous participants -, by the end of 2017 3% of the population was dependent; more than 1,200 000 people in a situation of recognized dependence and another 120 000 outstanding. Mrs. Sorlí, Citizens are aware that this has a woman's face. We know that 65 per cent are women and that over 70 per cent of people in dependency are over 65 years old. At present, 24.51 per cent of dependents do not receive any benefits or services from the Dependency Care System, although they are fully entitled. This affects more than 300,000 people and their families. 38.81 per cent of the careless, more than 120,000, are dependent on grade 3 or 2, i.e. have extensive and sometimes continuous support needs. It has also been said that during 2017 38 000 people died, more than one hundred per day or two while this debate lasts. The accumulated cuts amount to more than 4.6 billion and the decrease in funding to the autonomous communities, in reducing the minimum level and abolishing the agreed level, is a breach of the arks of the autonomous communities of more than 27 billion. As for the five points that we signed in the pact, they are all important, but I will focus on the first, because there is no discussion about the others because we agree. We are aware that the Dependency Care System has suffered from under-financing since its inception. This system, as laid down in its own rule - as has already been said here - is required by law to co-finance itself at 50%. The problem comes when the autonomous communities are obliged to subscribe 8 out of 10 euros. I'll give you an example. Since 2012 in my autonomous community, Andalusia, the central government has stopped investing more than 500 million euros in this matter, which is known to bring about the economic and social benefits that this would bring. Another embarrassing situation is when data are given in this House and, as it were, members with government responsibilities hold positions that are beyond the truth. I will read a transcript of the Journal of Sessions concerning the appearance of Mr. Garcés, Secretary of State. I open quotes and quote literally: 'In relation to dependency..., I continue to listen to a fallacy in these Courts, which is that the central government only contributes between 15 and 20% of the resources of the dependency system. ...I find it hard to think that you think the Court of Auditors is lying. ... The State contributes half of the resources to the dependency system, and has said so in these words. ... said by the Court of Auditors, I insist, Court of Auditors...". [[the]] The problem is that when the PSOE has been in the government, it has passed as with pensions. I do not know whether their shears are as large as those of the People's Party, but it is clear that, because of their mismanagement, situations like this occur, as demonstrated in this report by the observatory, to which previous participants have also referred. On page 38, the data clearly show - you don't need to be given any master's degree - at the time of the People's Party government the ratio between the contribution of the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities, but it is that at the time of the Socialist Party -2009, 2010 and 2011 - that ratio and that annual decrease was higher than that of the People's Party, with which the monopoly of cruelty with the system of dependence is not an exclusive of the People's Party. [[shows a graph]] [[Applauds]] We must remember that in the IX Legislature the system for autonomy and care for dependence had €1.5 billion and that in 2010 it had 236 million euros less, with which the PSOE was also responsible for these cuts. In the Citizens Investment Agreement it demanded 440 million annually, which finally remained at 100 million, of which the State stopped investing 44. This year, that 100 million has been increased to 46. A total of 236 million euros. We hope to be able to correct part of this deviation in the coming years, but at the moment we are not Government. Finally, I address Mrs. Elvira Ramon from the personal affection I have for her. If you want to be useful to the dependents and their families, it is not enough to bring here a GNP with which we agree - it is true - and to remind us of this state pact. If you want to bring through the General Budgets of the State those 300 million euros that we estimate are needed, negotiate a abstention in the budgets with responsibility and stability, just as your party calls on Citizens in our Autonomous Community. [[Applauds]] Do something useful and don't leave us to the nationalists' arbitrariness. Not only the dependents, but the Spanish as a whole will thank them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Clemente. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is presenting an initiative to boost and finance the system of autonomy and care for dependence. The People's Parliamentary Group welcomes this. Believe me, we share the same goal, which is to work for dependents. We agree, but we regret that with this initiative they are moving forward to put the patch before the wound. They will not believe that with bringing a social cutting initiative to the House this afternoon they will excuse the serious damage that they are going to cause to all the Spaniards with their announcement is no - they already have as a mark - to the General Budgets of the State of 2018, which are the most social budgets in the history of democracy; 7 out of 10 euros are invested in social spending. Between you and us, between the bench of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and my bench, that of the People's Parliamentary Group, there are differences; of course there are differences. While you are at the dictate of a partisan and interested collective referred to in your initiative and which brings together a few social service professionals, we, the People's Party, are at the service of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We are concerned and cared for by today's dependents and tomorrow's dependents, as did yesterday's dependents. Yeah, like yesterday's dependents took care of us. Don't you remember? The Government of the People's Party has paid EUR 1034 million in social security contributions to non-professional carers of dependents that you have no longer been required to pay. [[Applauds]] We corrected the shortcomings of the unit's information system, which had almost EUR 46 million of duplicate files and benefits for deceased dependants. We cut the gap of more than 27 billion euros that exceeded the initial funding forecasts since the Birth of the Dependency Act in 2006. Don't you remember? Then remember. Remember also one thing that you like to remember a lot in this House: cuts. The first cut to the dependency has name and surname: 234 million euros from the Socialist Party to the Spanish dependents. [[Applauds]] But the People's Party also takes care of today's dependents. It is a Government of the People's Party that has preserved and guaranteed the system of dependence, because the People's Party creates dependence. That's why today we cater to 1,186,099 dependents, because we believe in a system of people caring for people. That is why we have increased social security affiliations by 20,000 by providing professional and quality services to our dependents. Today more than half a million people in Spain work at the service of dependency. And we do it the way it plays. We do this with a budget, with the budget with which we meet 50% of the funding required by the law. Gentlemen of Citizens, the Secretary of State says this because it is said by the Court of Auditors, a constitutional and legitimate body. In the budgets of 2017 we increased 100 million euros for dependence, 1358 million to finance the minimum level and 53 billion euros for the autonomous communities. It was an injection of money from the Government of Spain to the autonomous communities to pay for the essential services of our neighbours - education, health and social services - and you voted against. And now, in the 2018 general budgets, we have increased the funding of the unit by 46 million euros, 1401 million euros. That's believing in dependence. And of course we care about tomorrow's dependents. The People's Party has only one objective: to guarantee the welfare society. We are aware of the ageing of our population and the challenges of the future to meet their needs. If there is a party that in this legislature placed on the political agenda the dependence was the People's Party, and President Rajoy reached an agreement at the Conference of Presidents to create a committee of analysis and evaluation of the dependence. That committee has given rise to a report and conclusions that have been ratified by all the autonomous communities, including their own, where the Socialist Party governs, and from here we congratulate ourselves on that last October 1st; moreover, they take up all the future funding bases of that unit, with all the small sum that they take up in their initiative. This parliamentary group is only going to make two final recommendations to them. The first is that this is the legitimate House to agree on the state pacts, here is national sovereignty and here all political forces are represented. The State covenants are the fruit of time and hard work of all political forces, who hear all recommended, legitimated and interested entities in one matter. Do not stand up from the state covenants, as they have done in the state covenant of education, so that they will then have to look for ways to return to them, the ways to sit back in those covenants. If you don't want to make yesterday's mistakes and want to work for today's dependents, you have an appointment, which are the 2018 general budgets, and you vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Ramón Utrabo whether her group accepts any of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u82	Thanking the amendments tabled by the rest of the groups, as I have already transferred them to them and paraphrasing Mr Olòriz, the vast majority of the groups agree with the letter that is written, so we are going to stick to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u83	I understand that they do not accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u84	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u86	We shall now proceed to discuss the following item on the agenda: a motion for urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the role of Spain in resolving the multiple crises affecting Venezuela. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Maura Barandiaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion deals with the multiple crises affecting Venezuela. Let me give you a brief description of these. The first and the cause of all the others is the political and legitimacy crisis of the regime of Nicolás Maduro. There are 237 political prisoners, according to the Venezuelan Criminal Forum. The main leader of the opposition, Leopoldo López, is under house arrest; the opposition also, Enrique Capriles, disabled; the metropolitan mayor, Antonio Ledezma, in exile. Let me pay tribute, dedicate a memory and welcome to this House the members of the Venezuelan opposition present in this debate. [[Applauds]] You will also remember that after the legislative elections in December 2015, which the democratic opposition won by overwhelming majority, the regime decided to convene elections to a Constituent Assembly with the aim of emptying power from the National Assembly. This political crisis is consistent with the existence of a regime in a country that Transparency International qualifies as one of the twenty most corrupt countries in the world, corruption that directly affects senior officials of the Bolivarian Government and the national oil company, PDVSA, subject to investigations in the United States, Andorra and also here in Spain. The corruption of the Bolivarian regime is not only a huge problem for Venezuelans, but also a greater risk. The regime's connivance with drug trafficking has made Venezuela the main distributor of cocaine produced in Colombia to the United States and Europe. Two nephews of Nicolás Maduro have already been convicted for this, and the laundering of money from drug trafficking is also being investigated in our country. The Bolivarian regime is allowing Venezuela to become a risk to the stability of both Latin America and the rest of the world. Nicolás Maduro is being monitored by the Castro regime of Cuba. It is open to FARC factions that did not accept the peace agreement of Colombia or maintain connections with Islamic fundamentalism. A second crisis arising from the political crisis is the economic crisis. Despite being the country with the most oil reserves in the world, the economic policy of the regime has resulted in a hyperinflation of 640% in 2017, in a country where the average wage covers only 3% of the basic needs of Venezuelans. The economic crisis has resulted in a humanitarian crisis that has no precedent in the country. According to Caritas, every day a child who is a victim of malnutrition dies; 4 and a half million Venezuelans eat only once a day; not to mention the lack of medicines or epidemics and diseases that have returned after being reported missing, such as sarna or tuberculosis. However, the Government of Nicolás Maduro refuses to open a humanitarian channel for the international community to provide the assistance that Venezuelans need. As a result, the fourth crisis, Venezuelan exile. Despite the lack of official data, the most conservative estimates estimate that it affects 7% of the total population, about two million Venezuelans. Other figures estimate that there would be four million Venezuelans who have been forced to leave their country in the face of the country's critical situation of poverty and insecurity and, regrettably, this figure continues to grow. Faced with this situation, what role does it have for us, as legitimate representatives of Spanish citizens, to express our solidarity with Venezuela, a country with which we share so much? Well, I think we could do a lot of things. First, this Congress cannot recognize the presidential elections of 20 May convened by an illegitimate body, such as the Constituent Assembly, as well as its results. You can't vote with the rationing chart in your mouth. You can't vote like that. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Spain must lead the international response to the harassment they suffer. We must therefore urge the Government to exercise that leadership within the European Union, in order to agree with our partners on the extension of specific sanctions to senior officials of the Bolivarian regime. These sanctions are not directed at the Venezuelan people; they are not directed at the people of Venezuela, but at those who use public power to enrich themselves by evading their people and reducing them to hardship. No sanctions against the people; sanctions against those responsible. [[Applauds]] Finally, efforts must be made to bring this leadership to the level of the Prosecutor's Office of the International Criminal Court to investigate crimes by senior officials of the Venezuelan Government. And Spain must also take steps to ensure that the UN National Human Rights Commission approves the creation of a fact-finding mission to respond to violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Venezuela. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this Congress must put Spain in its place, leading, along with other countries that are already doing so, like Canada and France, the defence of rights and freedoms in Venezuela, and especially alongside our brothers and sisters, alongside Venezuelan citizens. For all this I ask you to support the vote on this motion which will take place on Thursday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Maura. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Xuclá i Costa is speaking first of all, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Maura, allow me first of all to greet the Venezuelan opposition present in the rostrum, a defender of the struggle for the recovery of democracy in Venezuela, an example of how a democratic system can be cancelled through democratic processes. I would like this afternoon's debate to be a debate on Venezuela and international politics and not a debate to summarise in Spanish domestic politics something as worrying as the situation of human rights and democratic standards in Venezuela. Mr Maura, I am in favour in general terms - the Democratic Party is in favour in general terms - of what you have put forward from this rostrum, but I am also in favour of what I will briefly read to you: To carry out directly or indirectly with the Government of Venezuela all the efforts that might be necessary in order to guarantee the democratic conditions of the presidential elections of May 2018, including guarantees to enable full and free participation on an equal footing of all opposition groups who so desire, for which - very important - the immediate release of political prisoners is necessary. This is point 2 of the Socialist Party's amendment, but it is also what the ALDE Parliamentary Group - of which its party and mine are involved - together with the People's Group and the Socialist Group voted in the European Parliament. I believe that point 2 of your initial motion needs to be revised, and that is the meaning of our amendment. There are Spanish negotiators and negotiators to try to ensure that these elections can be convened in better conditions, and this is our contribution to this debate. Let us hope that a compromise will be possible on Thursday. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. A greeting to the people of the eighth Canary Island who are here and who are also following us online and streaming. Venezuela is experiencing a humanitarian, health, social and political tragedy, and that breaks the soul of the Canary Islands. We believe that with regard to the situation in Venezuela there must be unity of democratic forces, unity and firmness in international bodies, but also prudence. Venezuela is a dustbin and we cannot force situations that lead to a civil war to a country that is already having a bad time. We have to work to recover democracy in Venezuela, but also the normalization of the life of one of the richest countries in Latin America, where politicians and leaders took us where they took us, and in the meantime in this country we have to do things that are not being done. First, that the passports that the Spaniards take out, which often have to go out in twenty-four hours, be free for a period of time and do not cost a month's salary to people who go out with what they put on. The other day, he voted negatively in the Senate. Secondly, a legal solution should be sought for Venezuelans who are in this country and who are not renewing their passports, because they can't even take a plane when they win their passport to go from Tenerife to Gran Canaria or to Lanzarote or to the peninsula. They can't make a contract, they can't renew a rental contract or a job or anything. Third thing that this spokesman poses. It is urgent to resolve the issue of non-contributory pensions for Spaniards and renewed pensioners who have been without a pension for two years and who are in a dramatic personal situation. Let us build unity; let us not make political matters to see who comes before; let us build consensus. We do not like the terms on which it has been proposed by Citizens, but we hope that a compromise can be reached between now and Thursday in line with what this Member has said. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to welcome to this house all the Venezuelan political and social leaders who accompany us, thanking them for their commitment and sacrifices and asking them to extend our thanks to all those compatriots who are fighting for democracy in their country. Today we would be content to reach a broad political consensus that joins the international choir of authorized political voices that pressure maturity in its totalitarian and repressive drift against the people of Venezuela, against the people, because it is people, their freedom, their security, their heritage, their lives, their future, what today is being attacked by an eminently incapacitated and sinister government and regime. This initiative also has an internal reading, because some groups who claim to defend freedom, justice, equality and democracy only do so when they are right, not when the facts and reality demand their defence. Your vote against today or Thursday will only show the utilitarian character of the struggle for democracy for some. Beyond that internal reading, I repeat, the main thing is that a large majority of Members of this House today convey to them our solidarity and our desire that as soon as possible their country regains international prestige, political stability and the necessary confidence to be a prosperous and happy country, as is its people, which has every right to be. From here, once again, I would like to express my appreciation and that of my party, the Union of the Navarro People, for the personal and family sacrifice - I am aware - which you all undertake by maintaining your political commitment to the freedom of your people. I wish you all the luck of the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. I rise to this rostrum to announce the meaning of Euskal Herria-Bildu's vote to the initiative that Citizens have presented and that it will be no novelty for them because it will be contrary. It is going to be a negative vote thought and thought, because we believe that the presidential elections of May are elections that comply with the democratic character that every election appointment must have, an appointment that is also presented - and has been forgotten - candidates of the opposition; an appointment in which, in any case, the Venezuelan people must participate and decide, not this House or the external agents who are trying to interfere in the political life of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. We therefore urge all international actors to accept the outcome of these elections, because there have been many elections in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, with mixed results, mostly won by chavismo, and it seems that this is also forgotten; because we are talking about democratic participation, a democratic process, which also requires due and democratic respect for the decision of the citizenry. It may seem exotic for people to try to resolve their problems by voting and by offering a government's dialogue; I say exotic above all because it doesn't spread here, because more things like that of October 1 or applications of 155 seem to want to be exported here. Venezuela must go its way and it is a complex road, it is true, but it must do so without external interference, which instead of contributing to a democratic dialogue seem rather designed to hinder it. We believe that what needs to be pointed out here is respect for the sovereignty of the Venezuelan people as a whole, think as it thinks and expresses itself as it is expressed, and the Bolivarian process. That is, of course, a maxim of Euskal Herria Bildu. It is also true that they have to move forward to unleash the full potential of social and economic policies for the benefit of the entire population, policies and potentials that are being clearly impeded. I end with an issue that has powerfully attracted my attention. I do not know how much Venezuela is used as a smokescreen, because we could talk about Guatemala, Honduras or Colombia, where human rights are systematically violated by governments that you applaud resolutely. [[Applauds]] They talk about narcoregimen, and we find scandalous photos and even confessional drug traffickers who say they have financed political parties from here, from this state; they talk about corruption and democratic freedoms here, which it seems we are left with to give lessons. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to send a very affectionate greeting to the representatives of the opposition of Venezuela. You cannot imagine how often the name of your country is evoked in this room, unfortunately not always to talk about it. I hope that after many extemporaneous allusions to Venezuela we will finally be able to talk about Venezuela and what concerns Venezuelans. I hope that we will do so with the common awareness of the terrible situation in which he is living; a socio-economic situation that has been evoked by Mr Maura; a situation of involution of his democracy, of deterioration of human rights, of extreme polarization of political forces, of international isolation, with some notable exceptions, and of political blockade that leads to what I might consider a sort of perfect storm on a society that continues to demonstrate - they must proudly display - a huge proximity and a huge democratic culture, which, in that situation, I think is to highlight. I hope that this debate will serve to get Venezuela out of the Spanish domestic agenda and to get it on the international agenda, which is where it should be; that these bold invocations that pass from one side of this Chamber to another will end, since by instrumentalizing the situation of your country for internal issues, they do it a little in favour of it. We have tabled an amendment - as Mr Xuclà announced before I did - to the Citizens' text, but we have a common conviction about the gravity of the situation, as Mr Maura has said. The question is what we can do, to what extent we can help alleviate that situation. Of course, it is not enough to point out to those responsible, although I am going to do it next. I think we need to get into the situation of wondering if what we are proposing is helping to overcome the blocking situation. The crisis and the situation in the country had the greatest responsibility in his Government. The socio-economic situation reveals the failure of the Chavista model. There is neither full freedom nor sufficient redistribution, and without freedom nor redistribution I find it difficult for anyone to qualify as socialist. However, as I said, it is not enough to point out responsibilities; we must try to help Venezuelans without replacing them in their sovereign decisions, from scrupulous respect. I do not say respect to the Government, I say respect to the opposition, to which it is going to participate and to which it is not going to participate, I respect the citizens who are fleeing from their country crossing the border with Colombia or coming to Spain, I respect those who stay and spend all day in a queue trying to have the means to survive. The only way we can be useful is from a position of respect, and our formula of being useful is to denounce how much there is to denounce, but also trying not to contribute to the blockade of the situation, to a greater polarization and to a greater rift of the country. That is why we again appeal to dialogue, which is now so unfashionable when it is said that dialogue only helps the regime. But what's the other way out? Is anyone thinking of a way out that doesn't go through dialogue? Is anyone thinking of a de facto change of government? I hope that from the international community we never have the temptation to get into that wasper. Moreover, as has been said, presidential women cannot be considered legitimate if they go to them with this legal framework and with this political framework. Already in its call by the Constituent Assembly it aroused a widespread and very justified indignation; that spurious constituent assembly which was created simply to silence the only legitimate Parliament of Venezuela, which is its National Assembly, which had to resist the siege by land, sea, air and courts. The elections cannot be held in any way with political prisoners and with the lack of guarantees provided by the current legal and political framework - I repeat -. So it's impossible to legitimize it. That is why my group presents a formula, which has been put forward by Mr Xuclà, to refer to the elections, a formula that we adopt socialists, people and liberals in the European Parliament and which focuses on the phrase that has already been repeated to guarantee the democratic conditions of the presidential elections, to enable full and free participation on an equal footing of all the formations that wish to do so and the immediate release of political prisoners. That is, we believe modestly in the Socialist Group, our way of denouncing what needs to be denounced, but also of helping not to maintain the blockade and not to maintain a freezing situation that does not bode well for anything new. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment is to underline the gravity of the situation, the crises that Mr Maura is talking about, to point out the obvious responsibilities of the Government, to demand the release of political prisoners, to radically change the framework of the elections so that they can at least be legitimized in the future and to make a new call to dialogue, without which no way out seems reassuring or forward-looking. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Amor. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u99	President, thank you very much. The People's Group, my party, my Government will never tire of calling for the return of democracy to Venezuela, the return of human rights, the return of freedom and prosperity, so that the opponents, present today in this Chamber and those whom I greet with my hand in the heart, will return to their country to give Venezuela the best of themselves, something that prevents the tyrant Maduro with his fraudulent elections that we do not recognize. [[Applauds]] The defense of freedom in our party is our essence. We have not had to borrow it from anyone, we have defended it as a political family of the centreright around the world to get the fall of the Berlin wall, that so long the neo-Marxists dressed in new populist clothing, and the one that have defended, with a high tribute of blood, my party companions in the Basque Country and in Navarre. It is defended by every man and woman of the People's Party from the Canary Islands, with this natural solidarity with the Venezuelans, to the Abulans, who defend freedom also outside the wall, proposing consensus and agreement since the times of Adolfo Suárez. The struggle for freedom, and this is something that amazes both the independenceists and the populists, does not admit plotting. As long as there is only one prisoner of conscience, as long as there is a tyrant, no Democrat can rest. We are all under threat and we all know that the law is the only institution that makes us all equal. Freedom and law enforcement is the only thing that separates democrats from dictators and is a line that sheds light for all and for some it only serves to project their shadows, trapped in their particular Platonic myths from the cave in which they want to silence us all. I will simply put one but how this motion is drafted. The group proposes it to us by presenting a new medal for its leader, and I would like to make few mentions, because I believe that this path of super-exaltation of a leadership has little to do with the silent defense of many human rights defenders in the world. The People's Parliamentary Group has more than sixty initiatives presented in the last ten years. The words of the President of the Venezuelan Assembly, Julio Borges, assuring the leadership of Spain and the People's Party, invalidate any spurious attempt to place a medal, because as long as there is a situation of hunger, lack of democracy or deprivation of human rights we all have to work. Mr. Maura, with all due respect, I also put another one to you, but, because you quoted with disparateness, and there I will leave you, an imaginative Holy Trinity that would understand Trudeau, Macron and Citizens as promoters of all initiatives. It approaches - and I will say it in a light way - a soft drink without bubbles; rather than the Most Holy Trinity, to an orange Trina. And I'll leave it there. Convincing twenty-eight countries in the European Union is not as easy as making decisions in one country, so it is not worth entering into any internal debate on Venezuela. And this, moreover, is evident in a simple fact: the only object of all the criticisms of Maduro and his adlaters is President Mariano Rajoy, who here, on October 22, 2014, received Lilian Tintori, the wife of Leopoldo López. That day the faithful of Venezuela's perception of the world changed and, with it, the commitment to freedom was reaffirmed. Rarely do copies become better than the original. Let us speak honestly of not recognizing the elections and of calling for the release of political prisoners and the humanitarian channel; ordinary things in a democracy and something that must unite us all; state policies that must not be sacrificed for any particular interest. Let us be generous, as are the democrats of Venezuela, who are showing the world how a tyrant is defeated by defending law and democracy, history and his country with honor, sacrifice and greatness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u100	Thank you very much, Mr García Hernández. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor at the time of the position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Poor Venezuela! The poor Venezuela there, in the country itself, because of the political situation to which it has been led, because of the fierce control of the institutions and because of the lack of democracy, because of the social problems, and because of the problems already of a humanitarian nature, to which no one twenty years ago would have assumed that it would have to be faced. But poor Venezuela also here, in this Chamber, used - let's say - for the country's internal politics; used, sometimes, in tone of rally; used in tone of electoral competition of internal political career. The truth is that I have seen resolutions or motions for resolutions on other countries in which Spain has fewer interests that have been more diplomatic. And when I say less interests, I am not referring to economic or social interests, I am also referring to the number of Spanish citizens living in that country, because, if I am not mistaken and the most recent statistics have not changed it, the largest number of Spanish citizens in a country is in Venezuela. Perhaps I understand the need to take a resolution, but not to take it apart from what has already been discussed and decided by the European Parliament. I think that is what gives strength to the democratic position and to try to change things in Venezuela, the unity between different ideologies, and that was achieved in the European Parliament recently. I therefore believe that we should go to that text and that is what we can agree on in a resolution. He used to say: poor Venezuela also internally. When things are presented here unilaterally, there is a risk that a resolution in favour of democracy in Venezuela will not come forward. There is a risk, for how it has been raised - unilaterally and with texts with which the majority of the House may not agree - of losing a vote, and that, of course, is not to do democracy or Venezuela a favour, it is to put it at risk. I would therefore go to that European text. We are already talking here about giving up validity and rejecting the elections, not recognizing the results of the May elections. I believe that everything has its time and that it will probably have to come at a time when this is so, but I find point 2 of the European resolution much more judicious, in which it is said that only elections based on a viable and agreed electoral timetable will be recognized in the context of the national dialogue with all relevant actors and political parties, which will meet fair, fair and transparent conditions of participation, which means that the prohibitions on opposition politicians, that there are no political prisoners, that the National Electoral Council is balanced and impartial and that there are sufficient guarantees, including follow-up by independent international observers. It recalls its readiness to send - this Europe said - an electoral observation mission if all these requirements are met. Put the bandage on us before the wound, knowing there's probably going to be a wound, it's not diplomatic or smart or the same as a Parliament. Finally, because I am running out of time, I want to make a special mention of something I have already said but which I want to stress, which is the urgency of the release of all political prisoners in Venezuela, because that is an absolutely necessary step for the situation to normalize and open up solutions. Therefore - and I conclude - I express here our support for a democratic Venezuela and our rejection of the use of Venezuela for internal discussion in this Chamber. I hope that we can reach agreement on a compromise text before Thursday. The text, as presented by Citizens, is not to our satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maura, you and I, you and we are in the ideological antipodes, but we, on the other hand, respect your ideology, as it could not be otherwise, even though we hate cynicism. We hate political cynicism. How can you claim that the United Nations Human Rights Council treats the situation in Venezuela and instead hide that just three weeks ago, on 23 March, this United Nations agency adopted a resolution against sanctions? [[Rumors.-Sir Cantó García del Moral: Lie, Tardà!]] You insist on torpedoing Venezuelan democracy, endorsing the violent, thus contributing to the deterioration of the living conditions of all Venezuelans apart from their ideology. The Democrats in Venezuela - I say the Democrats, apart from their ideology - call for dialogue and to make it effective, while you, cynically, call not to recognize the presidential elections of the month of May. By the way, a year ago they were screaming at them. These elections have been convened and promoted by the Constituent National Assembly, as established by the Constitution of the Republic of Venezuela, and are attended by eighteen political parties; only three do not want to participate. In addition, both the Government and the opposition have jointly requested the United Nations - they have requested it - to send observers. By the way, I read in the press that even a government minister asked and demanded that this Congress of Deputies send observers. I say that it is ultimately a certain political cynicism that urges more blockade, more violence to perhaps create the conditions for even a coup d'état, which you, in order to make it possible, what you have to do, pretend and try, is bury the culture of dialogue, I say well: blockade and culture of violence. It is true that food is lacking, it is true; it is true that medicine is lacking, it is true; it is true that Venezuelan society is going through a very difficult time, it is true, but why do they not talk about the financial blockade? If I had time, I'd make them a long list. December last year: 2200 tons of paid meat thrown into loss held at Colombia's border; millions of dollars held by foreign banks deposited in those banks from the sale of energy, for example, to Brazil. Or, for example, the Trump Administration's latest decision prohibiting transactions carried out by U.S. citizens, or citizens transiting the U.S.. I am also grateful that this political cynicism gives me the opportunity to talk about corruption and violence. Certainly we can talk about violence: year 2017, one hundred and thirty dead, even people burned alive as a result of vandalism on the streets. I also believe that we must demand and even congratulate the Maduro Government because they have imprisoned officials, police officers who did not respect civil rights. By the way, they're incarcerated there, here you're decorating them. They have decorated those who, on 1 October, beat us to death in Catalonia. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Hala!]] Yeah, yeah. That's why I talked about cynicism. [[Applauds]] So they give me the opportunity to talk about violence. By the way, they also give me the opportunity to talk about corruption. Two former presidents of the state oil company, two former Bolivian ministers, forty-three high-ranking judges, you know why? For corruption. That is, it is worth looking at other societies by seeing how corruption is combated. By the way, the ex-fiscal dismissed also accused of corruption. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what has been said, or culture of dialogue, in order to try to contribute all, apart from our ideology, to helping to solve the problems that Venezuelan society has, or cynicism. We aim at the culture of dialogue, which is why we will vote against this Citizens' initiative. We also want to remember the action and words of Rodriguez Zapatero. We want to defend now all the work carried out by the former President of the Spanish Government; I believe that in this regard it has been an advance in the culture of fostering dialogue in order to resolve the crisis in Venezuela. Yes, we congratulate Rodriguez Zapatero. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u105	He wants the chance that Citizens present this initiative about Venezuela in full hurricane by the Cifuentes scandal, reproducing one of the PP's favorite habits, which is to talk about Venezuela every time they raise their problems with justice. [[Applauds]] Of course, their eagerness to dispute the terrain, opportunism and ambition has again made them stop and have brought us an initiative that is a violation of common sense and the most basic principles of international relations. Citizens today call for this Congress not to recognize the results of the Venezuelan elections that will take place at the end of May. Normally, the international community sends observers to the elections; such observers collect irregularities, if any, in technical reports and conclude that the elections have not been clean, can be denounced and even not recognized. Something like this is happening, for example, in Hungary, here in the European Union, where Viktor Orbán, the xenophobic and anti-Semitic leader, known for persecuting refugee and opposition journalists, has just razed in elections between reports of serious irregularities, without having heard a word so far from the citizens or of, of course, the People's Party, which shares a parliamentary group with Mr Orbán in Brussels. [[Applauds]] The same observation process has been followed in the last 24 elections in Venezuela. In fact, this same Congress sent a delegation to the 2013 elections that endorsed the result in a statement signed by the PP, the PSOE or the PNV, among others, and President Zapatero was as an observer to the 2015 elections, which clearly won the opposition, and has announced that he will do the same in the next month. So the question is, why do citizens want these elections not to be recognized months before they take place? Because in the negotiation process between the government and the opposition, led by Zapatero in Santo Domingo, the Venezuelan opposition ended up deeply divided. A part, led by Julio Borges and Leopoldo López, with the support and who knows if the pressure of the United States, decided at the last minute not to sign the agreement and boycott the elections. Another part, led by Henri Falcon and by parties such as the Advanced Progressive, the Mas or Copei, did sign it and present itself against Maduro. Citizens have decided to support the toughest fraction of the Venezuelan opposition and today calls on the government and this Congress to do the same. The paradox, gentlemen of Citizens, is that you never supported this process of negotiation and dialogue, even though your own Venezuelan partners were taking part in sitting at the table. A year ago, in a control session in this house, Mr Rivera demanded the Government to withdraw its support for Zapatero's mediation, a support that is also not particularly enthusiastic and, indeed, throughout his motion, the words dialogue, mediation, negotiation or agreement do not appear once. [[Applauds]] Citizens, if you do not want elections to take place and you do not want negotiations to take place, dialogue or agreement, what is the solution you propose for Venezuela? The second point in his motion says this: more economic sanctions. But who do they think will pay and are paying the price of these sanctions and the commercial and economic blockade against Venezuela? You are so concerned about the very harsh situation of the Venezuelan people that what you are proposing is to suffocate them even more. And tell me one thing, since we are, why do they like the sanctions for Venezuela but not for Israel, that exemplary democracy, according to Mr Girauta, who has murdered in cold blood thirty people in the last ten days, including a duly accredited journalist; who imprisons children without trial and who, according to the United Nations, has built an apartheid regime? Why in one case yes and in the other not? [[Applauds]] Your hypocrisy in this case is only comparable to your irresponsibility because what you defend in this initiative is barbarity, because without democratic elections, without mediation or dialogue, without proposing anything more than sharpening economic asphyxiation, what your position ultimately supports is a coup d'état in Venezuela, as openly requested by the opposition sectors you support, as requested by the most extremist hawks of the Trump administration, as the military who kidnapped a helicopter and bombarded the High Court of Justice tried to do. I promise you that I have sought some statement from Citizens condemning any of these facts and have not found it. [[Applauds]] The positions you defend are not new, they are the same ones that endorsed the failed coup in Venezuela in 2002, then the coup in Honduras and then the coup in Paraguay. They are the same ones who today endorse the continuing blow in Brazil without you having said anything about it. We say it loud and clear, we say here today to Lula da Silva that his struggle is that of any Democrat in the whole world and that democracy in Brazil is going to take place because the time of the coups d'état in Latin America has run out. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] We say loud and clear that we are proud and grateful for President Zapatero's mediation effort and that any solution to the crisis in Venezuela must be peaceful and go through dialogue, agreement and democracy. It is a pity that Mr Trump, Mr Aznar and Mr Rivera do not think the same. From what I know, with all sincerity and for my country's sake, I tell you that I hope that Spain's foreign policy will never fall into your hands. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Bustinduy. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I ask Mr Maura whether his group accepts any of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u107	Mr President, we are working with other groups to table a compromise amendment for Thursday's vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u108	All right. If necessary, send it to the Bureau to take it into account in the vote. Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO ENSURE THE FINANCIAL BALANCE OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM. [[File number 173/000085]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u109	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group on the measures to be taken to ensure the financial balance of the social security system. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u110	Good afternoon. This motion tabled by the Socialist Group takes on greater importance than the question of the month and a half ago in the light of the General Budgets of the State for 2018 presented to us by the People's and Citizens' Group, in which not a single measure is taken to improve the negative result of the closure of 2017: 18.8 billion euros. On the contrary, they do so with an additional EUR 15 billion, thereby weakening the social security system. We are talking about a deficit of 18.8 billion euros, with a Reserve Fund almost exhausted - in fact, according to these budgets, an additional 3 billion euros - a substantial deviation in the income from contributions of 2550 million euros and, of course, this provision for a new loan to complete the financing of contributory pensions. Gentlemen of the People's Group, the 2018 budgets could have been a perfect instrument to implement the non-legislative proposal adopted in this plenary on 12 September, in which they were given three months to put on the table measures to resolve the financial balance, as well as to guarantee purchasing power. However, after 209 days, whether for leniency, desirousness or simply for this immobilism that we are accustomed to Mariano tancredism, we believe that they are only looking for one thing, and it is to bring the public pension system to a constant deficit that leads irremediably to drastic adoptions of the future by cutting pensions. Indeed, the Lords of Citizens and the PP recognize in these General State Budgets a question, and it is that the 2013 reform has failed. It has failed its IRP and they recognize it so openly that the President said very recently at this headquarters that he would not reconnect pensions with the CPI. However, now, gracefully, as if it were King Sun, decides to increase the minimum by 3% or 5% or, why not, simply to the CPI. Well, it turns out that by a graceful act of King Rajoy, we now have an improvement in minimum pensions, and it has failed because Mr Rajoy does not believe it and Mr Rivera and Mr Montoro neither. We were present at that public auction that took place in the presentation of the State's General Budgets, in the pact between Citizens and the PP, which seemed more like a fish auction than a budget presentation, where Mr. Rivera was betting to raise 2% and the next day Mr. Montoro would amend his plan by 3%. Anyway, we wonder why a 3 and not a 5 or why not the CPI. Precisely, Mr Rivera, on 1 March, said why pensions were not increased at the CPI. He said so in a national medium of communication, so it is more than verified. It is also true that Mr Rivera today says one thing and tomorrow the opposite, but in that case he said with his mouth wide open that why pensions could not go up to the CPI. Of course I do. You hide behind Brussels, when it turns out that Brussels has just congratulated Lithuania for re-indexing pensions to an index that allows you to ensure that purchasing power is maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot leave it to the government to retain purchasing power because, if not, we will not have unworthy pensions. We know that because experts have already announced it to us. In 20 years, pressures can lose from 30 to 40%. I know they'll come now and tell me Zapatero froze the pensions. Yes, Zapatero froze the pensions at an exceptional time, in 2010, but then he was able to reach an agreement on the Pension Reform Act of 2011 with the unions and in the Toledo Pact, which you did not do. [[Applauds]] You, with the 2013 reform, ended the consensus in the Toledo Pact itself. They then despised the Toledo Pact and we see that they despise it again when we see news in the media saying what they say. Now it seems that they want to remove non-contributory pensions from the system so that the deficit can be healed. Of all this Citizens will have to respond at some point, because the truth is that today, with the 2013 reform, it is neither socially nor politically nor economically sustainable. We have already said in this rostrum very recently that in 2035 it could lead to the loss of 750 000 jobs. In other words, economically this reform of 2013 is not going to improve. It is nothing more than a saving and putting on a tray, that is, in the private pension market, EUR 100 billion, which is public pensions. The motion we are debating today seeks to put black on white, what most groups accept but what two groups are opposing, and what the experts have already announced, which is the need for income to enter the financial economic system of Social Security, as well as to increase purchasing power. We are submitting this motion because urgent action is needed. In this budget you can make a new contribution, guarantee purchasing power and that a government can never have in its hands the determination of purchasing power, as you did in 2011. I remind you that you, insistently, in those recommendations demanded that it be stated that a Government could never again have in its hands the recovery of purchasing power, with which you are consistent. By the way, when pensioners read Article 20 of the reform of the IRPF and realize that they are being fooled by the measures they have presented in the pact, watch out for the males. Lords of Citizens, you have not yet spoken about what model of pensions you want. The gentlemen of the People's Party are very clear that they want to reduce pensions, but you are not answering. They are dedicated to extract empty media headlines of content in which they say nothing, beyond criticizing the PSOE, that that is already a done thing. What we ask of you, gentlemen of Citizens, is for you to retract. Do they want to maintain the purchasing power of pensions and, for this, can they be linked to the CPI or not? Do you want the public pension system to be socially, politically and economically sustainable in the short, medium and long term or not? Say it. Stop making media headlines that lead to no constructive debate at all. These budgets are very clear. You are already teaching the patita, we know that, but we want you to get wet in this Chamber, because, so far, you have allowed yourself the luxury of making those headlines that are so good for you and that fill out the various media but that do not lead to any agreement. We ask you that if you really want to rebuild - I am finishing, President - the Toledo Pact on the basis of consensus and agreement, you will manifest and retract at once. Tell them which public pension system they want. The labour market is poor right now. There are analysts who say that it would have to increase by three million jobs to heal the deficit. You know this, but you are putting forward an amendment that says that there is a structural reform of what and say nothing more. [[Rumors]] I'm finishing up. Gentlemen of Citizens, the People's Party has already been portrayed, they want the public pension system to end up in private hands, that is so, but say what you want and be honest with the pensioners. If not, one day, sooner rather than later, someone will make them really portray themselves and it will be citizenship with their vows. Thank you very much, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Del Campo Estaún is speaking first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend, even if Mrs Perea says otherwise, for the umpteenth time, the position of my party, of Citizens, in the face of an initiative of the Socialist Party - the umpteenth initiative of the Socialist Party - in the form of a motion or a GNP. But before I do, let me tell you a real story. I'm lucky to have my grandmother alive. My grandmother is a widow's pensioner and this is her only income. On this Easter holiday, my grandmother, in one of those typical meals that are held on these dates, asked me: My son, I have been told that we are going to raise our widow's pensions. I said, "Yes, Grandma. We are fighting on this, we have agreed that with the Government; it has cost work, but it is not only up to us, it depends on other political parties, the PSOE could be added, but we still do not have its support. And my grandmother said to me, "And how much are we going to raise our pension, my son?" My grandmother has a small pension, and I said to her: This year, about 12 or 14 euros, grandmother, but your pension could rise about 40 euros next year. She said: 40 euros? That's not what my eyes are gonna see. I said, "Your grandson is telling you, Grandma, he's not telling you... She said: Now, now, but you have told me that it is not only up to you, it is also up to the People's Party and the Socialist Party. I said, "I think they'll finally add up. And my grandmother said to me, "If it depends on the People's Party and the Socialist Party, we're not going anywhere. [[Applauds]] I am telling this because it is a real situation and because I think it is the problem that you have. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u113	Wait a minute, Mr. Del Campo. Please, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u114	This is one of the serious problems that you have, which every time fewer people believe in you. Citizens have become accustomed to saying one thing when they are in the opposition and then doing another when they are in the Government, and this is more serious, if any, when we talk about pensions. You have a lot of experience in this, Mrs Perea, but pensions have to be treated as what they are, as a genuine state policy, which is precisely what the 1995 Toledo Pacts are or were about, because we no longer know what they are about. Mr Simancas said in the question to the minister that the pensioners are legitimately concerned, angry and mobilized for two main reasons; first, because their pensions are becoming poorer; and second, because of the collapse of the Social Security accounts, which threaten today's pensions and tomorrow's pensions. And I was asking for respect for the pensioners. That is what we are asking of you now, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party: respect and do not lie to you. Because today's pensions and future pensions are not in check, at least they are not in check if we maintain the reforms that you carried out in the year 2011 - which seems to no longer remember -, raising the retirement age, and if we maintain the reforms that the People's Party made in 2013. It's not that we say it, the main agencies say it. If these reforms are maintained, the social security system is not in check; now, it is true - I give you the reason - that if we maintain those reforms we will have in the medium term a threat of impoverishment of pensions, but that will not be fixed here by you at the stroke of motion and of PNL, because this where it is arranged and achieved is by negotiating and agreeing where it is appropriate, in the Toledo Pact. Tomorrow you have a new opportunity not to blow it up, to try to reach an agreement on recommendation number two for the maintenance of purchasing power, where I ask both the People's Party and you to have broad eyes to try to reach a common agreement. Meanwhile, while the Toledo Pact reaches the corresponding consensus, the following recommendations are drafted and the following mandates are given to the Government, they have another way of showing the respect you ask the pensioners. Do you know what that way is? Voting in a few weeks the General Budgets of the State of 2018. [[Applauds]] Since you have not come down to the arena to negotiate and do not respect pensioners, at least sum up to an agreement, if you do not have to tell the pensioners on the street why you do not add up to 3% - not the CPI - of minimum pensions, 3% of non-contributory pensions of the people who need it most, 2% of widow's pensions - like that of my grandmother, whom I greet - and 6% additional next year, or the 1.5 - here the CPI - of pensions of less than 700 euros or of the rest of pensions up to 18 000, of 6,700,000 pensioners who would see improved pensions also with IRPF rebates, which would put between 30 and 60 euros in each pensioner's pocket; not the CPI, much more. [[applause]] That is why I ask you - and I have already told you so many times - to stop bringing to this House initiatives that are untraveled and to show respect for pensioners by being serious in the Toledo Pact, which is where they have to be serious, supporting the 2018 General Budget Bill next week. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u116	Mr Campo, what you had to say to your grandmother, a widow pensioner, is that for many years now she had to have a 60% regulatory base, and thanks to the budgets that the People's Party and you are going to sign, she will have only 54% of the regulatory base. That's what you had to tell your grandmother widow. [[Applauds]] Yes, Mr. Campo, of course I do. This issue is very serious, and I believe that all the interventions we should have on pensions should be dominated by one word, and that word is sufficiency. That is the pending debate. The pending debate is that we tell Spanish society what a sufficient pension is, and that we also commit ourselves to a serious debate here - not as we have had with Mr Rajoy - about how much we want to commit so that we can have decent pensions in this country. Because, Mr Campo, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens and the People's Party, one cannot be a part-time constitutionalist; a constitutionalist to veto the laws of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos through 135, because they do not want to spend more on pensions; a constitutionalist to support 155; but, yes, a constitutionalist to defend sufficient and revalued pensions as required by articles 50 and 41 of the Spanish Constitution. We do not want part-time constitutionalism. [[Applauds]] Let's take this issue seriously. We have difficulties with the motion tabled by the Socialist Group. Why? Because it doesn't go to the bottom of our country's problem. Let us say that the Socialist Group does what it does in this motion is to focus on the reason for the alarm that pensioners and pensioners have in our country; it focuses on the financial balance, when the focus, Mrs Perea, we believe that we are talking precisely about what we have said, the sufficiency of pensions in our country. We say this for a certain reality, and it is that the whole initiative is full of financial rebalancing. You know that if we do not accept the first of the amendments we will not support this motion for a reason, because the financial balance can be achieved, as you, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, with the last two pension counter-reforms by cutting public expenditure on pensions, or it can be achieved, as our group defends, by advancing in new sources of funding through revenue generation. This is our amendment and our proposal. If you want to move forward with the rebalancing of the financial system through the increase in income, go ahead; if you are going to do so and it is fully open in your proposal through the reduction of public pension expenditure, we say to you that no. On the other hand, the whole initiative is full of two main factors. Firstly, by the so-called separation of sources, and we understand the separation of sources from the accounting point of view, not as an organizational principle, as has been done these years here. Secondly, all that has to do with contribution; contribution to determine the scope of pension protection, but not with regard to the funding of the sources of the system. We have tabled six amendments that emphasize a new model that generates income for our social security system; a new system that takes into account or has a frontispiece where social security in our country is not a burden. You're understanding it as a burden. For us, Social Security and its public pension system is an asset, a fundamental right. We have an obligation to take care of him, to pamper him and to seek the income necessary for our people to have decent pensions. What do we tell him? Obviously, we agree with the rationalization of the system's costs. Let us now agree to get almost EUR 4 billion that relates to the management costs charged to the system, let us agree on the causes that have brought us here, which are the two labour reforms that we have had, that of the Socialist Party and that of the People's Party. The last, that of the People's Party, has impoverished the workers. [[Applauds]] If we have shitty wages, we have shitty contributions, so let's change the model we have in our country once and for all and, above all, generate income. What is in Spain is what the workers call inverse solidarity: they bring more to the system those who have less. Let us reject the maximum bases of contribution - we can reach almost EUR 8 billion through this resource -, let us remove the flat rates - on which most of their parties agree -, let us remove that active policy based on an indirect subsidy to employers that involves lowering social contributions, which are the bonuses and reductions to the employment contract and which are - we do not say this; the Bank of Spain says - a dead weight. Mrs Perea, we defend what is fair, let us change Article 109 of the General Law on Social Security and once and for all let us tell our pensioners and our pensioners that we want decent pensions paid with the budget. The truth, Mrs Perea, is that we do not want her initiative to call for the removal of the sustainability factor. In our country there are two sustainability factors, which you did in the 2011 reform, extending the retirement age to sixty-seven years, and the sustainability factor that comes into force on January 1, 2019 and bears the name of the People's Party. On the 16th on the streets to defend public pensions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u117	Mr Alli Martínez has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to recall in this House that the first political force that last February 18 in oral question to the President, Don Mariano Rajoy, demanded and asked that the pensioners not lose purchasing power was my party, Union of the Navarro People. Therefore, I have to tell the Socialist Group that we are conceptually in favour of your motion - I would miss more! -, now, today, to the spokesman of the Socialist Group I have not heard a single concrete initiative for reducing expenditure or increasing revenue, so I have to stick to the question that precedes this motion. Therefore, and following Mr Simancas's inquiry, I will begin with the good, and I will explain myself. [[The lady]] With regard to the reduction in expenditure, yes, we agree to free from administrative expenditure the social security system, and we are also in favour of segregating from the budgets all those reductions in social contributions, and therefore also the flat rate. However, if we stick to the concrete operational initiatives proposed by the Socialist Group in its question, neither are we in favour of repealing labour reform - we do not think that this will increase the income of the social security system - nor are we in favour of a tax on banking, nor are we in favour of increasing social security contributions, because that would discourage recruitment by employers and self-employed people. Within the many measures that must be taken - then I will say in what context they should be taken, and not, in our view, in a motion - I would like to say that I encourage the Socialist Group to agree also to the proposal made by the Navarro People's Union in the question of 18 February to allocate the increase in tax collection above the budgeted directly to the pension fund. I insist that this is one of many measures. In conclusion, Mr President, what I ask of all your ladies and gentlemen is to achieve consensus as was achieved in 1995, from the different ideologies, for the sake of current pensions and for the sake of future pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't talk about my grandmother because I don't have her, but when they say that pensions are in the hands of the People's Party and Citizens, my mother-in-law starts shaking. I don't know, the story looks different from elsewhere. Eurostat data for the same week. Business profits in Spain account for 43% of gross value added, well above the European average; business profits go back to the highest and, on the other hand, wage costs in Spain are among the lowest in Europe - 30% of the European Union average - and this has consequences. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u121	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u122	Benefits for businesses, low wages, more precariousness, low contributions. And if there are low contributions, of course, there are problems in balancing social security and in balancing pensions. This morning there was a humble table at the door of Congress, it was the table for the armoring of pensions in the Constitution, and a citizen has come to sign and said: You, the deputies, live in another world, do not worry about the real problems of the citizens. I believe that the People's Party, in its six years in government, has taken little action to solve the problem of pensions, beyond emptying the pension box. This same year they'll touch her again. It has taken some other step, such as giving over 20 billion in tax privileges to large companies. We will vote in favour of the proposal. We like the proposals that Podemos has made, we think very reasonable because we have to ensure that pensions are covered, we have to ensure - or we have to guarantee - that pensions are guaranteed; just as it happened with the payment of the debt to the banks - I finish - we have to guarantee the payment of pensions, the revaluation of pensions, that pensions are public and guaranteed by the Constitution. And above all, that the payment of all this did not fall solely on the shoulders of the workers. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u123	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Campuzano i Canades spoke.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Perea, today the CIS points out that the concerns of pensioners and citizens as a whole regarding the future of pensions have doubled. And this CIS data, in our view, at least expresses several things. One, concern for pensioners that the system cannot guarantee, as it is formulated today, the purchasing power of pensioners. Concern for pensioners that the system is in deficit. Concern by pensioners that this deficit creates uncertainty about the future of pensions. And concern for pensioners that political groups are unable to reach political agreements to address these issues: the maintenance of purchasing power, the financial balance of the system and the message of tranquillity towards the future. Precisely the political virtue that the Toledo Pact had in 1995 was that, to give tranquillity to pensioners about what is happening today and what will happen in the future. This tranquillity requires two types of policies, a policy aimed at ensuring the adequacy and dignity of pensions - which requires us to agree within the framework of the Toledo Pact on a new mechanism to guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners - but also requires reforms to make the system sustainable, beyond changes in productivity and changes in the labour market. In this sense, I cannot share any of the considerations made by the spokesman for the United Group We can because the most reactionary thing about pensions today is not to understand that the system needs reforms. That is also one of the virtues of the Toledo Pact. Mrs Perea, I share the content of your motion, it is very orthodox in terms of the tradition of the Toledo Pact. I shall therefore vote in favour of it, but we all have a pending vote in the Committee on the Toledo Pact to regain the consensus that I am sure that this will give the pensioners a sense of tranquillity, which is very clear that they do not have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u126	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, Madam President. I would like to recall that the reason for this question is to urge the Government to take measures to ensure the financial balance of the social security system and also to correct the existing deficit. The truth is that - and I have also passed it on to the rapporteur, Mrs Perea - I cannot say anything else that I share much of the diagnosis that was made at the time and also much of the solutions that are mentioned in the motion that is before us today. However, I still find two issues of concern to which Mr Campuzano has just referred, which has preceded me in taking the floor. The debate on pensions cannot depend on whether we talk to a midwife - I do not have a midwife unfortunately - but I do not think that that was the faithful of the balance to tilt the meaning of my political interpretation to one side or another, and much less that it is a group or two, on either side of the ideology, who are going to design the pension system and who are going to entrust our midwives, our children, our brothers and those who are going to happen to us in the parliamentary sphere and in the citizen sphere. What is really important in the area of pensions is not so much one measure or another, but the value of the agreement reached where the existence of agreements with regard to the pension system, agreements in the Toledo Pact, has historically been reflected. I have commented that it is difficult for me to disagree with what I agree with but, although it is already reiterated in my speech, I have to tell the Socialist Party that bringing into this House debates that we should have in the Toledo Pact does not resolve anything. Moreover, it should be remembered that this motion is part of a request for assurance or guarantee of financial equilibrium and that these are the issues that we are discussing in the Toledo Pact as well as - to which reference has also been made - the guarantee of the adequacy or guarantee of the purchasing power of pensions, which is to be dealt with tomorrow. We have been dealing with other days, but tomorrow we will be dealing with a specific text. We hope that, beyond the differences set out in this House, we will be able to enter into the will of agreements so that, by giving in to each other, we can obtain what the citizens are waiting for. Because what citizens are waiting for is not so much a measure but the feeling of agreement, the guarantee that this agreement, whatever it is reached, will have sufficient support from the House, will have sufficient support so that what is decided tomorrow cannot be changed. In that regard, I believe that at that time the PP was wrong to take measures that were contrary to the provisions of the Toledo Pact, but I believe that this is a line that they have surely understood for themselves that it is not adequate. We have also heard comments in that regard and we hope that they can be corrected. Of all the issues raised in the motion, as I have told you, I am starting from a good line with most of its positions, and only on one I am going to put to you that it is true that it is a defect in the action of the Government. It is the one concerning the updating of pensions, on which you have also brought initiatives to this House and we have supported them. I do believe that it is necessary for the Government to propose to act in accordance with both the opinion expressed in this House and the opinion it already knows and which has been expressed by the various political groups in the field of the Toledo Pact. That is why, leaving aside the fact that this is not, in my view, and with all due respect, the way to act at a specific time when what must be imposed is the will to agree within the framework of the Toledo Pact, and also to express my agreement with many of its measures, I will have no choice but to abstain because we understand that this debate, with greater relaxation and, possibly also with greater introspection, we must have it, but within the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u127	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u128	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I do not know how many times I have talked about pensions by counting the Employment Commission, the Toledo Pact, the non-law proposals, the Minister's appearances and the President's appearance. Yes, Mrs Perea, we are going to vote on your motion on a few points because we are going to ask for points to be voted on. If we are going to vote for the revaluation of pensions, yes, and also agree on a formula that guarantees at least that pensioners do not lose purchasing power, yes. Also, yes to introduce an inflation deviation clause on the assumption that the CPI is lower than finally achieved, yes. We will vote yes to revenue increases, including additional sources of funding to contributions, yes. But the question is: how many more parliamentary initiatives do you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, need to understand that neither the People's Party government nor citizens are going to raise pensions beyond the pathetic 0.25, apart from minimum pensions? It is going to keep them frozen for another year, it is going to keep them almost frozen, they have been told in the responses to the non-law proposal, in the interpellations and motions, as I said, and in the appearance of President Rajoy a few days ago, as they have been told again in the presentation of the budgets for 2018. This Government is not interested in raising pensions. Do you know where the 2018 budgets have increased further? I'm telling you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u129	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent because there is a murmur with which it is impossible to hear. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u130	Thank you, President. Do you know where budgets have increased further? I tell you, and I assure you, this is a whole metaphor of the drift of the Kingdom of Spain. An increase of 6.5% for the Ministry of the Interior, Police and Civil Guard, preferably 10.7% for the Ministry of Defence and, care and increase of drums: an increase of salary for members of the Constitutional Court, who lately work very and quickly and have to pay for the services provided; an increase of 13% for the President of the Constitutional Court and of 12% for the judges of the Constitutional Court. Quite an indecency. Police, army and Constitutional Court, this is the Kingdom of Spain and while for the majority of pensioners, a simple increase of 0.25 %. This is the reality, I think it's all said. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Mrs Robles, the only motion that pensioners and working classes expect, do you know what it is? The motion of censure. A motion of censure that will put an end to this theater that only it does is to keep one of the most extreme rights in Europe: the People's and Citizens' Party and the People's Party. While they can cheat and cheat on the lonely. But the truth is that the extreme right-wings are still in power and if they don't put the batteries on, you look like you're going to be a few more years. You may be able to wait. But not a lot of pensioners. This April 15th they're going to go out on the streets again. In Catalonia on the 14th because the 15th we have another demonstration for civil rights and freedoms. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Camps Devesa has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you are absolutely certain that I did not intend to start this speech by referring to a Member's grandmother in this House, but I am obliged to do so by drawing on two points which have been made clear, one by the Member himself, that a two-point increase in the calculation of the regulatory base is an increase of 3.8% of the pension; give that joy to your grandmother. If approved, the pension will be increased by 3.8%, not 2%. And another to the spokesman of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can. There is no legal breach, next year the period in which you have to increase to 60% in the calculation of the regulatory basis for the widowhood benefit and I assure you that with a PP government you will have the opportunity to vote for it in this House. Let's see what you're doing! [[Applauds]] Because we will bring that rise in the calculation of the regulatory base in the legal period that establishes the law that you say we have failed. Mrs Perea, I have to tell you that I found a certain change in tone between you today and Mr Simancas on the day of the inquiry. And I have to tell him I appreciate it. Appreciate it. It seemed to me, with the intervention of Mr Simancas, that you were entering into an irresponsible drift in this matter of pensions and today I have to acknowledge that with your intervention you are reopening spaces that we can understand in agreement between all the groups. But you're still putting something away from reality, you know? Because, look, the content of your motion could be shared on many points by my group, there have even been those who have asked for a point vote; we also voted on some point in favour. Some of them because they are already proposals from all of you, you have somewhat misappropriated proposals that you know we have already de facto agreed in the Toledo Pact Commission, in particular all about reductions and bonuses. And there are some points in his motion that the truth, usually, is so general that it is difficult not to share them; although in reality that generality causes them not to serve much. But do you not believe, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that you should stop looking for differences between us with initiatives like this, one behind the other constantly in these plenary sessions, leaving yourself with some grandiose phrases, usually empty of content or simply wrong or simply false and thereby genuinely seeking commitment to compromise within the framework of the Toledo Pact? Why do you want to remain in that reality today even, Mrs Perea, denying the data when they are not in favour of it? They cannot deny more time because today there is more employment than there were five years ago, that this job is more stable and of higher quality than there were five years ago, that more and better pensions are paid than ever before. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group, we pay more than 10 600 000 pensions. In 2011 the monthly pension payroll was 8100 million; and the last one paid this same month exceeds 10 billion. The average pension for all groups has increased since 2011, the retirement pension by 16 per cent. Today the new retirement pensions reach 1500 euros, which means 93% of the average wage in Spain, a pension more than enough. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Simancas said a few weeks ago that the impoverishment of today's pensioners - he thus referred to pensioners in an ardent Parliamentarian of unmatched demagogy -; ladies and gentlemen, as they repeat this enormous falsehood over and over again, it is not true. Today the Spanish pensioners are no poorer than when you were ruling, rather on the contrary, and not because this spokesman, from the OECD to the last report we have seen this past week, I do not know if you have read it from a financial institution, until that report clearly says that the generation of more than sixty-five years is the only one that has increased its income measured per person since 2008 and that the poverty rate of the group has fallen from 17% to 6%. OECD data. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and the only thing that brings you to deny reality is that the diagnosis will be normal and necessarily wrong. Do not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, if we have more and better pensions today it is for two reasons: for avoiding the rescue and because we have been able to turn the situation of our economy around and start growing and creating jobs. How can you say without blushing, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that it is the economic and socio-occupational policies of the People's Party that endanger the sustainability of pensions? Do you believe that destroying 1,700 daily jobs, which was something that happened to you, guarantees more the pension system than creating 1500 daily jobs, which is what the People's Party is doing right now? Ladies and gentlemen, over the past 12 months the system has won 592 081 members; it is the best data, along with last year's data, since 2007 and, of course, that job creation data is the real guarantee of maintaining our pension system. Forget, ladies and gentlemen, to propose, instead of creating jobs and more contributions, increases in the tax burden that would at present only put at risk the level of consumption and the level of investment. You should make it clear - and I conclude, Madam President - that what you propose as a solution to the system's deficit is equivalent to raising all citizens a quarter of their current contribution to the IRPF, including pensioners. Mrs Perea, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - and I finish - in the face of your rise in taxes we propose from the reality of economic growth and job creation, otherwise: to reduce the IRPF for incomes below EUR 18 000; one million pensioners will benefit from it; 5,750,000 pensioners who receive minimum, non-contributory pensions, widowhood or less than EUR 12 000 will see how their pensions improve, if they approve the budgets for next year. Stop blaming the IRP and other issues and return to the path of the Toledo Pact, which is where we all have to be, by providing action-by-measure at each of the meetings. Don't let go of your responsibility as parliamentarians. We will not, of course, go where it corresponds, to the Toledo Pact, and there we will defend our position. I ended, Madam President, with a phrase from President Mariano Rajoy in the past pension debate: This system is not only defended by words but is defended with realism, with reflection, with numbers and also by avoiding any kind of demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen, opportunism and demagogy do not pay pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u133	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Perea i Conillas whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u134	We're working on a transactional to introduce you to the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u136	We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to an institutional declaration on 8 April, International Day of the Gypsy People. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u137	Thank you, Madam President. The Plenary of the Congress of Deputies, in its session today, has approved by assent the following institutional declaration on the occasion of the celebration of the International Day of the Gypsy People, April 8, 2018: This celebration responds to the commemoration of the First World Congress Rome/Gitan held in London on April 8, 1971, in order to unite the voice of the Gypsy people. Since then, this date has served, in addition to recalling its history and paying tribute to the gypsy victims of the various persecutions throughout the centuries, to promote the recognition of their culture and values and to claim the need to continue to make progress in adopting policies in favour of the gypsy people. Despite this, today there are still negative prejudices towards Gypsy people, as indicated in the National Strategy for the Social Inclusion of the Gypsy Population in Spain 2012-2020. This explicitly recognizes the persistence of these negative prejudices in part of the Spanish population, causing the systematic rejection of this people who becomes one of the groups that suffers the greatest social animation. However, the integration plans for the Roma people that have been implemented since the 1980s, despite their progressive progress, continue to disregard in their entirety the demographic complexity of this ethnic minority, as well as the contributions it has made to the cultural heritage. In addition, gender and age are two categories that articulate multiple exclusion in relation to ethnic affiliation, leading to complex forms of intersectoral discrimination. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to recognize the differential impact that both the historical gypsy reality and the present institutional configuration exercise today on the rights of gypsies and gypsies according to their age, with particular attention to youth and women's participation. The Roma people continue to be seen in Spain from the perspective of prejudice and stereotyping, mainly because of the distorted image that society has of it, sometimes, the result of the interpretation of the reality that the media collects, among which we include social networks because they expand and reconfigure the media organization and the systems of dissemination of information and knowledge. Gypsies thus see their possibilities for social, economic and cultural development and development undermined; the preconceived ideas, promoted in mass, act as a brake for their real and effective incorporation into society. For this reason, we express the strongest rejection and condemnation, from any legal, ethical, aesthetic and democratic perspective, of any communicative practice, whether journalistic, corporate or private, that reinforces or extends prejudices and stereotypes that represent the distorted image of the gypsy reality, because with them lies xenophobia, stigmatization and the expression of hatred towards the gypsy people. Article 10.2 of the Constitution states that the rules on fundamental rights and freedoms recognized by the Constitution shall be interpreted in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international treaties and agreements on the same matters ratified by Spain. These include all declarations, pacts, European charters and conventions that guarantee human rights from an integrated, cross-cutting approach to the Roma population. We also take into account the European Parliament's resolution on aspects of the integration of Gypsies into the Union related to fundamental rights: Combating Anti-Gypsyism, adopted by all parties in this House that have a presence in the European Parliament. [[2017, European Union]] Today, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies reaffirms its unanimous commitment to the Gypsy people so that, according to estimates, the million Gypsy people in Spain can make their voice heard and develop their lives as citizens of full right. Madrid, 10 April 2018. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen, on their feet, back to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-10-CD180410.u138	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and five minutes of the night.
