ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u1	Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Manuel Gabriel González Ramos, I ask Doña Soledad Amada Velasco Baides if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u3	And in place of Dona Ana María Botella Gómez, I ask Don Antonio Quintana Martínez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u4	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u5	Doña Soledad Amada Velasco Baides and Don Antonio Quintana Martínez have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u6	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to include as the last item on the agenda of the plenary meeting next Thursday, 28 June, a new paragraph on the election of a Member, in accordance with the third point of the resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on Official Secrets of 11 May 2004. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The inclusion in the agenda of the reference paragraph is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u7	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate to consider the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the reform of the system of permits and allowances for the care and care of minors by their parents in cases of birth, adoption, custody for adoption or foster care. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Iglesias Turrion has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Today we present in this House a proposal for a law that was vetoed by the People's Party government two years ago. Unfortunately, it is late, but today we will have the opportunity to see in this Congress that we have thrown out the People's Party of the Government and at the same time we will be able to convey to the citizens that from now on the Congress of Deputies counts, that from now on the Congress of Deputies commands. I want to make five considerations to defend this bill. The first is to tell them that it is not our merit, it is the merit of social groups and women who have been fighting against labour discrimination against women for years. There is something that is very close to me: men are not to help women in raising children, we are to share the responsibilities at 50%, we are to share responsibility. I would especially like to thank the PPiiNA, the Platform for Equal and Intransferable Maternity and Parental Permits, which has been struggling since 2002 to make our country an example of feminist legislative policies. On 8 March Spain, Spanish women demonstrated that our country is at the forefront of feminism. I think it is fair that this Congress is up to Spanish women and that we can put Spain at the head of feminist legislation. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, caring is a right; we have the right to care and we have the right to be cared for, and it is essential that care ceases to be invisible. Care must be at the heart of the policies of a decent Government. It cannot be that care is the exclusive task of women; it cannot be that care continues to serve to make women marginalized in the labour market. Care must be distributed and, above all, care must be valued. Third consideration: men must take responsibility for care. Historically, reconciliation policies have been implemented that were aimed exclusively at women wage earners. That was to reproduce a patriarchal structure that assumed gender roles according to which only women had to take care of care. We need policies that give men the right to take care of, but above all policies that require men to take care of and make us co-responsible. Machism, ladies and gentlemen, is not only fought with words and gestures. Machismo must be combated in the reproductive economy. I told them that it is up to me very closely and I want to make it clear: it is not up to me to help my partner raise our children; it is up to me to share these tasks at 50% and I want to have a law that obliges me to do so, because my partner, like all women in this country, has the right not to be discriminated against at work, and because my children, like all boys and girls in this country, have the right to grow up in an environment and in a family structure that is not sexist. [[Applauds]] There is something, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone can understand: it is not enough for curricula to teach boys and girls that we are all the same; boys and girls must live it at home. Fourth consideration: why permits should be non-transferable. For a very simple reason, because when permits are not non-transferable in the end, it is always women who are exclusively responsible for care tasks. This is not an opinion, this reveals all the data from the studies that speak of the sharing of care tasks between men and women. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what right is transferable? Is the right to have a public school transferable? Is the right to have a holiday transferable? Is the right to health transferable? Rights, by definition, are not transferable. Fifth consideration: permits must be equal. And we propose that, for the time being, it should be sixteen weeks. I say that it will not be so much to suggest that the boys and girls in Spain have at least one of their parents taking care of them at home for thirty weeks. We are still far from some European countries in this area. But I believe it is our duty and it is the Government's duty to defend and expand the welfare state and something that has to do with the sustainability of our pension system, now yes: to promote birth, ladies and gentlemen. I want to end with a personal reflection. Three women raised me: my mother, a lawyer, raised me; my grandmother, a tailor, raised me, and my aunt, a waitress, raised me, and made me very happy. But I think I owe them something, because to raise me they had to make a lot of resignations and a lot of sacrifices. I must do for my children exactly the same as those women did for me. The men of this country owe it to our mothers and grandmothers to do for our children and our daughters the same thing they did for us. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u9	The joint parliamentary group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde, has the floor on the position-setting table.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Pick it up on. The current model of permits is patriarchal, the weight of care continues to fall on women. Care must therefore be placed in the centre, in the broadest sense of the word; a social paradigm must be changed. Care is not solely the responsibility of families; of course, not only of women. It is necessary to collect them, to socialize them. It is not a problem of conciliation; it is a matter of co-responsibility, and this requires a wide range of measures. This one that is presented to us today is one of them. Egalitarian, non-transferable and 100 per cent paid permits are essential, but it is clear that many more measures are needed related to the development of public services, employment and working conditions, with the necessary change of gender roles, and that the gender gap is a reality to be combated in occupation, wages, working hours and pensions. In all of them, the reality of women is far from the desired one, and this inequality that makes women work in worse conditions, that we hold partial jobs, in many cases unintentionally, and that makes us poor pensioners creates added difficulties in advancing co-responsibility in the care of children, since we are not equal in the labour market. We will therefore support this initiative, but we will not fail to call for other measures of advancement, such as the need for concrete measures for single-parent and single-maritime families to advance the extension of the concept of family that goes beyond the couple, and for those who want to share care with two friends to also be able to access permits, to cite a few examples. Euskal Herria Bildu is already proposing such measures, including proposals for legislation in Euskal Herria, despite the added obstacle we have with the limited powers we have to advance in order to achieve real equality. We will continue to do so and, in the meantime, we will support progress as proposed to us for the benefit of all and, in particular, all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u11	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u12	Thank you, Madam President. We are certainly before the equality legislature, and since the last few weeks we have been talking more about equality than we were talking about, which is good news. But it is precisely this law, the law on equal and non-transferable permits, that is fundamental to achieving that equality, and it is fundamental because we need to eliminate discrimination in the labour market, it is fundamental because we need real and effective equality also in the care environment, but it is also fundamental because our children deserve to be cared for both by their father and by their mother. It is a fundamental legislative change and so far too many excuses have been made. Let us stop making excuses for equality and make the changes that are really necessary. And that is what I say by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who have been vetoing this bill for a long time, saying there was no money. There was no money, but they did set aside 800 million euros for defense and let the Church continue to pack 250 million euros. There is money; it is not about money, it is about priority. It is a fundamental and priority legislative change; let us stop making excuses and make the changes. And that is also what I say for Citizens, as the rapporteur on the proposal for a law has done. They must be non-transferable permits because there is no other transferable right. We could talk about making health transferable, we could talk about making vacation transferable, making unemployment benefits transferable, but it wouldn't make any sense. Nor does the right and obligation to care for our children be transferable. It is a fundamental change; let us not make further excuses, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens. And Podemos and the PSOE, I'm telling you, this law has been in the tinter for over a decade, it's been vetoed for two years. Let us now make what we have not been able to do other times possible. We have the opportunity to take a giant step with the passage of this law. Let's not make any more excuses and make 2018 really the year of equality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u13	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Today is a happy day and from our group we celebrate that this consideration is finally discussed. I would like to point out that since 2007 my partner Mercè Pigem has promoted an equality law in which permits reach four weeks. It had to come into force in 2011 and it has not been until this legislature when the four-week permits finally came into force for the parents. It's not enough, it's obvious. Moreover, it was not perfect, it was very imperfect, if you want, but it was a breakthrough, because we have always been convinced that maternity and paternity permits were a real ballast in their current configuration for women, apart from genuine discrimination. We are talking about a law that gives rights, that does not oblige, Mr. Iglesias; this law does not oblige, it gives you and all men a right to be parents. It's a law that gives you the right to enjoy your children, that doesn't force you if you don't want to use it, you lose it, but you don't lose the mother because you don't accumulate it. In this country, the ten weeks of free mother's disposition always have an impact on her and she never gives in to them because the right is not the father's. A law is never an obligation, a law is a right - in this case even more - and it is a blessing because it is progress and progress towards equality. We defend it, we are proud to have believed in it since 2012, when we met the PPiiNA proposal that we fell in love with. We put forward a non-legislative proposal which was unanimously adopted in the Equality Commission and which did not serve anything - whatever it may be said - but which was a small step forward. Therefore, we feel co-authors and promoters of this bill, we will vote in favour of it with great enthusiasm and hope that it can be a reality as soon as possible. In any case, increasing the father's right to care is good news. And most importantly, lords of Citizens, it never has to be simultaneous with that of the mother, it always has to be alternative, because caring for a child not only involves caring for the child but also involves caring for other children, if there are them, taking care of the house and also alone, not helping the woman, as the proposer has said. Let us therefore move forward on equal terms, be radical supporters of this equality and put an end to the systemic discrimination that constituted abusive permissions for mothers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u16	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Iglesias, you ended your speech by referring to a personal reflection and I will add another of the same tenor: I am the father of two daughters and I want for them a more just and more egalitarian society. That is why I am announcing that we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. The truth is that this initiative, as you know, does not address a single reality but rather constitutes a focus on a plurality of legal titles that we should analyse separately but also jointly. To say that this is a proposal for a law, as its title says, of measures to protect children is true, because it is true that the right of children to be cared for by their parents is also part of the list of rights that we must contemplate as such. That's true, but it's not just that. To say that these are measures aimed at promoting gender equality is obvious, because we obviously need to amend labour legislation, but not only labour legislation but also other measures such as the co-responsibility of men and women. There is some measure in this very interesting initiative in this regard. But it is not just that either, because we know the situation in the field of labour legislation, we described it this morning in the Toledo Pact Commission, where there have been appearances precisely to address issues relating to differential gender treatment in the field of social security. It came out of the Commission thinking precisely that this legislative proposal was not aimed at a single interest, but at a plurality of interests that needed to be combined in order to promote a determined policy for equality and other interests that are also associated with them, and that is why the wage gap, the glass ceiling... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u17	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u18	... or other issues relating to salary treatment are at stake in this proposal, possibly with different treatments, but we will certainly talk about them as well. It also refers to another legal interest under consideration: the future of this society. I said that it came out of the Toledo Pact, but it is impossible to contemplate the future of social security without certain birth policies that are favored precisely by active policies in favour of equal treatment within the family and the promotion even of birth policies, which refers to another different legal title. This leads me to civil and civil law, to the equal treatment of the different formulas of families we know in this country and that in some way, and with the recognition of this new sense of parental law, they can also be integrated into the legal system in a quite correct way. The truth is that, as you know, apart from this plurality of legal titles, this has an earlier history. Act No. 12/2001 began to deal with the issue of paternal rights, Act No. 3/2007 continued to do so, amended article 48 of the Workers'Statute and ended with Act No. 9/2009. This law, apart from others, is the continuation of other reflections that are internalized within the European Union itself and that are aimed at the equalization of permits between the two genders, but also at the promotion of certain policies that favour co-responsibility within the family. In this sense, this initiative addresses a block of reflections that I have intended to divide in some way, since it proposes a new system that caters - as has been explained - to the possible enjoyment of sixteen weeks of parental leave, of which six will be of compulsory enjoyment, the first two being immediate to the cause, birth, adoption or reception, and the remaining ten being of a voluntary nature. The second, of an individualized, very important nature, is the right of the parent, which also gives him the possibility of intransferability, avoiding policies that have been of inequality in this regard. Thirdly - apart from a number of things that I am not going to comment on because they are well known - the timetable for implementation, which seems to me to be sensible to contemplate, will be discussed at the moment, if this initiative comes forward. And it ends with two other elements that are curious. I have previously referred to social awareness, which has to do with co-responsibility, which has to do with the evolution of this society towards more appropriate, fairer and more egalitarian models. That is also an initiative that has greatly pleased me. And it ends with another one concerning the impulse of a public system of children's education. In Euskadi we have already implemented it, I am not going to advertise it, but it is true that it is a reality that is closely linked to this area of co-responsibility and the possibility of care for minors. Therefore, Mr Iglesias, of the Podemos Group, we participate in the philosophy of the proposal. Surely not all the measures will be of our liking, I am sure that you will accept our criticisms willingly, but as a whole it seems to us to be a correct, necessary and necessary measure that needed to be presented in this area of legislation for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u19	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, those who are present, because the others do not know what they will do when they vote if they do not know our positions. Anyway... On the proposal for a law that we are debating today on the reform of the system of permits and allowances for the care and care of minors by their parents in the event of birth, adoption, foster care or foster care, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will vote in favour, taking into account the social and economic reality of this beginning of the 21st century. Above all, we give priority to the care of children, their needs and the importance for them of receiving them from both parents. The messages that are transmitted from parenting are assimilated in such a way that they will begin to be part of their way of being and seeing life, an educational process in values that must begin from the minute one. The goal of gender equality and respect education is to eradicate the sexist upbringing of boys and girls. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u21	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u22	We believe it is important to insist on the equal co-responsibility of the care and care of children in the family nucleus, a family nucleus that now encompasses different family models, because the family plays a very important role in the development of people. On the other hand, the imbalance in the current regulation of the duration of permits according to gender not only perpetuates inequality in the responsibilities of care and care of minors between men and women, but also has harmful effects on the working environment of women themselves. We all know that companies refuse to hire women or pay them the same salary for the expense of the maternity period. They are therefore considered as high-risk labour, as they are forced to assume full-time responsibility for care and care for a prolonged period of time. This further deepens the gender-based labour discrimination that affects aspects such as the wage gap, job insecurity and female poverty, as well as a gender-segregated labour market. That is why we also advocate the equalization of care and care permits for both men and women, preventing them from being transferable, with a 100 per cent benefit from the regulatory base and with equal protection of their jobs. Providing children with adequate care and care by their parents is a first-class investment in aspire to be a modern, advanced and egalitarian society. That is why it is so important to propose a law on compulsory, equal, non-transferable and 100 per cent remunerated permits in cases of birth, reception or adoption. However, compañeras and compañeros de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the legislative changes that we must make in order to have an egalitarian society and in which there is a reconciliation of work, family and personal life are so many that, if we are presenting specific initiatives like this, we will be able to have a welfare state like the Nordic countries in fifty years, even more so with the blockade and boycott that the People's Party and Citizens make in an anti-democratic way on the progressive proposals made in this House. That's why from Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia we bet on a constituent process, for the creation of a republic that re-establishes from scratch the whole society and that establishes the foundations of a more just and equal society without having to wait those fifty years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u23	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u24	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Iglesias, your speech is very emotional, I share it, imagine, I am a woman and a mother and, since we are talking about personal things, I am a divorced mother with the custody of my daughter. But since you've missed a part of reality, let's go with it. Today is 26 June and just today two years have passed since the last general election and some things have changed in these two years; we would like to see many more, but some have changed. One of those changes, one of the achievements that we feel most proud of in Citizens, is that of increasing paternity permits. For us it has always been an absolute priority and the reality is that without governing, negotiating, we have managed to change things. In June 2016, how long did parents have for paternity leave? Fifteen days. Two years later, June 2018, how many weeks can parents enjoy? Four weeks and one more, which is already fixed in the General Budgets of the State; that is, five weeks in total if Mr Sánchez's Government executes the budgets as demanded by Citizens to the previous Government of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In total paternity permits have increased three weeks in these two years and that increase was voted against over and over again by both United Podemos and the Socialist Group. All right, let's freshen up the memory. Contrary to what you have done with the Socialist Party, we negotiate with the People's Party in a completely transparent manner. We also did it before with the Socialist Party. All these negotiations were embodied, black on white, in a document, the last with the People's Party, 150 measures to improve Spain. Measure 66, our requirement: To adopt all necessary measures with the aim of equalizing paternity leave with maternity leave in the coming years. In addition, after that, we agreed on budgets to ensure that there was an allocation for their implementation. On the other hand, if it had been for you, Members of Parliament and Members of the Podemos, with its constant is not, the parents and families with children born during these last two years would have run out of those extra weeks; something that they could no longer recover. So, just for that, for those families and for those children born these years, the Citizens Party is proud, it has been worth it. [[Applauds]] We have clearly shown that for Citizens this measure is a priority, govern who governs and the present one who presents it we will continue to support it, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a basic issue that we carried on in our government program and because we, unlike you, will never make use of it is not if it is a measure that benefits women and men and, ultimately, the families of our country. It is true that the modification of paternity and maternity leave is a step towards equality, co-responsibility and also the promotion of birth, but not only those goals will be achieved with the equalization of leave, but it is necessary for the State and companies in our country to take steps to promote reconciliation, equality and support for families. Moreover, not only do we talk about equality, it is about the support of our welfare State. We usually have the wrong idea that it's always going to be there, but the reality is that we're building it on a day-to-day basis. It's our responsibility, everyone's, to take care of it and improve it. The family and personal life along with the work we develop are two of the basic pillars on which our society is based. If you fail, it all tumbles. We are therefore faced with one of the most important challenges of twenty-first century society. Anyone who's listening to us right now will know what we're talking about. Some men and, above all, many women are forced to give up their professional career, they have to choose between professional career or family. That either postpones so long the decision to have children that, in the end, comes late. What kind of country is it that prevents or does not make it easier for its citizens to be parents? Apart from the personal frustration that this generates, it causes serious harm to society as a whole, the decline in birth rate and the inability to sustain the pension system, among other things. That is why it is necessary and urgent to do much more. This initiative does not propose any additional solutions that are also necessary to promote all of this. It does not provide incentives for companies to contribute to this co-responsibility and conciliation, it does not provide incentives for men and women of childbearing age to be hired, nor does it propose specific measures to prevent discrimination in the recruitment of women. We talk and talk about conciliation all the time, but we make little progress. Spain follows the line of investment in this area, so, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to make a major leap in these conciliation policies, more paternity and maternity permits and, moreover, to be equal; yes. We will therefore vote in favour of admission to the procedure, but this must be accompanied by other measures. Since I am here, I would like to recall that we Citizens have tabled a proposal for a law on conciliation, equality and support for very ambitious families. We also hope to have the support that we now give them, because Spain needs to make that great qualitative leap in this area. To this end, in our law, in addition to the increase and equalization of parental leave up to thirty-four weeks, we include other necessary measures, among others, education for children from zero to three years universal and free of charge; greater support for single-parent families and large numbers; mandatory equality plans for enterprises from one hundred workers; the development of the right of workers to reconcile, which includes a package of flexibility measures with incentives for enterprises; retributive transparency, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the United States We can, today, support this initiative that you bring here and we trust that you will put your partisan refusal aside and, as far as I am concerned, also support all those very necessary measures that we have put forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u25	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u26	Very good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, equality is a matter of state and priority for the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The road map is well known to the House: to rebuild rights and freedoms that have been dismantled over the past six years, to reverse the perverse dynamics between the People's Group and the Citizens' Group and also to expand rights and freedoms in relation to gender equality and in relation to paternity and maternity permits. In short, to put an end to one of the main scourges, which is gender discrimination in the professional sphere. Motherhood cannot continue to be an obstacle to the integration of women into the world of work; it is discriminatory and attacks on the demographics and the future of the country. For this reason, there are many proposals from the Socialist Group which, in addition to the one dealt with today, seek to promote co-responsibility and give value to care with laws that inspire decent maternity and paternity leave and in terms of equality and that include hourly flexibility also for care; rules in which the State is responsible through a public service network that also generates employment. In addition to social justice, the integration of equality into the economic response is key to bringing this country forward, especially when the former Government has not wanted to respond to a majority social consensus calling for the care of children on equal terms. The proposal for debate here today involves the recognition of a right that came from the hand of the Equality Act in 2007 under the chairmanship of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. We are talking about a right for mothers and fathers that becomes an instrument to promote equality and that contributes to a shift towards less sexist attitudes, so we support the beginning of its processing. This group will propose and support all the measures aimed at working for this concern so that our individual and collective life projects go from yearning to reality, thinking - now yes - about that 50% of the population that has been silenced during these years, because in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are clear that work is our guarantee of independence in order to be citizens, mothers and workers. In short, the Socialist Group is in favour of encouraging the improvement of permits. We want to move towards equal, non-transferable maternity and paternity leave with adequate remuneration and an equal obligation for both parents. We are opening a process where we cannot err by causing setbacks in the rights of the recipient of the benefit and suspending his or her employment relationship by maternity. Not only can we talk about leave related to care, but we also need to talk about health care and the six-week minimum that women need after childbirth, and we also need to be rigorous with the use of language. After six years of gender blindness and keeping in the drawer the extension of paternity leave, which should have been approved by 2011, there is now real confidence that this Government will implement different measures and deepen the lines established by the previous Equality Act. The first proof that the gender perspective is back in this House is that this is the third time that the proposing group has put forward the same proposal and, after two vetoes by the government and citizens, now this government does give us the opportunity to discuss equality. This opportunity for debate has to answer many questions. How do we want to organize in this country, a country where grandparents have to take care of their grandchildren and cannot rest, where parents cannot spend enough time with their children, a country where the wage gap exceeds 23%, where temporary contracts always sign them and half do so because they have unshared family burdens, a country where more than those born die? It is our responsibility that this issue be of the first order on our country's political agenda. As I said, we have to regain the spirit of the 2007 Act, we do not start from anything, we have the socialist proposal to ensure equal treatment and opportunities for men and women in employment and occupation. We also have the work done in this House with the cooperation of groups and organisations that have expressed their views. We can look back, what has not been done, what so many women's statistics and testimonies credit, but in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to look forward and live in a country in which to form a family, to be a father or mother, is not an impossible mission. That is why we cannot be wrong and we must be ambitious in view of the new reality, the growing increase in single-parent households, the third of births that do not generate any maternity or paternity benefits, because many of these young people are just job seekers and have not been able to contribute. We must also recover the Toledo Pact in order to meet these new realities to which Social Security must respond. In short, the goal is shared, the necessary progress for society, for women, for men, for families and for the change in the entrepreneurial culture of this country. We are looking for a model to modernize society and foster birth. We want to move from proposals to facts. The Legislature and the State have to remove obstacles to guarantee real equality, because feminism is not optional, feminism is mandatory in democracy, and it is that the gender perspective demands the Constitution and marks democracy and the streets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u27	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs. Dueñas Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to be repulsed and saddened by the four women who have been murdered cowardly in the last ten days. That's enough! From this House we raise our voices. No more murders! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject that is being brought to this House today, I rise to the rostrum to set out my group's position on the proposal for a law tabled by the Group of the European People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again talking about equal and non-transferable parental leave, we are talking about the rights of parents, we are talking about the rights of children. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, it is increasingly the parents who actively exercise parenting and co-responsibility in the same sense as mothers, and this is a transformation in how the current model of paternity is perceived. I think it is important to note that the Constitutional Court has recently admitted to the appeal of nine parents for amparo, and it will also be the plenary of the Constitutional Court to discuss this issue in order to determine whether the current regulation of permits conforms to the constitutional principle of equality that must govern it. In the opinion of the High Court, it is expressly stated in the order for admission that this raises a relevant legal question which has a general social or economic impact. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the various speakers - some of them in their usual and bitter criticisms of the previous Government - I must say that always this parliamentary group, the previous Government, was in favour of equal and non-transferable permits, as we also said that we understood that any modification or revision of the parameters affecting the social security system or entailing an increase in expenditure should be subject to the study and analysis of the Committee on the Toledo Pact. Ladies and gentlemen, no one escapes, because the data are there, that when we arrive at the government we find ourselves in a painful economic situation that brought with it the logical budgetary restrictions. This, ladies and gentlemen, of course it influenced. In spite of that, we continue to work and carry out this equalization gradually and gradually. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous executive has always been committed and worked for equality, a subject that is brought to this House today. In fact, as already pointed out by the spokesman for Citizens, from 1 January 2017 the paternity permit was extended to four weeks. In the General Budgets of the State for 2018, those that so much criminalized from the left, the Socialist Party, Podemos and the other partners of this government of promises, is contemplated this increase of another week of that paternity permit. I announce that, because of the responsibility we have exercised during our administration in the Government, we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. We want to continue, in this case from the opposition, working and strengthening the line followed in these years. To speak, Mrs Peña, of blindness in these matters is not to want to recognize the data that are there. Spain has not by chance been leading the decline of unemployment in the euro area for more than fifty months with the policies of the People's Party government. I do not tell you that we are not left with things to do, which we are sure to do, but with these policies women's employment has been placed at the top and the wage gap in historical minimums, below the European average; all the women's employment destroyed by the crisis that you generated with your inefficient management; six out of ten new entrepreneurs are women; more than 385,000 women are paid maternity supplement; barely a month ago, in May, more than 84 000 women have signed an indefinite contract; for the first time in our country, and it was with a Government of the People's Party, the right to telework, the right to a reduction in childcare hours, the part-time contract, where protection has been equalled at full time; the leave for breastfeeding has been amended. This, and much more, is what has been achieved at this stage of the administration of the People's Party Government. This is to move forward with facts in conciliation, co-responsibility and equality. They come to this House to give lessons, with that purported moral superiority which they have left, Mr. Iglesias, which leaves the left, with some exceptions, we must say so. Come down from that supposed moral and exclusive superiority, by which you consider that only you are able to talk about equality policies, that only you are able to flag feminist policies. To speak of feminism is to speak of responsibility, and this Government has exercised and will continue to do so, as active and passive, from the opposition. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by inviting the group that supports the Government to get to work, to keep those promises, because there are many promises, many photos too, but we are going to wait for the facts. The People's Parliamentary Group will be very attentive. Take off those glasses and start looking with reality at the work that needs to be done from unity - I always remarry it - in order to advance in equality, in conciliation and in co-responsibility. We are convinced that full equalisation of permits progressively for both parents is an optimal tool for promoting equal opportunities in employment between women and men, while enabling absolutely necessary measures to be taken in favour of birth. As a woman, as a mother, as a daughter, this debate is important, and we do it for all women, for all the men who preceded us and for all those who fought for many women to be working in different sectors. It is important to discuss, it is important to dialogue, it is important to reach consensus. What I hope and trust, especially as a mother, is that in the near future in which my children live these situations that have been the subject of debate today are absolutely normalized and integrated into our daily lives. Only in this way will we have achieved the objective for which all, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the ideological discrepancies that we can at some points distance, I am convinced that we work day by day. This parliamentary group assures you that it will be there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u29	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, THE REGULATORY BODY FOR EUTANASIA. [[File number 122/00239]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u30	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Organic Socialist Parliamentary Group for the regulation of euthanasia. Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today our parliamentary group is putting before this House the proposal for a law regulating euthanasia; a new legislative advance in the field of rights which, as always in the history of our country, comes from the hands of the Socialist Party. We do so, as it cannot be otherwise, remembering people like Ramon Sampedro, Immaculate Echevarría or so many others who opened their way socially to a necessary, important and now urgent debate. We present this law on the regulation of euthanasia from respect for the dignity, freedom and autonomy of the will of those people whose only current perspective is suffering and wish to put an end to their calvary. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u32	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u33	These are extreme cases as a result of an irreversible prognosis. The horizon of a hopeless deterioration makes these citizens want to decide for themselves when and how to die. It's his last right and his last freedom, to die well. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a broad social consensus - and you know it - in the last decade already calling for the regulation of euthanasia, and the time has come to transform that social demand, that consensus, into a political consensus in this House, and I am convinced that we can also do so. Our political position has always been very clear. First, to regulate palliative care, the right to a dignified death and, therefore, months ago because we supported the regulation presented by another parliamentary group in this House. And, secondly, to address the question of the regulation of euthanasia, that is, the deliberate act of putting an early end to life at one's own request, in order to avoid suffering. We are aware that this is a much more complex issue because of the moral and religious implications or prejudices that it creates. These are two separate debates which can go in parallel, but which we believe should not be mixed. Ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists have had a lot to do with both initiatives in this House. Some countries in our environment, such as the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, have already regulated it; and in many countries they are debating it as we are today. From this point of view of comparative law, we opted for the most guarantee model of those countries that have had a guarantee regulation. A few months ago in this House, the Catalan Parliament presented a bill that merely decriminalized euthanasia. As it could not be otherwise, we support it; an initiative that we share and which is also reflected in our law. But we believe that it must be accompanied by a regulation of the whole process, including it as a universal benefit and that it has sufficient guarantees of legal and health security. The latter we understand is essential. The drafting of this proposal has not been easy or quick, because we understood that it is something that we must legislate calmly. We have been working on it for a long time and, as always, we have done so intensively and rigorously. I am pleased to say that, precisely because of this, the text that we are bringing to this House today is a good piece of legislation. During this process we have had contact with associations that defend the right to die decently, with health professionals, and we have worked on this text with several experts who have unselfishly collaborated with the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this very complex work. I take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all of them. [[Applauds]] We wanted to get a text capable of attracting enough consensus between political forces, but also between health professionals, and, of course, that of society as a whole, and the result - let me say - cannot be more satisfactory. The first difficulty in drafting the text - and I believe it has been well resolved - was to ensure the regulation of euthanasia, the complex and necessary balance between the legal assets to be protected and the rights at stake: the right to life, physical and moral integrity, human dignity, the free development of personality, the autonomy of will. This regulation guarantees in our law, as it could not otherwise be, the protection of the fundamental right to life recognized in article 15 of our Constitution, but also the recognition that it is not, as it is not, an absolute right. It is a right that must be modulated according to other values, among which - for the purposes that interest us here - the dignity of the person deserves to be emphasized. Well, we do not defend the right to have one's own life exclusively as an exercise of the will and self-determination of the person. We defend the possibility that such a terrible decision can be made freely and consciously, without any legal reproach, and much less criminal, when life is incompatible with our own conception of what a dignified life is, either for suffering from a serious and incurable illness or a serious chronic disability which, in both cases, entails an intolerable physical or psychological suffering for the sufferer. Accordingly, this bill recognizes the right to end one's life in these two cases, a serious incurable disease or a serious and chronic disability. It includes the provision of assistance to die in the National Health System's portfolio of services, ensuring - because it is our obligation to do so - their universal and free access. It establishes a sufficient legal and health guarantee framework that necessarily includes, first, mechanisms to ensure that the decision of the person requesting it is pressure-free, informed and sustained over time, and not because of circumstances of the person that have more to do with a lack of decent, medical, social or family conditions to deal with this situation. It gives the possibility of the benefit occurring in the home itself or in private social or health centres. Contrary to what happens with dignified death, it is not included in the code of ethics of health professions and therefore allows conscientious objection of health professionals. It envisages the creation of a monitoring and evaluation commission that controls the entire process in a pre- and post-death manner. She's a very assertive man, ladies and gentlemen. As previously envisaged, it decriminalizes euthanasia, for which it is logically necessary to reform the Penal Code, provided that it occurs in the assumptions and conditions set out above. Frankly, we believe that it is a good law, a legislative advance of the twenty-first century. For this reason, I call for support from all the groups in this House; I call for them to forget moral, religious and ideological prejudices and to accompany their vote in the sense of Spanish citizenship, which is demanding a decisive response on this matter; that they not be left out, as they have done so many times, of the progress we propose to them in the field of rights. Ramon Sampedro said: 'No freedom can be built upon a tyranny. No justice, no injustice or pain. No universal good, about unjust suffering.' For him, and for many others, let us regulate the last freedom, the last right. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u34	At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already set my party's position in a previous debate on euthanasia in the Catalonian Parliament, and I will therefore insist on a few reasons to vote against it. As I said, my party defends the dignity of the human being and the right to life from its conception to its natural end. Therefore, we do not share that discourse that accepts that there are human lives that, depending on their evolution, development or end, are disposable or do not deserve to be protected. For us, the right to life entails the collective duty to help live, not the right, and even less the duty to help anyone die. The right to life cannot at the same time protect the right to help eliminate a human life. We also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there are effective alternatives to euthanasia. It is a grave mistake to accept this regulation without having universalized and evaluated all the positive effects of good palliative care. We also believe that it is false that your proposal responds to a social cry or a demand sustained by most professionals and much less to the desire of the patients themselves when they can also be treated with palliative care. Ladies and gentlemen, if the ultimate logic of your euthanasia is to help those who wish to die, my question is: Why limit that person's will, his freedom, his sovereignty, his right to decide whether to be very sick or suffer? Why put obstacles to their freedom? Look, ladies and gentlemen, in your day we pass a law to recognize the right to abortion under very exceptional conditions; today, we do not need any reason to prevent the life of an unborn person. When society renounces to defend life and assumes that exceptional, kind, etc. reasons can be found or sought to eliminate a human life, in the end we will find no reason to defend it; a slope, ladies and gentlemen, very slippery. We believe that this proposal perverts the relationship of trust between doctors and patients from the moment that the doctor can prescribe to be eliminated; and we also do not believe that it is an equal law, because it will not be the people with the most resources or those who are most accompanied by their families who want to be eliminated or foresee it; no, it will be the ones who are the most alone, the most disadvantaged, in essence the most destitute by society, the weakest. Therefore, and for those reasons, we do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going to build a better society with your proposal or that it is no progress. In any case, I believe that this is a debate that does require a vote in conscience, and I also appeal to the conscience of all Members that, beyond the strict setting of their group's positions, they choose life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again debating the right to live fully and to decide on our life. We recently approved the adoption of a proposal for a law that came from the Parliament of Catalonia and that raised the decriminalization of euthanasia, and now we are addressing a text to regulate the so-called euthanasia context, which justifies the application of the medical procedure that will be made available to people. This bill speaks of the right to life and also speaks of other fundamental rights such as: physical and moral integrity, freedom and dignity, and we can ask ourselves whether a specific law is needed to address these fundamental rights. I say yes, there are moments in life that require special treatment. Just as we did with Organic Law 1/1996 of 15 January on the Legal Protection of Minors to implement fundamental rights in the minority, a special law must also be made when a person is in a situation in which he or she cannot irreversibly continue to live without serious impairment of all those fundamental rights. From this rostrum there have been objections to this law because it is thought that it could open the door to a loss of consideration of life as supreme value and that it could enter into a sort of elimination of those who are weak. These repairs are manageable and also concern Compromís, but we understand that this law precisely allows us to prevent euthanasia from being confused with eugenics. Obviously, in the process of amendments we must refine in many extremes, for example, in order to prevent the manifestation of the consent of the person's will and its repetition from becoming simply mechanical; or, also, we must improve the protocol of observation and support and prevent the conscientious objection of professionals from occurring only in public health but not in private health. In any case, we are facing a great step towards personal freedom and Compromís will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Democratic Party we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. We will also ask, when the time is right, for appearances to be requested in order to fine-tune this text in the best possible way. We believe that it is a step forward, that it is a good text, that it is necessary and appropriate, because we are talking about the autonomy of the will and the right to decide of the people until they want to remain cared for in that circumstance, something that is very clear and meridian when one can give their consent, but that it is appropriate to put all the precautions and guarantees when that person cannot authorize it personally, but it has to be through acts or criteria of third parties, in this case of doctors or some technical commission as set out in the law. We agree that it is appropriate to regulate it because it gives safety to the medical profession, because it also protects the right to conscientious objection of the health or professional who does not want to, say, point to the decision of the patient or patient or his environment. It is, therefore, a law that for us it is appropriate to bring it forward with all guarantees. We will propose amendments and, as in the previous law, we are talking about rights, being able to decide, and that is up to the individual or through third parties. In no case is this law binding or binding on anyone, and any belief, any fear, any moral, ethical or religious prejudice is perfectly saved; on the contrary, if it is not respected and legislated for the whole citizenry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u41	Thank you, Madam President. José Hierro said, in his tearing and beautiful sonnet called Life, in his New York Book: '... After all this, everything for nothing'. Surely Saint Theresa of Jesus, if he had lived at the time, would have added: After so much nothing, for everything. Well, in any case I have neither the nihilist perception of Iron nor I come to the mystique of the saint of Avila, but what we cannot do is close our eyes and, therefore, do not see, and therefore do as if something does not exist and, as it does not exist, does not need a legislative framework. This poetic beginning comes to mind, and above all the phrase of Iron because, when life is, it is all, no doubt; but when it is not, it is nothing and we cannot understand life as a vacuum contrary to any minimum of dignity and where suffering is the only thing that keeps you alive and where you only live to suffer; and most importantly, when the will of the person decides that that is not life. And if it's all nothing or nothing, it's all decided by no one outside, but decided by yourself. We know that it is not so easy, neither ethically nor legislatively nor medically, since these are the three vertices in which any solution to this reality must be supported in which the will, ethics or lex artis medical is sometimes misintentionally mixed. There is no doubt that we must do everything possible to make people want to live, but it is not the same as wanting to live as living. For centuries, from science, philosophy and even religion, we have tried to answer the question of: Are we the owners of our lives?; and it's more: Are we the owners of our death? In any case, as a report prepared by the Barcelona College of Physicians recently states, the debate on the possible regulation and decriminalisation of euthanasia is not a medical, but a social, ethical and political debate, and it is up to us to legislate on it, obviously taking into account the views of the people, of the professionals who will then have to develop this. If we can boast of something in this legislature - well, in this short thing, half an entire legislature, whatever we have developed over the past two years - it is that it has been the legislature of the proposals on this subject. This is the third such initiative we have in the House. We had that of Podemos, that of the Parliament of Catalonia and now we have that of the Socialist Party, in addition to that of Citizens, on the dignity at the end of life, which is in paper, which is not the same but which is undoubtedly related. Therefore, there is interest and need. The proposal for a law of the Parliament of Catalonia passed the procedure; it called for the decriminalization of article 143 of the Criminal Code; that was left to it. We did not pass that of Podemos, which was more developed; we voted in favour, but obviously it was better. And here we have that of the Socialist Party, which already announces to you that we will vote in favour, and that we believe that it is better because, in addition to the decriminalisation that appears in its article, it recalls in its preamble - as the spokesman who put forward the proposal - that the European Court of Human Rights pronounces in one of its judgments that it is not acceptable that a country that has decriminalized euthanasia should not have drawn up and promulgated a specific legal regime. We agree with that. We are going to vote in favour because we believe that this is not a matter where we can legislate lightly. Legal, health and freedom and responsibility anchors, rights and obligations, must be firm, without spaces for improvisation or ambiguity, with guarantees for patients and guarantees for health personnel, with clear legal coverage for those who have to assume responsibility for carrying out the express desire of the patient, as well as a whole legal and health itinerary that clearly conditions and marks the space through which it is to be transited, without place for lightness. The patient's freedom must be combined - conditions that must be clear and precise - with health obligations. Without a doubt, the significance of this issue is total; I will never defend that one can take someone's life lightly, as it has been intended to express in this rostrum; never. I don't know who we're thinking about when we say certain things that have been said in this rostrum. We all know what cases we are talking about; let us not make frivolous judgments, please, because we are talking about very concrete cases, very concrete people and very, very serious situations. For how beautiful it is to want to live and to be able to do so; how bad it is to want to live and not to be able to do so; but surely the most serious thing is to want to die for not being able to live and not being able to do so. We live in an open and advanced society, prepared to deal with and resolve these kinds of situations with complete normality; and we, as the Basque Nationalist Party, as political leaders and also representatives of a democratic, plural, participatory, confessional and humanist party, open to progress and to all movements of progress that improve the quality of life of people, consider it necessary and opportune to discuss openly these issues that affect and will affect each and every citizen, establishing the principles, criteria and conditions for ensuring adequate attention from the Administration during the final process of life. We have positioned ourselves more than once; even in the Basque Parliament, together with the Socialist Party and Bildu, we have adopted a non-legislative proposal to amend article 143 of the Criminal Code to decriminalise what is called assisted suicide, and we are prepared to take a step beyond what is already legislated in Euskadi, because we think the issue of palliative care is very important and I think that is something necessary and vital, but we have to take even more steps. In this proposal for a law presented to us by the Socialist Group, we see that there are certain more developed anchorages. Of course, we have some doubts about certain issues that arise. We agree with many criteria proposed - other colleagues have developed - such as the issue of conscientious objection, etc., and we even believe that it sometimes falls to the regulatory level. I think that has to be dealt with in other spaces and not here. None of us here want to make a law against the dignity or freedom of people, and it is our obligation to provide all legal certainty to both professionals and patients. I hope we find the best way. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u42	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This motion for a law, as well as the one that we adopted in this House on the proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia, also that which just over a year ago was presented by the Podemos Group, bring us a topical issue, but not only that, but bring us a matter to talk about freedom. It is not important to talk about freedom in the Congress of Deputies if freedom is defended here to face life and freedom to face death, if we talk about the autonomy of the will, the ability to decide, how we want to live, how we want to die, how it is to be the final part of our life, of our situation in the face of suffering, of our suffering and of others. A little over a year ago, MP Igea said in this House that no one had the exclusive compassion in this Parliament, and I support it. That is right, I have seen during many debates Members and Members of the various parliamentary groups with compassion, concerned about the fate of their fellow Members, of the people who stand by them. No one has the exclusivity of compassion, but this statement does not contradict the fact that there are different forms, even antagonistic, of manifesting it. For a majority of this House, it is not enough for a wider majority of society to improve and ensure the proper use of palliatives, patient rights and guarantees, public servants in their administration and control; it is not little, but it is insufficient. We believe that the article of the Criminal Code can be reformed, as we have said in this House, and it can be subject to the development of a regulatory framework that guarantees it, without any doubt, compassion and guarantees. I know what has been done since Catalonia for many years. One of the references of rigorous and updated study is that of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia twelve years ago, twelve years ago. Therefore, we have the instruments if we have the will to die decently if it is a success, if it is a fact, if it is possible; and for that reason this bill can allow us not only to pass its procedure today in this House, but to extend it to the maximum possible in the work we do on it in its adoption. I think that we are all in time, all those who suffer with suffering, to put, from a very different ideological point of view, our grain of sand so that it can come forward. It does not have to be a law of a small majority, it has to be a law with a large majority that gives guarantees to all. That will be our group, because the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and article 10.1 of the Constitution are on this path. We will deploy this activity. Life is a fact and it is a right, it is neither an obligation nor a duty and, therefore, based on criteria such as this systematic ordination that allows us the law, this legal guardianship, we must ensure the freedom of individuals. It is no wonder that many of the people who deny individual freedom, the freedom to decide, are also those who deny the freedom of peoples; it is symptomatic, but we are always in time for individual freedom to never be an element that prevents us from moving forward together, on the contrary. Fifteen months ago the door was closed at the beginning of these works, I remember the words of Marta Sibina, who moved many of us, but not the party that is now in government. It will not be another law of the Socialist Party. If it were a law of the Socialist Party alone, it wouldn't go ahead. It will be an extra law today, and I hope that by the end of the processing of many more. We will support this proposal of the PSOE, as we gave it to the Parliament of Catalonia or more than a year ago in that presented by Podemos. Today Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia once again undertakes paths of freedom and commitment to the will of the people, without paying more attention to delays, to tactics, and we will start working, I hope. To finish what's better than the classics, we always have the classics. Lucio Anneo Seneca told us: 'Death is a punishment for some, for others a gift and for many a favor'. We will certainly do a favor, we will do a favor if we accept that death is not a punishment, but may also be a solution to problems of suffering. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to start by making a point. You have said, Mrs Lastra, that, as always, freedoms come by the hand of the Socialist Party. I would like to remind you, as you had to remind your President in his day, that democracy came to this country by agreement of all, that the Party Law was a law of the UCD; that the Divorce Law was also a law of the UCD, of a centrist party, and that among all of us we have brought freedoms to this country; that one cannot claim in this country the exclusive freedom, freedom by which many deputies on both sides have even given their lives. [[Applauds]] However, let's talk about freedom, let's talk about freedom because that's what it's about. This is about freedom, which is the ability to choose between many options; that is why we will not use the conservative arguments that we heard from the Vice-President a week ago in this House. We will not say that this is a law that has been processed in very few countries. We will not say that desires, that the will of man does not generate rights. We're not conservatives like you. [[Applauds]] Let me tell you that freedom, as Stuart Mill said, is man's ability to choose what he sees best as long as it does not harm others, and to choose between all options, not just between horror and death. That is why the law on rights and guarantees that is currently being processed was necessary, because it is a law that speaks of all options, all options and equality. That is why it is necessary to remember here today that 50,000 patients in Spain continue to die without palliative care, they continue to be unable to choose. In Murcia there are 0.5 doctors dedicated to palliative care per 100,000 inhabitants, while in the Basque Country there are almost 4. They do not choose the same thing as the people who live in the Basque Country and that is why our law was necessary. [[Applauds]] Let me also remind you that the Andalusian Ombudsman says that less than 10% of people who die in Andalusia are entitled to an advance declaration of will, that almost 50% of them see how this advance will document is being breached, that more than 50% of them feel misinformed and that more than 70% of people who die in this country die in the hospital, although most of them would like to die at home. We are not fulfilling the will, we are not giving the Spanish freedom and that is why our law was necessary. I will tell you about a report you also know because many of you have been in the presentation of this report; many of you have taken pictures with this report, the Luzon report, which speaks of the patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in this country. Only 5% of them have caregivers. Two out of three patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cannot communicate with their loved ones because they do not have communicators. 70% of them don't even have respiratory physiotherapy having breathing problems. Only 6% of them are able to spend EUR 35 000 a year on maintaining their care. Do they really choose? Do you really have a choice? Only the rich live? Only the poor die? Do you really think they can choose? You came here to say that first of all you had nothing to solve the social emergencies. This is a social emergency! This is a social emergency! [[Applauds]] That was why the law on rights and guarantees was necessary. But look, as we are talking about freedom, we are not going to oppose, among other things, because, as has already been said, the European Court of Rights does not allow decriminalisation or decriminalisation of assisted suicide, as has already happened in this House, if there is no framework, and this framework is necessary, but we are not going to hide ourselves in the struggle for freedom. You've said some things I'd like to need. You have said that your law is a law that guarantees and is well done. Let me tell you, I doubt it. Distinguish between chronic severe disability and incurable serious illness, and do well because they are two completely different matters that you should have in your law two completely different treatments. I'm gonna show you a case. [[Mr. Igea Arisketa shows a press clipping]] This is yesterday's paper from my city and this is Charly. Charly has a kidnapping syndrome, which is a heart attack in the brain thrombus that has left him speechless, unable to walk, and unable to feed. It took nine months to leave the UVI and adapt to their situation. It did not take 30 or 40 days, it took a long time to adapt, but today he reads, enjoys his wife and goes to rugby and with him I meet many days in the countryside. It's not the same thing as the other. You haven't dealt with the matter seriously enough. I will also tell you about your article 6 which says that in cases of incapacity in fact, the anticipated wills will apply immediately. This poses a serious risk that must be moderated. I will talk to you, if you like, about Article 7, according to which the right of early death can be signed by another person, and you only put as a witness again, as in the proposal of Podemos, to the doctor, and I think I remember that Mr. House said that he did not agree, as I am not. He can't be the only doctor in the fedate, and let's go if he wants to go to the Congressional Journal of Sessions. They also talk about something peculiar like that the patient will have the right to request a postponement. Excuse me? A postponement? Your right? He'll be the one to mark the day! You have no right to ask for a postponement, it's your right! They also say that if the patient dies within fifteen days, the act of the death of the patient can be anticipated. But then we're not talking about euthanasia, we're talking about sedation in a dying patient! Please do not mess with professionals any more; professionals who, in addition, mostly - they know - do not agree, as the WTO has said and as the Palliative Care Society has said. We could talk about many other things, such as previous control, which did not exist in the proposal of Podemos and which you, however, try to introduce here. What's wrong with that? They say that prior checking by a doctor and a law specialist will not prejudge the outcome. And what will happen if this doctor and legal specialist approve a euthanasia request and then the commission negatively evaluates it? Where will that doctor and law specialist be? Finally, I want to talk to you about the article I like best, which is article 10. Article 10 states that the doctor must not abandon the patient in the process of death, who must remain in the room until the end. I agree very much, because no one should die alone, no one should provide death to another human being if he is not able to look him in the eye. That is why I ask all of you to come into that room with me, to open the whey wheel, to see how the medication comes in, to observe how the patient pales, how his fingers become purple, the anguish of his gaze while taking his hand for the last time and to think if this we have done for his freedom, for our love for him or because he was alone or because we did not give him enough help or because we simply left him at the stand. If we are not able to enter that room, it would be better if this law did not end its processing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u46	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u47	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Yes, we must recognise that we are facing an important day, as Mrs Lastra said, as important as that of May, when the proposal from the Catalan Parliament to decriminalise euthanasia was admitted to the process and, thanks to a parliamentary majority, opened the door to the hope of many people in this country. But we cannot agree with some assertions. Euthanasia has been debated up to eighteen times in this House. We can proudly say that the majority has come from this parliamentary group, before United Left and now United We Can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, and also from Catalan groups. Only in this legislature is the fifth time that we are going to debate euthanasia, and we are happy, we are glad that at last you have decided to join that hope of many people, because when we presented it a year ago we did not come out for you, for the socialist vote. This is good news. In this country the right to euthanasia has been conquered on the street, like all the rights that have arrived, which were conquered by people who fought, organized and left until they were able to be heard; people like Luis Montes, quoted above, object of persecution, harassment, lies and complaints. As they did not stop, we do now have these debates. A proposal that decriminalizes euthanasia - the proposal that came from the Catalan Parliament - was accepted and today we are going to debate a broader law to regulate this right. It has also become clear that in the House there is decriminalization and consensus on the need to address palliative care, of course, but the problem is that palliative care has limits - and we have discussed it, citizens - and they cannot always help the sick and the sick. There will be those who do not believe or want to decide freely on the end of their lives, and it is respectable, what would not be respectable or fair is that they decided on the end of the lives of others. If pain, suffering and disease are lived individually, please, individually let those who suffer, who know when they want to stop living by dying, to say it in some way. We believe that this freedom must be guaranteed, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. That is why, obviously, we will vote in favour of this bill, to regulate euthanasia, to regulate it in such a way that it goes beyond its decriminalization. That is why we tabled a proposal months ago with a very complete structure, although you said that not so much; a structure that emerged from a broad and professional working group, as you were also pointing out, and that should be more complete than you said, because much of your structure and the substance of our proposal is in the proposed law that the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings today. For this reason, among other reasons, we cannot oppose at all. In spite of that, we find dissensions. The first difference is that we believe that the guiding principle of euthanasia is not suffering; the guiding principle must really be free will, autonomy. Euthanasia has to be regulated with guarantees for patients and with guarantees for those who have to exercise it, but mainly based on autonomy. It is not a competition to see who suffers more or who has a worse situation. This is the moment when someone says: I can't anymore and on the way I stay. We believe that this could have been better collected and we will improve it through our amendments. Nor do we fully understand the previous control they intend to do. There are guarantees set out in your bill - which were also in ours - regarding two medical teams to study the petition, a minimum period passed between informed, conscious and free petitions and also in what is contained in the vital will. We do not understand previous control - nor are there in countries in our environment - and we will put forward the appropriate amendments. To conclude, I would like to point out some of the things that the fellow citizens have said about the approaches that at the time led them to reject our proposal for a law and that seem curious to me. Mr. Villar's Chamber said of our proposal of law that it fell into errors in the delimitation of the fact of psychic suffering that the patient considers intolerable. However, it is reflected in its proposal for a law, in the amendment to article 143.4. I was talking about the relevant guarantee element and the presence of witnesses, but you have exactly the same structure and the same way of proceeding with the application requirements as ours. He also said that the doctor's specialty was not established, that there was no general psychological procedure or that there were deficiencies in conscientious objection. All these questions, as well or as poorly resolved as in the proposal for a law that we put forward, are reflected in their own proposal for a law. But we are not going to make any career; we are left with statements made by his senator, María Carcedo, in a media outlet presenting the record of the bill's proposal. He said that in the bill of the Socialist Parliamentary Group the situation of Sampedro would be regulated. Among other things, that is why we are going to vote in favour, because this bill seems to us to be a magnificent starting point and we are committed to working on it. This may be the law of Ramón Sampedro, Immaculate Echevarría, Luis de Marcos, Marcela Padrón or José Antonio Arrabal. They died badly, waiting for a law of euthanasia that did not arrive and that did not arrive before they could see it. The best tribute we can do is to make this law the law that the society that suffers and to which we cannot turn our backs needs. We've wasted enough time. In our group you will find a firm ally in the defense of the right to die worthily or, as Luis Montes would say in a beautiful way, in the defense of being free until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u48	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u49	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are talking about euthanasia in this House. Mrs Lastra, when she introduced the initiative, she was talking about an important day, because it is a day of progress in achieving rights. Well, for me, Mrs. Lastra, it's a sad day. I tell you with sadness, because for me to talk about euthanasia is to talk about professional and social failure in the face of illness and death. To legislate euthanasia is to recognize a political, professional, medical and social defeat towards a sick person. You said that you were thinking of extreme cases, but to those extreme cases the only solution we give them is death, to facilitate them or to give them death. It is a failure of society that we are not able to offer these people another way out than to die; it is a failure, Mrs Lastra, I tell you with sadness, not because I do not like it or because I want to reject your law, which is what we are going to do, not give you our favorable vote, but because we feel sad and refuse to believe that this is the only solution that we can give to these extreme cases. [[Applauds]] If we now give that solution - death - to those extreme cases, today are few, but tomorrow, when we have on the table another hundred more cases for which we have no solution? Are we going to kill them too? And then, when there's another hundred, will we also tell them that their only solution is death? And the next, and the next, and the next, until these extreme cases, this exceptionality becomes much more widespread? That's a tremendous risk we take when we talk about these things. Look what can happen. Today you present us with a rule in which very specific cases are foreseen, with very strict controls and with guarantees - you have said it and it is true, your law has control... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u51	..., your law has guarantees - but over time they will be more cases, you will lose that exceptionality and you will become much more habitual, you can even present yourself as a solution that has advantages, advantages because it may seem like a faster, simpler, more effective, more painless solution. Then the patient may think: I will claim a right to a sweet death. Your doctor may say: It is a solution that requires less effort. And I don't even tell the health manager anymore, because he can think: It's a much cheaper solution. With this, euthanasia will gain ground for palliative care, and the professional who voluntarily applies euthanasia will find it almost impossible to refuse to apply it unintentionally, with which euthanasia will gradually gain ground for medicine. That has happened in countries where euthanasia has been regulated, ladies and gentlemen, and it is precisely the risk of the sliding slope, a very dangerous slope. The Netherlands is one of the countries that is often used as an example of regulation. In the Netherlands as early as 1990 the reports that were issued analyzing the situation regarding the application of euthanasia showed that there were a thousand cases, a thousand deaths per year involuntary, that is, euthanasia without consent, and that risk lies in the application of euthanasia, that is the risk that we in the People's Parliamentary Group see and appreciate. His proposal contains arguments that support his initiative. Well, they're talking about social demand, and I guess they'll do that based on surveys that ask society or citizens what they think. I have also spoken to many people about euthanasia and some of their answers have been: well, at certain times, depending on the situation, in case of suffering, etc.; but when you ask them to explain a little more, they tell you that, when that time, they want to have information, they want to be well informed with a vocabulary that they understand, they want to know their diagnosis, they want to know the possible treatments, they want to know the consequences of treatments, the negative and positive consequences, they want to decide with the doctor and the professional what those treatments are going to be, they want to accept or reject treatment or to end at a certain time a treatment that has already been started, they want to pass that treatment without suffering and pain and they want to pass it with their loved ones and their families. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, is being dealt with in the law on the rights and guarantees of dignified death, the law that Citizens brought to this House. That's what we're working on. Bringing a law of euthanasia without passing the law of guarantees and rights of the final process of life is partly irresponsible, because we all know that when there is a network of palliative care implemented, sufficiently funded and fulfilled, the demands of euthanasia fall exponentially. We also know that in the few countries where euthanasia has been regulated, investment in palliative care and pain treatment is staggeringly falling, with which it has some irresponsibility to pretend to apply this rule before the completion of the procedure of the law presented by Citizens. That is why, Mr Igea, I am surprised that the Citizens' Group - I am not going to customize it in you, because you know how much I appreciate you - will support this initiative when so far your position has been abstention. This highlights their position; they have decided to stop being profiled and to take a position on this rule, something that is appreciated, as we will know exactly what their parliamentary group thinks. So far we were made to believe that you were the center, but to be the center you have to be centered, ladies and gentlemen, centered, and today you have decided not to be centered on this norm. [[Applauds]] There is also talk of autonomy or freedom. Both Mr. Salvador, whose words I can only subscribe to, and other groups, have said so, including the spokesman for Unidad-Postos. If really the core of the argument is freedom, why only in these cases can euthanasia be asked? why can that right to die to which you refer not be extended to other citizens? In the end, you forget, as always, the social dimension of euthanasia. Personal autonomy and freedom are not absolute. I said that in one of my first interventions. That right to die creates an obligation to kill and, in addition, to professionals, whose code of ethics states that the doctor will never provoke... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u52	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u53	... intentionally the death of no patient, not even in the case of an express request. Ladies and gentlemen, medical ethics, already since Hippocrates, focuses on eliminating pain and suffering, but never eliminating the patient. In early May, when we talked about the initiative that came from the Catalan Parliament, I asked them if they had asked the professionals about the fact that with a law of euthanasia they would have to manage and cause the death of the patients. I do not know whether they have done it or not, but on 21 May the College Medical Organization issued a statement absolutely against euthanasia, which is a rule that can be born with the opposition of these people, who are the ones who have to carry it out. I'm done, Madam President. I don't want to go any further. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly be left alone, as in some other votes, but we do not care. We will not tire of saying that the right to euthanasia is not a right that appears in the Constitution or that appears in any of the international conventions. I'm doing a final reflection, President. I think it's good to recognize a social good in protecting life to the end. The culture of protecting the sick is a great inheritance that we can leave our children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u55	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on empowering the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate to respond to the evolution of the labour market. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Villalobos Talero has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, I have come to present an initiative by my parliamentary group on an issue which I believe has been very important to the Government of Mariano Rajoy and, in particular, to the Minister of Employment, Fatima Báñez, such as the control of social security fraud and irregular employment. The data are very enlightening and show the concern that this Government has had in this area since 2012. In particular, 535,810 irregular jobs have emerged. 7119 fictitious companies have been detected. The conversion of 362 443 unduly temporary contracts into indefinite contracts has been achieved, with an overall impact of EUR 21.7 billion. This is the reality of what the work of the Labour Inspectorate in the Government of Mariano Rajoy has meant during these years. However, new situations have arisen which, from the point of view of this group, we have to deal with, and that is all that the industrial revolution 4.0 means, new jobs, collaborative enterprises, the situation of certain sectors which, through Internet networks, have created companies which, in turn, have created very serious problems in the labour market with regard to the protection of workers. Therefore, the ministry has also devoted special attention to this type of business and to its control. In fact, if we look at the data of the INE, as far as the companies trade is concerned, we find - and I quite agree with the data that ATA provided - some 350 000 companies that exist in this country, many of which, in some ways, conceal an irregular employment relationship in order to be able to work. There is no doubt that this requires control by the Labour Inspectorate. In fact, from 2012 to March 2018 there have been 19,523 actions for the control of this type of fraud of self-employed fakes, with an amount of 54,132 million, of which 8772 irregular jobs appeared as self-employed fakes. But beyond the data on what has happened, there is no doubt that we have an obligation to deal with that new reality. The Workers' Statute, despite the changes that we have been making over these forty years of democracy, continues to be viewed as overly stable and overly clear in what labour relations mean, but we have to deal with this new reality. How? Frankly, at the beginning of my initiative I said that the Labour Inspectorate would continue to follow the steps of new inspections, but I have been presented with amendments by a number of groups, in particular the PDECAT and Citizens, who have made me reflect on whether it is time for us to enter resolutely to solve the real problem of these kinds of jobs. Is it simply necessary for us to say that the Labour Inspectorate continues to function properly to control these kinds of businesses and these self-employed fakes? Perhaps the parliamentary group supporting the Government today would like this very much, but the reality is that we have to deal with this situation necessarily. In fact, the plan of the 2018-2020 Labour Inspectorate places a very important emphasis on control, but on what is the labour inspection, i.e. on the application of the existing standard. But this is not solving the problem, because it is not solved in the whole of Europe either; in fact, there are contradictory resolutions in France, the United Kingdom and other countries. At the moment, in the European Union, the Commission is examining the possibility of renewing the directive. Why? Because it no longer fits that new reality. But that is not only happening in Europe as a whole, it is that here, in Spain, we are also concerned about these issues. The new president of the government - who, of course, the revolution of the memberate is what he might like most - when there is something being done gives him a new name. And I have to admit that socialists are teachers for that. Transform reality so that it looks like it just happened to them and they're going to solve the problem definitely do it like no one else. In fact, in this interview on Sunday in El País, a newspaper that is not suspicious for socialists, Mr. President - who, by the way, has a bit of cane here, which soon came out of the cane to Mr. President of the Government!, but come on, he's handsome - says: We will approve a plan against labour exploitation. [[shows a photocopy of an article from El País]] After all, this is the plan of the Labour Inspectorate. But I want to go a lot further than Mr. Sanchez wants to go. I understand that for the Minister of Labour it is a problem, a problem that you will defend by saying that you do not have enough majority, which is radically false, because you had a very important majority for Mr Sánchez to be President of the Government and she is Minister of Labour; I wish you, for the good of all, a lot of luck. I firmly believe that the Socialist Party wants us to approve it here so that it really is a master plan against labour exploitation and that Mr Sánchez can place a medal, because my poor few medals will be able to place themselves in the time we are in. I believe that it is the duty of this House to take action, and those measures have to do with the amendment of the PDECAT, which seems to me to be a very reasoned amendment and which says: To provide the Labour Inspectorate with greater financial, technical and personnel resources so that it can meet all these needs. There is another very important citizen's amendment which is abundant in this area, also specifying something which I think is very important. I've been a supporter of social dialogue forever. It seems to me to be a fundamental axis and I am very glad that in the end wage increases have been achieved in collective bargaining; this has not been done in the fifteen days that Mr Sánchez has been President, this has been negotiating for a year and a year, because these things require his time. This goes the same way, so it will have to be negotiated in the social dialogue, with the unions and with the employer, who in the end are the ones who have to apply it. I absolutely agree with the citizens that within this social dialogue we are looking for formulas that we can examine here in Parliament on how to solve the problem of these new jobs, because as much as we give the Labour Inspectorate and end up with many irregular jobs and many bogus self-employed people, let us not be fooled, these companies will continue to operate, and if they cannot function, they will close down, which will lose all the citizens. This is therefore an issue that needs to be addressed in the area of social dialogue and with the autonomous communities. In this sense, Mr Sánchez could be a little more generous. He says these things are being done in the Balearics. And in the Canary Islands, and in the Valencian Community, and in Murcia, and in Andalusia. Of course, Mr Sánchez talks about Andalusia and Mrs Susana Díaz should put her hair as scarves, but the reality is that this is being done by all the autonomous communities, because it is something that has already been signed with the previous government. I therefore believe that it is time to develop something that concerns Mr Sánchez as much as labour exploitation, and that we are able, through social dialogue and with sufficient means, to bring to this House a solution that we can discuss in the Committee on Employment in order to solve this problem definitively. Madam President, we will present the compromise amendment when it is negotiated with the authors of the amendments, which I think are very reasonable, and I hope, for the benefit of the workers, for the sake of all labour rights, that the whole of the left will also support it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u57	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Group, through Mrs Villalobos, is planning an initiative that urges the Government to deepen and strengthen the Labour Inspectorate in order to enforce workers' rights and strengthen our social security system, both of which we agree with and which have an impact on a subject that this year has launched the Strategic Plan of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate 2018-2020 and also the state agency Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. [[The Lord]] For the Forum, it is very important that the gradual creation of jobs is also accompanied by means and resources to promote surveillance and control in the implementation of measures to tackle fraud, wage inequality, irregular employment, the submerged economy, exploitation and escalation of labour sinestrality. In this line, and since the explanatory statement is part of the Industrial Revolution 4.0, I have formulated an addendum amendment to promote the labour culture, with an integrated approach to prevention that addresses safety, health and well-being at work, taking into account also the new challenges posed by the so-called Industrial Safety 4.0. We believe that it is imperative that the Government should not deviate from objectives that are precisely of particular importance in the prevention of occupational risks, also in the face of new jobs. Let me point out, in any case, that last year in Asturias one of the worst results was achieved in Spain as a whole as a consequence of precariousness, which was reflected in an annual incidence above 40% of the increase in occupational injuries in which there were deaths or significant consequences for the health of workers. It is therefore inexcusable to encourage preventive measures linked to training and to the requirement to comply with the rules of prevention, without adding bureaucratic and administrative burden to the business sphere, which is already very suffocated by endless paperwork. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Villalobos has defended this non-legislative proposal which aims to enhance the action of the Labour Inspectorate in the face of the evolution of the labour market and both in the explanatory statement of her initiative and in her own intervention has insisted on some of these challenges and very singularly in the reference to the so-called digital platforms. The amendment advocated by the Citizens' Group also places emphasis on this issue. I would like to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that in December last year a non-legislative proposal was adopted in the Employment Committee on a proposal from the Democratic Party urging the Government to submit a report on this subject before the end of this session. It is no longer up to Mrs Báñez - now up to the Socialist Party in the government - but it is clear that there is a parliamentary mandate, which is explicit in the need to consider what measures should be taken in this area to ensure the legal certainty that digital platforms do not have today. That multitude of contradictory rulings and that pending regulation are causing concern in the entrepreneurs who have launched these initiatives and also, logically, concern in those collaborators and workers of digital platforms who do not have the guarantees of social security that are payable and therefore we need to update this matter. Secondly, in the debate on the Labour Inspectorate - Mrs Villalobos reminded us about our amendment - the important thing for us is that the Labour Inspectorate has the means to act, an adequate work framework and the appropriate means to carry out its work. I would like to remind you that of the 854 new inspectors and sub-inspectors most of whom are still under discussion, because the inspectors and sub-inspectors who approved the oppositions for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 are still awaiting incorporation. There is one problem: it takes about two years for an inspector or sub-inspector to join his or her actual job. This greatly hinders the policy of strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, which in this area is indisputable. We are awaiting, Mr President, the concrete text that Mrs Villalobos can offer us. If the text responds to our amendment, it will naturally count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We, as Mrs Villalobos has rightly said, have tabled an amendment to this initiative, more than anything to clarify its proposed part, because the initiative says some things in which we agree and with others, especially on the part of the explanatory statement, we are not at all. If we talk about the purpose part, they'll find us there. We are also in favour of continuing to work in the field of the Labour Inspectorate to make the labour market fairer, and what happens is that we are surprised by one thing, and it is you, who have ruled until just under a month ago, who are talking about empowering the Labour Inspectorate. Why haven't they done so far? [[Applauds]] You, during the absolute majority government, had the opportunity to turn around the inspection system, to modernize it, to adapt it to the new times with the adoption of the Computer Inspection Act of 2015 and its statutory development less than two months ago. You have had the opportunity to take care of what we already have, that is to say, our officials; you have had the opportunity to recognize their efforts, the efforts of highly qualified officials, who have been suffering with important responsibilities for years, the progressive deterioration of their salaries, and you have not; you have had the opportunity to give them a professional career that is so far non-existent, which is a real handicap for them, and neither have you; in fact, the subinspectors are now organizing themselves to demand improvements that are fair, because what you have done, rather than improving their conditions, instead of listening to them, is to give them more skills, to give them more work, and yet do not increase their salaries, because that is another: neither have you taken the opportunity to increase the material and human means of which you spoke to us. In fact, the autonomous Labour Inspectorate was born addicted, since the law specifically stipulated in additional provisions that its creation would not entail an increase in public expenditure. And if we talk about increasing templates, as you say in the motif exhibition, the numbers sing too. When you took the reins - we talk about the year 2012 - the number of civil servants in active employment was 1871; in May 2018 the number of civil servants amounted to 1890; that is, a net increase of 19 civil servants in six years. In fact, your Government has been failing to meet the replacement rate of inspectors since 2014 and has left us with a system where the ratio of inspectors per employee is far from European Union agencies, in fact the average in Spain is one inspector per 15,000 employees, while in the European Union the ratio is one inspector per 7300 employees. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let alone fill your mouth with empty initiatives of content when you are in opposition and more real policies when you are in government. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, if we are talking about the explanatory statement, as you said very well, we have tabled an amendment because the statement has a certain stigmatisation of the technological and digital transformation of our economy, while we believe that this is not the problem, but the problem is that the employment that is being created in Spain, which we have been creating for years, is precarious employment. We do not believe at all that the abuse of temporality, the problem of false autonomy, the fact that it does not turn into temporary and indefinite contracts is a problem for digital platforms. The problem comes from a model of obsolete labour relations fed for years by bipartisanism in which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and you ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, with your policies of looking to the past are the culprits that the digital economy is passing us over and we are not being able to adapt. The new reality is that this digital economy is breaking the seams of our economic-laboral regulations, and here they are wrong if they believe that we are going to solve this with more inspection or letting the problem get over with the courts. The solution starts from identifying the necessary reforms in order to bring our existing labour legislation, both on its own and on behalf of others, into line with the challenges posed by technological changes both in our productive model and in our model of labour relations. The solution starts from being courageous, from dealing with changes with hope or, rather, from hope, from the point of view of digitizing from the prism of new opportunities for wealth creation and job creation, and not as a problem. And for this it is essential to analyze the effects that these changes are having and to adapt our rules so that, on the one hand, we ensure that the sector has the necessary legal certainty and flexibility to operate and develop; and, on the other, we are able to guarantee the necessary social protection of the people involved in these activities regardless of the work they do. And in that direction, Mrs Villalobos, our amendments are going and in that direction have also gone the proposals that we have been advocating in this House since the Law on Urgent Measures for Self-Employment, since the reform of the RETA to solve the problems of self-employment, as well as the Law on the fight against precariousness and above all that protection falls on the worker rather than on the job. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP - and this is also true of the Socialist Party - the truth is that I have few more signs of impotence than bringing forward proposals for a law on quality in employment in Spain after having ruled six and a half years, four of them with an absolute majority; and more so when their legacy as a government on this subject is to be placed again at the head of Europe in precariousness. And I say that this also applies to the PSOE because in its case we talk about even more years of government and the same levels of precariousness and unemployment. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, share the same model of failed labour relations as you made clear to us last week by voting with populists and independenceists against a modern, European and fair working system with the workers. We know that we can expect very little from you, but do not worry, if you prefer to insist on the mistakes of the past, it will be us, when we govern, who will guarantee the rights of all workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u64	Yes, Mr. President, I will do it from my seat more briefly. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u65	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u66	Says the part... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u67	Wait a minute, Mr. Barandiaran. I beg your silence. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u68	It says the proposed part of the non-law proposal that the Government is urged to continue working in the area of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in order to achieve a fairer labour market and to curb the conduct that violates the rights of workers and our social security system. This mandate, of course, would serve any Government that did not want any criticism, and it was thus made in the bill when it effectively ruled the People's Party. Maintaining it now, directed at the other side, at that of the Socialist Party, did not seem to make much sense, but at the end of the day it is there. The mandates are very generic. That of: continuing to work with the Labour Inspectorate, achieving a fairer labour market, attacking conduct that violates workers' rights and Social Security is so generic that we do not know exactly what it can serve. It is true that Mrs Villalobos has made it clear to us that she seems to have negotiated some part of her proposal so that it could be improved, but the shortcomings with respect to which the Labour Inspectorate can and should intervene are not only the product of a particular collaborative economy that is currently developing worrying forms, but also the result of certain consequences of the labour reform that were installed at the time, and we must continue to monitor - or start in some cases - in order to be able to tackle them as well. In any case, it is such a benevolent and well-intentioned proposition that we will not be able to oppose it, but it does not seem appropriate to us to have even raised it in this Congress and addressed that bench. [[Noting the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Barandiaran. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u70	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. The non-legislative proposal states that digital platforms can make an important contribution to employment and growth if they are developed in a responsible manner. Well, it is not discussed that the digital platforms in question can contribute to economic growth or development, but so far in no case employment, as far as we know. These platforms base their business model on the provision of services by self-employed workers, who sometimes constitute the figure of the false self-employed and therefore not only do they not create employment for others but they destroy or precarious it, so under no circumstances can we accept that they are said to contribute to the creation of responsible employment. On the other hand, the non-law proposal refers to the fact that, in addition, the Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened by incorporating 845 new inspectors and sub-inspectors since 2012. This statement, truth, I haven't found it anywhere. It may be that, as Comrade Campuzano said, they are people who have not yet joined their workplace. What I have been able to do is go to the website where the annual report of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate is hung, and there is a series that goes from 2009 to 2016 and contains the following figures: in 2009, adding inspectors and subinspectors, there were 1798; in 2012, 1871; and in 2016 - when we have the latest official data - there are 1797 in total. I would say that in the whole series from 2009 to 2016, we are in the lowest number of Labour inspectors and subcontractors, according to the official page and the resources of the system. The resources are insufficient, as in the Kingdom of Spain there are not even 2,000 personnel between inspectors and sub-inspectors, according to the latest figures provided in 2016; a clearly deficit figure compared to the more than 3 million companies that exist throughout the State. Finally, the non-legislative proposal itself states the following: The Congress of Deputies urges the Government to continue working in the area of Labour and Social Security Inspection to achieve a fairer labour market. Right, we're not going to say no, but we can't vote in favour for the following reason. We believe that what can not be forgotten are the deficits currently suffered by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, so we believe that what we should say in order for us to vote in favour is that the Congress of Deputies urges the Government to provide greater technical and human resources and to provide an adequate labour legislative framework - which is not so today - so that the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate is a useful tool for achieving fairer labour relations and for curbing the conduct that violates the rights of workers and our social security system. As regards the appropriate legislative framework for work to which you refer, without going any further, we are referring to proposals currently in the Congress of Deputies, such as the need to establish the legal obligation to register working hours in all types of contracts, then amending Articles 34 and 35 of the Workers' Statute; also the elimination of the application priority of collective agreements of companies in relation to this sector which establishes the labour reform of 2012 would be necessary to amend Article 84.2 of the Workers' Statute. Another legislative amendment that would improve performance would be to specify in the rule the limits between illegal assignment and subcontracting of works and services - i.e. to outline articles 42 and 43 of the Workers' Statute - and in a similar sense it would also be positive for the Labour Inspectorate to amend article 44 of the Workers' Statute, concerning the succession of undertakings, in order to ensure that when there is a change in subcontracting of intangible services in which the main asset is the labour force, workers are effectively subrogated. Finally, it would also facilitate the work of the inspector to amend article 15 of the Workers'Statute to the effect that the contract of employment and service should not be used as a contractual modality for workers who provide services in subcontracted undertakings for the performance of any work or service, a possibility which is currently supported by case law. In short, much more effective work is needed and the Labour Inspectorate cannot amend what we have not done well in the current labour legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u72	Today is a historic day, sadly historic for many working people and not obviously for this GNP. It is particularly so for working people in the Canary Islands. The political and economic elites of the country and the islands have just announced that they have agreed to close the dean oil factory in our country: hundreds of families will be displaced and hundreds more will be left on the street. I'd love to be down there with my classmates today. This is the factory where I worked - where I work because I am in surplus - but I have the honor and the enormous responsibility to be here today as a congressman and as a proud job spokesman for my parliamentary group. Why do I say I have the huge responsibility? Because the reality that we have in the country is this: 4.2 million people have a temporary contract, 27.5 % of the total; 2.7 million people have a part-time contract, mostly women, 14.6 % of the total; 9.10 % of the employment contracts that are signed are temporary; since 2012 the number of accidents at work, i.e. in which we, the workers, die, has increased by 12 % and the casualties - which, by the way, are increasingly long - have increased by 5 %; the wage gap between men and women in our country is 17.3 % according to Eurostat; 53.7 % of overtime, i.e. more than half of the overtime worked in our country, were not registered and many of them, of course, not even paid, according to the EPA. To this must be added the abuses in subcontracting, the false cooperatives, the false autonomous ones and the terrible reality of the sectors where semi-slavery feels very close, where labor law is a utopia, as is the case of the agricultural workers that my colleague Diego well defined. While this is the case, the Labour Inspectorate has 21.6% less budget allocation than in 2009. In Spain there is one professional from the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate for every 15 000 workers, while in Europe the proportion is one for every 7300, more than double. With this context, with this data and with this reality from day to day, the People's Party has the nerve to bring us an initiative to highlight what has been done so far and continue along the same path, and above it is not even colored. Labour reforms and cuts in the Labour Inspectorate's budget have more than met its goal: on the one hand, to systematically lower wages and, on the other, to put the feeling that everything is worth it in our country's labour relations. In companies born in the heat of digital advancement this reality is even more bloody. We have been saying this for a long time: after this collaborative economy - in quotes - after this supposedly liquid and virtual relationship between equals - in quotes - a new form of employment is hidden completely excluded from the scope of the labour law, undermining rights of all kinds and the social protection of these workers and, of course, looting social security contributions. However, we are no longer here for more toast to the sun. We have seen how the digital platforms are spreading across our city quickly: Uber, Cabify, Deliveroo, Glovo and so on; some even have the little shame of denouncing us and everything. It is a reality sufficiently complex as to the nature of the labour force of that relationship for the Labour Inspectorate under the People's Party Government to have acted ex officio a long time ago. The Socialist Party is aware of its task. As always, it had to be not a government or any institution, but organized people who put on the public agenda and denounce this situation. The strike of the riders, the distributors of one of these companies and the denunciation of these workers led the Labour Inspectorate to assess the work and the reality of fraud in the recruitment of this sector. We are accused of technophobes, of antiquated, of disregarding progress and modernity. That's absurd and stalking. Working people do not hate technology, on the contrary, welcome whether it diminishes the human labor needed to do a task, to generate wealth. What we do hate is that they scam us, steal our money, our health and our life and humiliate us by saying that charging 4 euros per order, without contract, without vacation, without casualties and without Social Security is the most modern thing there is. And it is also that this not only affects the workers directly involved, the truce of the cake is that many of these companies use dubious ethical tax engineering to evade taxes and, of course, evade social security contributions, putting the present and future of our public pension system at risk. There is an urgent need to establish minimum standards of protection and control over the new realities of the labour market, such as false self-employment, outsourcing of non-domestic contracts, the development of multi-service companies and digital platform-based companies, which, together with deregulation of sectoral collective bargaining, cause the suffering and uncertainty - I repeat, the suffering and uncertainty - of many working people in this country. Because they will call us associates, they will call us collaborators, they will call us activated, but those are euphemisms that cannot hide reality: that they are workers, that there is a labor relationship and therefore they deserve to enjoy the same rights as the rest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u74	Good afternoon. My group will support this initiative simply to express from here our commitment to all citizens to regain the Labour Inspectorate and to truly serve as an agency for the defence of workers' rights. I would like to recall, on the basis of the data given to us by Mrs Celia, how the Labour Inspectorate worked during the years of the People's Party government. The Government of the People's Party has implied an absolute abandonment of the Labour Inspectorate, not only because of the issue of uncovered places, the lack of the establishment of means, but also because of the lack of political will of the Government of the People's Party to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate has as its objective what it should have, which is to ensure decent work. The Labour Inspectorate has served the People's Party Government in its employment data policies. I simply recall the data she has cited: lack of discharge, changes in contracts, no other reference to issues that I will then talk about. Our Government's intention is to turn the Labour Inspectorate into an essential instrument of a plan to combat labour exploitation. Our idea is that the Labour Inspectorate is not the job inspection and the name change of our ministry is not baladi. We are not the Ministry of Employment, we are the Ministry of Labour. Our idea is that the Labour Inspectorate is the body that will achieve a fairer society. The PP, despite this initiative, has systematically deteriorated with its management the Labour Inspectorate. Why? Because he has deprived you of any mechanism to fight for a decent job. And I'll just give you a few examples, I could give you more, but I don't have that much time. First, the Labour Inspectorate during the People's Party Government has had an almost exclusive destination to emerge from submerged employment. It has dedicated all its officials, both inspectors and sub-inspectors, to campaigns of submerged economy. For what? To continue handling your job creation data. It has abandoned proceedings concerning working hours, wages, labour stability and equality. We have not seen in these years either campaigns or plans of objectives or technical criteria or guides to adapt the work of the Labour Inspectorate to the new realities, to multi-service enterprises, to false cooperatives, to the excess of false autonomy and to digital platforms. These realities, not only digital platforms, are the ones that have absolutely damaged the rights of workers, those that have led to a flight from labour law and those that must now, and now, become a priority objective of inspection. They have not been able to adapt the management of the Labour Inspectorate to the new channels of exploitation to which temporaryity has given rise. It is no longer so much the transformation of temporary contracts, it is that we now have contracts of hours, days, highs and lows not to pay for the weekends and the inspection activity, with you, has not given rise to the control of all these situations, not allowed, of course, by our article 15 of the Workers' Statute. With regard to the wage gap, the Labour Inspectorate's actions have not yielded results in the control of the wage gap. In fact, according to a data you have provided yourself, only 0.1 % of the conduct of the inspection proceedings has been linked to the control of discrimination. In addition, they have had no involvement in annual campaigns to combat labour injury. They never talk about that data. Prevention, which was always a key subject in the Labour Inspectorate, has been virtually forgotten for you, always resorting to sinisterity ratios. And I remind you of the ratios. In 2017 there were 618 fatal accidents, in 2018 the figure seems to follow this trend and work accidents have systematically increased. The Government - I say - has had no interest in this issue and so on with many other aspects that have made the Labour Inspectorate fail to fulfil its role, which is to protect the rights of workers, sometimes because it is impossible to act because of their labour reform and sometimes because they have not been given the tools to approve those situations of fraud and non-compliance. Our group, our Government, does not want a police inspection, it does not want a statistical data inspection, it wants a quality inspection, an inspection that improves the lives of workers and an inspection that is capable of fulfilling the obligations that labour law, which is important to us, hence the change of name of our ministry, has for workers. We want an inspection that has an adequate legal framework to be able to act, that goes ahead with the new realities, that protects the most vulnerable workers and we want to stop that flight from the right to work. That is why we here in this House have already presented the legal reforms that we believe are appropriate in order to guarantee this situation: the amendment of Article 42 on subcontracting, the amendment of Article 34 to give an instrument to check overwork such as the registration and the proposed law to guarantee equal work and pay. All this within the framework of a labour exploitation plan, from which we do want the labour inspection to be strengthened and to serve to guarantee the rights of workers in a working environment which, both because of the successive reforms of the Workers' Statute and because of the new business management formulas that have emerged and because of the inadequate interpretation of certain articles such as the one referring to fixed-term contracts, has now made employment precarious, with poor workers and without rights. We support this initiative to, I repeat, show our commitment to ensuring that inspection is the body that defends workers' rights and the recovery of labour law as a right in which our group believes together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Frutos. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Villalobos whether her group accepts any of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u76	Mr President, we have negotiated a compromise with the three groups that have tabled amendments and we are going to bring it up to the services of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u77	All right, thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE IMPLOYMENT OF THE SINGLE HEALTH TARJET AND THE PROGRESS OF THE DIGITAL CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM. [[File number 162/000255]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u78	We turn to the next item on the agenda, a non-legislative proposal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the implementation of the single health card and the advancement of the digital medical history of the National Health System. Mr Igea Arisqueta has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we come here again to talk about a subject in which we are quite recurrent, to talk about equality, about Spain about the free and equal, and to talk about the single health card but also about a few more things that we have added in our self-amendment. You will say that why we have tabled a self-amendment. We have done so because the circumstances have changed and because we have very good news, such as this : Our minister says that her road map is the 1986 Act. [[shows a press headline]] We can't agree more. What does the 1986 General Health Act say? Article 3 states that Spaniards shall have the right to access to health benefits on conditions of effective equality. And in its article 3.3, it says that the system will be geared towards correcting territorial inequalities. We cannot agree more, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Is this the case in our country? Since we brought out the news of this initiative on social media and on Twitter, I have asked for some examples. There are hundreds of examples of people who have a thrombosis in a hospital that is not from their autonomous community and who want to go to another one in order not to make the payment; of people who cannot go to the gynecologist when on vacation; of people who cannot move to their birth community because he is a patient on dialysis and does not have dialysis on his land, so he cannot go back there... All of these are real examples of inequality and difficulty in accessing benefits. All of these are examples of gross non-compliance with the General Health Act 1986. The question, gentlemen, is where that PSOE was left. Are you the same Spanish Socialist Workers Party of 1986, the PSOE that believed in this General Health Law, or are you the PSOE of plurinationalities, the Socialist Party that speaks bilaterally with one another and multilaterally with another, the Socialist Party that allows inequality between the Spanish? [[Applauds]] As we have seen throughout this afternoon, we are unequal to live and also to die. The clinical history project is an ancient project. It's not a new project, it's a 2011 project and it should have been completed in 2013. I have to tell you that you have made much more progress in the last two years than in all the previous years, but despite having made progress in the last two years, there are still communities that do not provide your data to the common clinical history project, such as the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. It must be that there is first the flag or other interests than the fact that Catalan citizens can be cared for correctly and safely within the rest of Spanish territory. That must be it. Flag and the right to autonomy must be more important than health. It is necessary to finish this project and it is necessary that all Spaniards be stopped from being called once and for all displaced when they are inside their country. There are no displaced Spaniards in your country. [[Applauds]] That is why we want to move towards free choice of hospital and free health movement within the country with equal rights. And in order to achieve the principles that govern the General Health Law, which our minister likes so much, we will have to make sure that the benefits are also equal. In this country when a child is born is already unequal. There are autonomous communities where the heel test includes twenty-five congenital and metabolic diseases, but in other communities the heel test only includes seven diseases. From the moment of birth the Spaniards are already unequal for the health system and this is not tolerable. For this reason, in our non-legislative proposal we propose to this House that it insist on having a single portfolio of health services, that the benefits be equal for any Spanish regardless of where it is born or where it resides, that they be updated for that purpose every six months and that all the benefits that are introduced into an autonomous community, automatically be introduced into the rest if they have been validated by a technology assessment agency. We have proposed this repeatedly and repeatedly, and we have found ourselves alone in the defence of equality. But we don't care, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos. We will remain in the defense of equality, whatever it costs. And to be equal it is also urgent to change the Act on autonomous financing, that thing which was so urgent, Mr Fernández, so pressing with that almost impertinent claim of the convening of an interterritorial council to talk about financing. All of a sudden, the funding's gone. We have to wait another two years after the election. If there is no equal funding, there will be no equal services. While in some communities 1700 euros per inhabitant are spent and in another 1000 euros per inhabitant there will be no equal benefits. I do not know if the left of this country has definitively abandoned the flag of equality, but we will soon see it. Finally, I would also like to talk to you about effective equality in co-payment benefits. On the copayo the important thing is to know if the Spaniards are unequal not only for their region, but also for their purchasing capacity. [[Rumors]] I understand that some Members do not care about the situation of low-income workers, but I think they would like to be heard. In this country it has been scientifically demonstrated that it is the workers with less income who have serious problems of adherence to pharmacological treatment and reversal in 2012 and the return to the previous situation will not change anything because they will continue to pay 40% of their medication. It is the workers who pay mortgage, who have a serious illness and who also have children who are having problems with adherence. You are filled with words of co-op, solidarity and workers, but today is a good time to know whether the left of this country continues to bet on equality, on workers and on a country of free and equal. We'll continue here. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Nogueras i Camero is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Reading your initiative seems that you do not know that there is no need to unify an information system, as the new technologies today allow us to exchange information globally. So let us talk about interoperability and stop centralisation; that is what the amendment we have tabled is about. But you are still obsessed with re-centralisation and you are also passing through the arch of Catalonia. The first sentence of his proposal is already a statement of intent. And I read it: the compartmentalization of the National Health System in seventeen different health systems has led to numerous damages, blablablabla... They continue to be disturbed by diversity and are unable to positivize it. But the populist ideology of Citizens returns to the end of the document: every citizen has the right to adequate health care without being considered first or second according to the territory in which he lives. This is an insult to all health care professionals, which is precisely characterized by their equity in access. Unlike you, they've never discriminated against anyone. Moreover, the law that its partner, the People's Party, pulled forward in 2012 to exclude the undocumented from basic health care, was another attempt to destroy equity in the National Health System and, I repeat, these same ones who work hard to end equity are their partners. In spite of the burden, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the competence in health matters belongs to the autonomous communities, and in Catalonia we have well ordered information in the Siscat and a framework model to always access all health information with all ethical and legal guarantees. So, as you will understand, we are not willing to lose a quality system, and that is also being updated, by a re-centralized, rigid, retrograde system and that is further away from the model of the twenty-first century. By the way - and I finish now - the two autonomous communities with less interoperability of their information systems within the National Health System are Madrid and Andalusia, although in their initiative you most name - of course - it is Catalonia. Thanks and freedom to political prisoners.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is a parliamentary initiative to move forward with greater emphasis on the extension of the electronic prescription, the single health card and the digital medical history of the National Health System as the years pass and some of the elements of this triad are not developed throughout the national territory due to the incompatibility of the different management systems between autonomous communities. That is, recognizing the almost total implementation of the individual health card in the autonomous communities and very high in the other two cases, the digital transformation that guarantees citizens and professionals full access to the most relevant clinical documentation for the health care of each patient if they are displaced from their community of origin has yet to be achieved. However, I regret to note that the Principality of Asturias is different from the other autonomous communities with the lowest degree of development and shared documents in the common clinical history project, with only 36% of population coverage per health service. It is a fact that shows the apathy of the Asturian Government in a matter where the rest of the Spanish autonomous communities have already reached at least 90% of its implementation, except Catalonia, which is not available. Therefore, the warning of this initiative, which Mr Igea has defended, is relevant in order to correct the inequality and disparity between territories in a matter as essential as health and health care. Care processes need to have computer-based support tools and interoperable systems to facilitate the exchange of clinical information and dispensation from any pharmacy by electronic means of prescribed medication or to provide health care throughout the national territory, regardless of where the patient is located. We have not yet reached the digital leap in Spanish health management and therefore we agree to urge the Government to complete it so that the Spanish health system, also in the facet of e-health care, is a global benchmark in terms of accessibility, quality, efficiency and equality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u85	Thank you, President. Once again Citizens come here to criminalize autonomous governments, even if those governments are a guarantee of health policies, designed and made for people. In your non-law proposal you talk, for example, about the electronic recipe, but you forget that all autonomous communities have already done their homework on this issue. He talks about a unique health card, but he doesn't say that by making the existing ones compatible, it's good enough for us. He talks about digital clinical history, but he has forgotten that it is accessible in the different territories. It talks about the unique portfolio of services, but it does not name the autonomous community in which we are going to fix ourselves to begin to elaborate it; in which we are going to fix ourselves, in which it has less services or in which more? I'm sure they want to match it to the bass. He talks about the financing system, but only to re-centralize health, and he does not talk about the historical injustices that we suffer from some territories in terms of financing, as is the case with the Valencià Country. He talks about the Social Cohesion Fund, but at no time does he talk about paying the outstanding bills the State has with the autonomous communities. The autonomous communities we serve everyone, and this is something that he does not say in his proposal, come from wherever he comes from. The problem is that the State does not assume the cost of this care, which in the Valencia Country is almost 390 million euros, no more or less. He's talking about the pharmaceutical copago, but he's just palliating its effects. What needs to be done with the pharmaceutical copayo is to eliminate it, something that, by the way, we are also doing some autonomous communities. To assume universal health, to implement the electronic card, to expand the portfolio of services, to assume the cost of pharmaceutical co-payment and of health care to displaced persons, that is precisely what the Government of Botànic is doing and what is bothering you, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, as you come up here to criminalize the autonomous communities, even though we are the guarantors of health policies designed and made for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly. I'm not going to stretch out much. This GNP has two lives. Today we are dealing with a GNP which is not the GNP that was presented. What we have discussed today is a self-amendment that has been made by the proposing group. I wouldn't say it's totally different, but it does have a lot of things added. It is the famous PNL Instituto Cervantes; that is, we put one thing and then we propose another. I don't know how they haven't put on the last point calling elections, which is very typical of some of their GNP. You speak of one thing in the introductory part of the text; in the operative part of another; in the amendment you have tabled you speak of a third thing, and then you come up here and speak of another different thing. So, I don't know which one we have to stick to. But it doesn't matter because we know what they think, regardless of what they write or say. Therefore, they explain the situation as if it were in a way that is not, other companions have also said so. In the background, we know that you are looking for reality to be in a different way, but in a different way than it is. That is to say, you would certainly like to see other people in the Spanish State not treated in some autonomous communities; you would like certain health cards not to serve in the pharmacies of other places in the Spanish State, so that you can decide that this of the health competition in the hands of autonomous communities is worthless and return to the one and centralized health that depends solely and exclusively on the State, and so all happy. In their proposal they say that somehow the situation we have at the moment does not work because there is no single basis, or because there is no single health card, and because the whole epicentre from which it should operate even when transferring data should be the centre, Madrid. Look, we have tabled an amendment to you because we believe that it is obviously good for a citizen of Bilbao to be cared for in Benidorm or one of Malaga to be cared for in Vigo. It seems very good to us, fantastic; but you have done it by posing as if to do so we have to change. And no, there is no need to change; what needs to be done is that they are compatible. That is why we have proposed that, first of all, what needs to be done in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, because they are not forgotten. Secondly, we believe that in order to advance the famous extension of the electronic recipe the health card must not be unique, but compatible, the one that everyone has from their community, that it is compatible, that the data is valid for everyone, and that the digital medical history is shared, not that there is one from which the others suck. No, no, let everyone have what they have and can be shared at the necessary times. Without a doubt it has to be a network management, which means that everyone can operate, but everyone remains competent in his or her field and continues to be competent in his or her data. We believe that this was a way to be able to modify the proposal you are making. But, of course, then they come up here and start talking about another number of issues and we don't know what we have to stick to, if what they proposed on the first day, what they proposed today, or what they said here. In any case, we have presented it because we believe that if we talk about this, it can be done in the same way, without obviating the existing competences and without obviating the way in which health is currently distributed in the Spanish State. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u89	Good afternoon. Mr Igea, how little you understand the Spanish autonomous state, how little you understand about health and how much you like to repeat PNL in this House, and surely - as you did on the previous occasion - to lose them again. The initiative that you bring us is full of prejudices and falsehoods and seeks only one thing, which is the contempt of the Spanish National Health System in exchange for a handful of votes. [[Applauds]] It is enough to read the first sentence of your GNP, which Mrs Nogueras has already read to you and, therefore, I will not repeat it to you. In addition, you make an ideological speech, focusing on problems that the National Health System has and that really needs to be solved, but then the solution you propose in your original GNP is absolutely inane. That, in my village, Mr. Igea, is called horse ripped and donkey braked. Ideological speech full of prejudices to conclude with a proposal that is partial and disoriented, because neither the decentralization of the National Health System has harmed citizens - but quite the contrary - nor the problems of inequality that still exist in the National Health System will be corrected by the interoperability of information systems, which are not the fundamental problem. Its formula reminds us a lot of the formula of Ana Mato, the Minister of Health who intended to standardize the health card but was responsible for the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, which caused many people to stop being cared for in the autonomous communities; that some were fully cared for and others were charged for health care; that in some territories some pensioners paid for the co-payments and others, such as Valencia or the Basque Country, were not paid for; or that it involved the elimination of the Health Cohesion Fund, an issue that you have supported in the last two budgets, in order to prevent citizens from travelling to receive health care in the centers and referral services of the National Health System. The Spanish National Health System is one of the highlights of equity and equality both territorial and social and economic and, if not, look at the graph I teach you here This is the graph of infant mortality from 1986 to last year between autonomous communities. [[shows a graph]] Infant mortality has dropped from 9 per 1,000 live births to 2.7 last year, a reduction to less than one third. But the dispersion between autonomous communities has dropped from 7, which was the largest dispersion in 1986, to 1.3 in 2017, a reduction to less than the fifth. Therefore, this is what matters, the action of the National Health System reducing inequalities in Spain. They are wrong when they insist on differences in access to health services, because the great inequalities are inequalities by social class in Spain. Of course, the postal code influences health levels, but the last two digits of the postal code, which mark the neighbourhood and the social class in which a person lives, are much more influential than the first two digits, which are the ones that mark in which city or province he resides. And, with regard to the interoperability of health information systems, I will only tell you that Spain is a world leader in the development of the digital health of information systems and interoperability. Just take a walk through Brussels and you will be recognized; it is in many of the digital health studies and analyses that the European Commission has done. The Spanish digital history is fully interoperable, as a result of an autonomous community and the territory of Ingesa that are already working on solving the technical problems that exist. We have a unique health card database since 2010, to which the 17 autonomous communities and the two autonomous cities are connected and which allows to have a unique identification of each patient precisely so that the exchange of clinical information can be done safely, something with which there is no other country in Europe. With regard to the electronic prescription, which is already in 100 per cent of Spanish pharmacies and primary health care centres and in nearly 80 per cent of hospitals, it is fully interoperable. Two months ago there were three autonomous communities - since yesterday Balearic Islands is also interoperable and Andalusia will be next summer - so the electronic recipe is also an example of interoperability. Insito, neither the autonomous State nor the formation of the National Health System as a decentralized system has brought greater inequality - but, quite the contrary - nor the differences between territories will be resolved with greater integration of information systems. We have tabled an amendment that we think puts the focus where the areas of improvement of the National Health System really are, which is in inequalities and social determinants. In the meantime, we can only say that the self-amendment that you have put forward seems to us to be even more retrograde than the PNL that you have put forward, because, frankly, you think that the problems of access to medicines have to be solved by the social services and the social emergency aid of the municipalities is to put you and the Citizens Group much more to the right of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor in position-setting by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u91	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. When I read the operative part of his non-law proposal, I thought it was not so bad either, that maybe we could agree. When they made the omnibus-type self-amendment, I said to myself that it seems that with this GNP we do not want to talk about health, but about something else, that health is a pretext for some frustration. A month ago you wanted to assault the state, the government - elections!, elections! - and now the next elections you will find will be the autonomic ones; maybe you will take them with the changed step because they will be autonomic - and hopefully you will be part of autonomic governments - and you will find autonomic health. The best thing is that this GNP will not be approved because it will leave them more room to work, to work well, in the health services that exist in this state, which generally work well. As for the flags, in matters of health my only flag would be the white color, the white robe, because when I enter a hospital I focus mainly on the capacity of the sanitary, which is high. So let's not play the flags too in healing, no need. I know this is a huge temptation, but maybe it would be good if you changed this process. I wanted to talk to you about Catalonia - maybe you don't believe it, but Catalans do - because Catalonia is not an impediment to better information and connectivity, on the contrary. In my speech I will try to explain briefly some information because for us Republicans the social rights of citizens are the most important and experience shows that coordination and cooperation is much better than centralisation. The e-prescription interoperability project, for example, starts in April 2013, and e-prescription piloting begins in early 2014. Which communities participate in this pilotage? Canary Islands, Castile-La Mancha, Extremadura and Catalonia. The proceedings adopted in Catalonia would be as follows. Development phase, September 2015: analysis of functional requirements, definition of the technical solution, tasks of developing the technological solution; testing phase, September 2016: connectivity tests; certification and approval phase, January 2017-September 2017. Catalonia is now certified as a prescribing community and services have been activated recently. In the week of June 25 - this week - the three programs that were already designed to complete 100 percent of the interconnected recipe will be extended to all pharmacies. This is an example. I know you'd want to find other procedures that get worse, but this is the way. The way is basically cooperation, not confrontation. You, if you want to confront the health world, are wrong; what you want are better means, better capacity for intervention, and what you do not want in any way is this confrontation that you pose to us. The information I have provided indicates that Catalonia in the process of implementing the electronic recipe continues, works perfectly. In an interesting Stuart Mill booklet, which I'm sure you've read, La Llibertat, La Libertad, says one thing that's a good recipe: There's no better proof of the progress of civilization than the progress of the power of cooperation. Look, we're about to cooperate. You're for something else. For all that said, you cannot accept your non-law proposal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u93	Well, what a PNL mess! A GNP yesterday; today another different GNP; what arises here is something else... Mr Igea has been going to all the forums for months complaining that none of the parliamentary groups supported him in the motion for health inequalities. We don't support him. Why wasn't he supported? Well, he wasn't supported because you do the headline and under the headline there's nothing. Nothing. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you what. He talks about the Cohesion Fund, a fund that we already know in 2016 was zero euros, which in 2017 was 3.7 million, but you have never set a figure. We have always put a figure on the Cohesion Fund and it has to be the same as when health transfers were completed; but you do not put a figure on it and I also believe that your approach is more in the design of the Assistance Guarantee Fund - as envisaged in the first GNP - in the design made by the previous Government. He does not agree to repeal Royal Decree 16/2012 and I have already heard his group's voice copying the argument about the origin of this royal decree to avoid health tourism, but it is totally false because in 2011 there was already a European directive on cross-border health care and the government did not legislate it in our country until 2014 because it did not want to. That is, when we talk about Royal Decree 16/2012 we cannot argue that it was to regulate health tourism because that is false. But let's go to what affects us now, to the health card. The individual health card was first regulated in the 2004 Royal Decree. Then the Minister of Health - now President of Congress - gave herself a one-year term. There was a political change and it did not take effect. After the Royal Decree of 2004, as it is proposed in the PNL, came Royal Decree 9/2011, where several deadlines were given; neither were the deadlines met. Finally, we came to Royal Decree 702/2013, in which, as PNL rightly proposes, there was a five-year deadline that was fulfilled in October; but it was also raised that according to economic availability, which is not going to be a reality in October. Therefore, neither in the short nor medium term. What does this mean? That the health card is not going to be a short- and medium-term reality. But that has nothing to do with you going through all the forums within a few months saying that we have voted against equity, because equity and inequality are something else entirely different and have nothing to do with technological innovations, which are very good for information, coordination and quality. Equity and inequality must be addressed in the Inter-Territorial Council, which so far has not worked as it should have. Finally, I would like to make a comment. In its GNP it refers to the Federation for the Defense of Public Health. I have the honour to belong to it for more than thirty years and the model of public health that this federation defends has nothing to do with its model, which is public financing and private provision, and the side effects of that we already know. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs Botejara. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u95	Thank you, President. Mr Igea, I have to admit that I was surprised to see on the agenda an initiative that they had registered a year and a half ago, and that is why your explanatory statement seemed already out of date on both data and arguments. I really did not think of the possibility that you would not be interested in talking about digital health or equality, but that there were other reasons behind this initiative, but unfortunately I have to say that I was wrong because you, with the self-amendment that you have tabled on your initiative, have used the tactic of parliamentary filibusterism - let me tell you - by introducing new, very different issues to each other, and which are going to distort the original text. I believe that what you have done with this is to steal from the rest of the groups the opportunity to properly assess their initiative, to submit amendments or, ultimately, to reach a constructive agreement. I assure you that I do not understand your course of action, Mr Igea, because you or your group, when you read the initiative, may be aware that the original was used to highlight the magnificent work done by the Government of the People's Party in the field of ICT in health and that the People's Party has left a much better situation in this too than the one found. Because Spain is today a leader in the use of ICTs in health, thanks to the impetus given by the People's Party government together with the autonomous communities. Despite what you say, today 45 million Spaniards have a health card with the same identification code. If in 2012 only 50% of the recipes were electronic, today they are electronic in all autonomous communities. And that recipe is interoperable in fifteen autonomous communities, already close to culminating in all of Spain. Today a Galician citizen can withdraw his prescribed medicines in Extremadura and vice versa, Mr Igea. And if we talk about digital clinical history, if in 2012 it was only available for 6 million Spaniards, today they have 36 million. That is, the progress in quality and equality that this has made for citizens, thanks to the People's Party Government, has been outstanding. I have to tell you that it is true that the previous Government of the Generalitat was reluctant to participate in this project, but also in Catalonia the situation has changed, and it has changed thanks to the exercise carried out by the Ministry of Health, also in application of 155, and that is so and already now Catalonia is being tested to add to the interoperability of digital clinical history. We hope that you will ask the new socialist government not to allow the Generalitat to stop this important tool to guarantee quality in health care for Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, because the new minister is practically finished. There are no excuses for time or resources here, and that is what we should be demanding today, Mr Igea. I also ask you, citizens, to use the majority you have in the Catalan Parliament to talk about health at some point. This was what we wanted to talk about here today and we were even willing to support you on your original initiative, but, as I say, you are introducing new things, I don't know if in an attempt to win announcements or headlines to the new socialist government; those announcements from the minister that you have pulled out here but which are then nuanced or corrected by the president of the government himself, clearly proves the inconsistency of the Minister's announcements. In addition, I believe that the issues you raise in your GNP cannot be resolved so quickly, because you now call for the repeal of the amendments introduced in Royal Decree 16/2012, has your position on the Royal Decree changed? Do you assume the consequences of the repeal? You talk about a new funding system for the National Health System, but you don't explain to us in your self-amendment whether within or outside the general system of autonomous financing, whether you are asking for finalist funding or not. I believe that what we need to ask the new socialist government is to tackle the reform of the autonomous financing system once and for all, because that is what is in the experts' report, because that is what all the autonomous communities, including those governed by the Socialist Party, want, and because that is what the former minister, Dolors Montserrat, had already started with the health advisers. Mr Igea, don't give Mr Sánchez any more excuses for failing to fulfil his commitments when he was in the opposition. There are many issues to discuss, but it is impossible to do so in five minutes, especially when you have prevented, introducing ex novo issues, the proposed modifications or improvements. Really, I don't think this is the best way to build for the Spaniards, to fall into a headline war, into a tweet war, Mr. Igea. We have a great National Health System, a system that the People's Party Government managed to save from bankruptcy and that today offers more and better benefits to citizens. Let's keep improving it, let's keep building, but let's do it from responsibility and loyalty and not looking for blows of effect to see which one of them gives the best blow of effect or has more retweeting on social networks. This is more serious, I tell both groups. If you really want to work for the equality of the Spanish in health matters, Socialists, absent minister, Citizens, let us do health policy with capitals because that is what the Spanish ask us and what the Spanish will thank us for. Thank you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Angulo. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Igea Arisketa whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u97	No, it will be voted on in the terms of our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u98	Thank you very much. We'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u99	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left on the political situation in Catalonia. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to address all of you trying to be very clear, very transparent, and in particular I am going to address the Socialist Group, which is the group that supports the current government. A large part of Catalonia's citizens - 45%, 47% or 48% alike - vote for independence parties. There are many citizens who vote for political parties in favour of the right to decide, but there are many more, many more than what they want, what they want, what they want, what they want is to have a dialogue, a sincere dialogue, a fruitful dialogue, between the Spanish Government and the Catalan Government: a dialogue without euphemisms, a dialogue without conditions and without renunciation, to talk about everything, I repeat: to talk about everything. Because if we cannot talk about everything, if we cannot raise the problems without any renunciation by both governments, it will not be a possible solution in the coming times, perhaps in the coming years. That is why I say that we need to be able to talk about everything and not as the President of the Government in Berlin said today, that we can talk about many things. No, we do not accept that many things can be talked about, we want everything to be talked about. In other words, those constitutionalist parties have an obligation to assume that we must also talk about what is not of interest to them. That is why the independenceist parties that we represent to a large part of society will also have to assume that we must listen, value and dialogue about the proposals that do not come within our remit. That is to say, here or a dialogue arises in which it is possible to tackle the problem without deception, without euphemism, without wanting - as I told you a few days ago - to take anyone's hair or there will be no dialogue, there will be no solution. It is not about disinfecting, as Minister Borrell says; it is not about deflamming the problem in Catalonia, as the Minister of Justice says; it is about curing. And the only way to cure the society in which we are, which has had a problem that has been dragging on for decades - the Catalan problem that you say, that I understand that it is the Spanish problem also because you also play the future of the same Kingdom of Spain and the democratic quality of Spanish society in how and how the Catalan question is solved - I say that it is only possible to address the problem if the parties acknowledge that we have to talk about everything, without conditions and without anyone having to give up anything. If you believe that the solution is to reform the Spanish Constitution, well, this is a possibility. If you believe that the solution is to modify organic laws in order and effect to recover what the Constitutional Court has dynamized through the judgment, you do so and we will have to dialogue and listen to you about these possible solutions. Just as you will have to listen to what defends a good part of Catalan society. Or what are they trying to do? Marking what it is possible to discuss what it is not competent to discuss? This is to sow failure and we are not going to accept it, since you too have to value the price of not accepting dialogue without conditions and without renunciation. In fact, you know, like us, that in the end everything will be resolved by the consent of the citizenry. In the end it will be citizenship that will decide whether the best solution is yours or ours. What have we always said? That we will always abide by the will of the people of Catalonia, even if we do not like it. If the people of Catalonia ever decided that the solution was a new statute of autonomy and not the exercise of the right to decide; if the people of Catalonia decided that what interests them as a people was a reform of the Constitution, we would obviously comply. What do we ask of you so that a dialogue, a fruitful dialogue can be possible? That you also accept what you do not like. I told him the other day maybe with a rather trivial example. I said to them: if you are interested in dialogue so that one day it is possible to negotiate what are the arrangements and reforms to be made in the building of the Spanish State, I find it logical. Moreover, I think you have this obligation, but our obligation, as we represent a good part of Catalan citizenship, perhaps 50%, is also that you understand that we need to talk about the ownership of the building or about the co-ownership of the building. I know this bothers you or even does not interest you and you may be radically against it, but even if you are radically against it, does it have to behave that you do not assume you have to talk about it? Frankly, that today you reject a Republican Left initiative that only calls for dialogue without conditions and without forcing anyone to give up anything, neither you nor we, is a bad start, it is a disastrous, absolutely disastrous start, because dialogue can only be fruitful if we are all in it. We are expelled from the dialogue when Mr Sánchez says today that we can talk about many things. No, we have to talk about everything. And we have already warned you that if you are not willing, I repeat, if you are not willing to assume something as elementary as that we all feel integrated into the dialogue and leave aside 50 or 60% of Catalan citizenship, do not expect cooperation from Esquerra Republicana. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Mena Arca intervenes, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u102	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. This motion by Esquerra Republicana is framed in a new political scenario that we have come to thanks, above all, to the push of the people who no longer stood up to the government of corruption, thanks to the many people in Catalonia that we have not lost hope and we have always made it clear that Spain is not only the People's Party and also thanks to the Catalan forces that, instead of looking elsewhere, we are united to be the force of change that Catalonia has always been, and that, Mr Tardà, is fundamental. Imagine where we would be now if we had all acted as did our PDECAT partners in the motion of censure that Pablo Iglesias presented on the basis of the emptiness and the great dissonant slogan of disconnection, if they had maintained their abstention that the only thing he did was to shield the People's Party government. Mr Tardà, and I refer also to Mr Campuzano, you know that our hand is stretched out to build a common agenda of dialogue that is firm and courageous, an agenda to look at the future of all Catalans, of the Catalans who rise at six o'clock in the morning, of those who suffer from the unbearable delays of Rodalies, of those who lose many hours stuck in the C-17 or in the C-58, of which they cannot afford to enrol in the university of their daughters and are not entitled to a scholarship, of those who do not arrive at the end of the month in order to be able to cope with the rent of their homes or those who cannot even go one week a year on holiday. For all this, the dialogue that we are proposing from En Comú Puerdes should not occur only between two governments that are also in minority and what we propose to them is an institutional dialogue that is political and that is also citizen. Institutional to express the bilateral mechanisms that already exist, such as, for example, the Generalitat-State Commission. Political, so that all the forces, also the Party of the Socialists of Catalonia, we come to great country agreements and, therefore, we have proposed in Parliament a table for dialogue that is taking strength and body in the form of a parliamentary commission. And citizen, to safeguard the country's consensus that we already have, as our educational model that we ask the Sánchez government to shield from the voracity of the PP and Citizens; our will to be a people, a nation with rights, or to shape democratic consensus in our country that eight out of ten Catalans oppose having unjustly imprisoned representatives. We again ask the Sánchez Government, after the disappointing response of the Minister of the Interior to our spokesman Lucía Martín, to start the process of transferring political prisoners to Catalonia. Because it is true - and that is very good - the change of government has generated expectations. After years in which the People's and Citizens' Party had thought that politics could be done by excluding people, the two have failed. The People's Party has failed in Spain because, despite being a majority, it has failed to retain a government that was against the people and their territories. Citizens have failed in Catalonia because, despite winning the elections, it has shown its impossibility of working agreements on the proposal. People's Party and Citizens only know how to survive in tension; the rift seems to be their natural habitat. Yesterday's meeting between Pablo Iglesias and Quim Torra opened a path of normality, relaxation and dialogue, which is what this country must go through. Now Pedro Sánchez can count on us to be his main partner in government, because we have an important challenge: to turn those expectations into citizen confidence. According to a recent survey, only 30% of citizens are confident that this government will be able to resolve the territorial conflict, only 15% in Catalonia and, surely, it is understandable, bipartisanism has been very disappointing to the Catalans and some of us have been calling for a change for many years. That is why we continue with our two hands stretched out, one to the Catalan forces, to all the Catalan forces, and the other to the Government of the Socialist Party. We tend to build that common agenda of dialogue that will allow us to move from territorial conflict to plurinational solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u104	Thank you very much, President. Mr Tardà, we have before us an opportunity that we must not let go, we have an opportunity that we must take advantage of for the benefit of those people who have felt attacked, offended, hurt or tired of the political situation that we have experienced in Catalonia and also in Spain in recent years. President Pedro Sánchez has made a commitment to open a sincere and respectful dialogue. It was proposed - and remains resolved - to create conditions under which dialogue would be possible. You know that this government has the sensitivity and respect to listen to you and the citizens you represent, but today you have come to us with a proposal to which we have tabled an amendment and you have told us: they are lentils. They haven't even entered into negotiations. What a way to try to talk about everything unconditionally by saying: they are lentils, or take them or leave them! I do not think that will help us to enter without conditions, given that there is already a meeting planned between President Sánchez and President Torra. Both your group and my group know that this will not be an easy task, the commitment that we all intend to adopt with dialogue requires integrity and perseverance, requires robust determination, requires being able not to yield to the political accusations and blackmails of extremists. These accusations, as I have been telling you, will occur but we must use boldness, for once, to build bridges and not to fly them. In this sense, it seemed very constructive today to know that at the meeting that Mr. Iglesias held with President Tora the latter transferred his commitment to dialogue and his renunciation of the unilateral path. We believe that it is right, but what is really required when sitting at a bilateral dialogue table is loyalty, reciprocity and commitment. We must also be able to implement bilaterality and reciprocity. This in a positive sense cannot be compatible with closing in a band and considering any assignment or agreement as a defeat of one of the parties. Finally, the engagement. The parties must undertake to comply with agreed rules from the outset. The Government has made clear on several occasions its commitment to dialogue and respect. In this respect, my group calls on you to commit yourself to the current legal framework, something that, following the events of the past September and October 2017, is clearly necessary and has not yet occurred. Do you undertake that the conflict between Catalans, as well as the conflict between Catalonia and the rest of Spain will be resolved through legal and democratic channels? Are they committed to being true to their ideals and to pursuing them in a democratic and, of course, legitimate manner without ignoring the laws, the statute and the Constitution? Mr Tardà, as you well know and as we have said in countless occasions in recent years, the Socialists are firmly convinced that it is necessary to reform and change the laws in order to adapt them to current times and realities and, of course, constitutional reform is key to our project. They know as well as we do that this conviction has very little to do - rather nothing - with their independenceist ideas; on the contrary, our project is to strengthen the unity of the Spanish State and that this unity implies an attractive project for the national diversity of Spain and not the opposite. The State-General's bilateral committee is a good setting for dialogue, as would the Commission for the evaluation and modernisation of the autonomous state, in which we once again urge them to participate. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. As I have told you before, both your group and mine, by being sincerely committed to the dialogue and resolution of the conflict, we will be attacked by the political extremes that we represent. That is why, again, I invite you to an exercise of political coherence and strength, an exercise of loyalty, reciprocity and commitment. Socialists are sure it's worth it. We need to understand what we don't understand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u106	Thank you very much, President. A preliminary question, Mr. Mena. I think it must be from the few members of this House and from the few Spaniards who have not heard of the differences between the motion of censure that you submitted and the motion that was tabled the other day. The one you presented was a motion of censure absolutely posture to look good. [[Applauds]] Even by multiplying by eight the PDECAT deputies would have prospered their motion of censure. They'll have to analyze it. Let's get to the point, Mr. Tardà. We think it is a simple, simple and minimal proposal and it is sad that Parliament is currently considering whether or not to approve it. When we talk about dialogue, we talk about dialogue and we don't have to have limitations. I'm telling you honestly. Mr Zaragoza, if I tell you that we are going to talk about this, this and this we are not going to talk about and you tell me that this, this and this we are not going to talk about, it will hardly start well. I don't ask you to give up anything, but you can't ask me to give up anything either. You can't ask me to give up talking about political prisoners. You cannot ask me to give up talking about October 1st and the mandate we have since October 1st. You don't recognize it and I'm not going to ask you to give up not recognizing it, but you're not going to be able to ask us not to talk about these issues. What is raised in the proposal is so simple, Mr Zaragoza. I could tell you this: 'How little security you must have in your convictions, your ideals and your values that you do not even dare to dialogue with the one who thinks differently! What little conviction...! I'm not afraid to talk to someone who thinks differently because it's going to be hard for me to lose my values, my convictions, my territorial model and my conception of Spain. It doesn't give me... fear because dialogue isn't giving in.' Does that ring a bell? Minister Batet responding to Congresswoman Montserrat. Well, if it doesn't scare them, let's not set limits. It would be absurd to abort one of the most important opportunities that Catalonia and Spain may have in resolving a conflict situation to impose limitations. The truth is that I understand that Mr Tardà's proposal cannot be enjoyed at all; it is simple, easy to understand. But of course, when you also propose the alternative and say that the dialogue must be in the bilateral committee provided for in Article 183 of the Statute, we do not understand what is happening in Catalonia, I tell you frankly. We have to go further, we all have to make an effort, Mr Sánchez has to do it, his Government has to do it and the Government of the Generalitat will have to do it, but let us not limit the issues on which we need to talk. I understand that after the dialogue comes the negotiation and after the negotiation, if it can be, the agreement will come. Everyone here will defend their positions. I am sure you will have to give up some approach, but you cannot give up what we are going to talk about, what we are going to raise. It would be a serious, very serious mistake if President Sánchez received President Torra to establish a playing field in which we cannot talk about many things, everything. I am optimistic, Mr Tardà, and I want to understand that when you say a lot of things, you refer to many of the things that one side puts forward and many of the things that the other side puts forward. If the vetoes begin in dialogue, there will hardly be negotiation and there will hardly be agreement. We have to understand that you can appeal to the last forty years of democracy in the Spanish State, but you must also understand that we can appeal to the mandate of 1 October, to the mandate of the Catalan people, of an important part of the Catalan people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u108	Thank you very much, President. I would like to point out, first of all, that we will support the motion of the Esquerra Parliamentary Group, a motion that is in line with others that we have already debated in this House in this XII Legislature, but with the novelty of the recent change in the government of the State and also with the novelty that the People's Party, now in the opposition, is putting forward at this very meeting another motion, also on the so-called Catalan question, which it proposes to follow in the same line as when it was holding the central government of the State. And returning to the motion now under discussion, its object is, in our view, nothing other than the right to decide on the people of Catalonia their political future and their way of exercising it in a concerted manner. With regard to this right, this Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party has already expressed itself in this House and also with regard to the so-called Catalan process, and we have pointed out that the judicialization of political issues and the passing of time are not exactly the best way to resolve these matters, which are simply more common rather than being dealt with. The Basque Nationalist Party defends and maintains that such conflicts call for dialogue, negotiation, pact and submission to citizenship through referendum. He also argues that legality and legitimacy need to be dialogued and that his dialogue will find a solution to the problems of coexistence and social organization. It also argues that in liberal-democratic States the legitimacy of legality is self-referential in terms of the expression of justice understood as the rationality of the general will. But it breaks that general will when questioned by one of its parties by breaking the political body, legality can lose some of its legitimacy by losing that part of its consent, which happens, precisely and without a doubt, when majorities in a territorial sphere are not systematically satisfied with their permanent collective claims by the larger political body in which they are integrated. What to do with these accommodation deficits that bring to light the crisis of legality in the face of the invoked legitimacy? Deny it or dialogue to seek, in your case, a reaccommodation? To say that there is no protection in the Constitution or to adequately balance the principle of unity and legality with the democratic principle or with the duty of the public authorities, so that the conditions of freedom and of their groups are effective, or with the same political participation as a political projection of the right and freedom of individual choice or, finally, with the same dignity of the person as a foundation of the whole system and of the legal system itself? Ladies and gentlemen, can it be maintained that in a democratic state it is not a permanent process of voluntary integration based on dialogue, the pact being the best expression? Democracies are never finished processes, because carrying out the fundamental values requires the permanent weighting of the principles in concurrence or conflict, for which it is not prudent to fall into the originalism that advocates that this weighting was already done in the same Constitution, but it is appropriate, in our view, to observe the interests at stake from the watchdog of the democratic principle and of pluralism, which, by the way, also exclude unilaterality. Can it be argued, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject convoked must be the whole people of the State, when the situation is generated by the perception that a national territorial majority has regarding the degree of acceptance of its proposals by the political subject of the higher level in which it is integrated? Can the principle of the majority imply the principle of domination over minorities? Tell us one case in which you voted the whole and not the part. What should be the relationship between politics and legality? The law, to derail politics, or the law, not to derail politics? In any case, from our point of view, the right to decide only makes sense insofar as it helps to improve the living conditions of citizens, not as an abstraction or, much less, to complicate it. I'm finishing up, President. The Basque Group maintains that the non-State nations have the right to govern themselves in a framework of mutual respect and in a strong, pluralistic and progressive Europe, with dialogue, negotiation and the pact ratified by the citizenry being the methods for updating their self-government and building their relations, from the recognition of their national nature, which will not be the source of future problems, but precisely the door to building solutions, and also from bilateral relations and the appropriate guarantees for the fulfilment of the agreement. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, the right to decide is a process of adequacy of the Basque nation in an increasingly complex, plural, open and interdependent context, and it is also a process of voluntary adherence and generating social peace, as respectful of the plural identities of society, which must coexist in mutual respect, knowing that conflict resolution is based on broad dialogue, negotiation and agreements and that any democratic process requires the inclusion of all social groups on an equal footing. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, all the rhetoric of the nation without a state cannot make us lose sight of the nuclear fact of the sovereign subject. Who's the sovereign subject? Look, through the legitimacy of legality, Mr. Legarda, the sovereign subject is Spain, or the sovereign subject is another who is imposed by force, and if he wins he generates a new legality, and if he fails it is simply what has happened in Catalonia, a coup d'état that has failed, an institutional, postmodern, rare coup d'état, but a coup d'état at last; a coup that consisted in marginalizing the opposition, in adopting laws of transitionality so pilgrims that gave power to the president and chief executive to appoint judges; a process that faced the citizenry and maintains the Catalan citizenship; a process that fails with ostentation to the resolutions of the Constitutional Court. By the way, it has just passed through the Bureau, admitted to the Parliament of Catalonia, a motion of the CUP that re-enforces the annulled decision of 9-N of 2015, annulled by the Constitutional Court, according to which the laws and motions of the Parliament prevail over the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Why? Because you say it; because you can commit all the trophies and illegalities of the world, but then you say that what you want is to dialogue without leaving anything out, talking about everything, that everything is possible. You don't want to talk. You have given a coup d'état, you have lost it, you have failed it, everyone knows you have failed, you have an expression whose status is unknown, you have fled justice in Germany, you do not know exactly what obedience you owe to him, you do not know exactly the strength you give to each of your representatives; but what you do know is that all the pluralism and diversity you claim and claim for Spain, you systematically violate it within Catalonia. [[Applauds]] This is the representative of Catalonia's majority party, and this Catalonia's majority party has no way of introducing and making its voice heard on Catalan public television. [[Applauds]] On her public television - which is hers, not everyone's - they refer to the winner of the election just in a joke, the jokes always aside, saying 'how weird that you are working at this hour being Andalusian'. That's the trash your Catalan public television broadcasts! [[Applauds]] You do not respect pluralism, nor have you ever respected it. For you diversity does not exist because you must self-fulfill the prophecy of a single people, united, subjugated and subjugated by the terrible fascist state of Catalonia. Catalonia is not a unique town. In Catalonia half of Catalans do not want to know anything, absolutely nothing, neither about the independence of the process nor about continuing with their striped disc, which is truly stomagan. You do not know how tired we are, especially the Catalans because we have to endure it more, but I believe that all the members of this House are; so tired that I do not know if you have noticed, but you do not even listen to them! Nor do you listen to them anymore, because if you heard them you would realize that you are claiming, from the legal point of view, pure decisionism, of the worst, of the worst, of which history has left in the sewers. No one can defend that anymore! Of course, if you ignore it, like the one who didn't know he was speaking in prose, maybe you don't realize what you're holding. What really cries out to heaven is that you tell us that a democratic solution is sought to the conflict between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia. But, you guys, where do you think you are? What imaginary country do they live in? You are a party that is arrogating the identity of a part of the Spanish people and you are in the bad luck that the number of Catalans who came to do political business is over, because it is a coincidence that a national party is the winning party of the Catalan autonomic elections, and that is what kills you; you cannot with that. [[Applauds]] You know what they're doing? Do you know where the sign of your ability to dialogue is? With the moderate Ernest Maragall reactivating the Diplocat; looking for a leader of the mossos as radical as possible who is willing to do everything in front of Spain, because the one they had before did not seem radical enough to them; with the spokesman of the Government, Mrs Artadi, saying that he does not renounce the unilateral way; with Mr Torra - the racist Mr Torra - saying that he does not renounce... - the racist said so also Mr Sánchez, do not forget; I say this in case they want to answer -... unless a handful of votes have turned who was racist into a man respectful of ethnic diversity. [[a Member of the European Parliament pronounces words that are not perceived]] But racists don't just call it me - I call it and I take it - but don't forget that it's also called the one who currently holds the Presidency of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] You don't want to talk, you want to fuck her...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u111	Mr. Girauta, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u112	...and those who don't know their numbers, maybe they're impressed; we're not impressed at all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor. [[Mr Campuzano i Canadés asks for the floor]] Tell me, Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u114	There has been an expression by the spokesman for the Citizens' Group who would ask for it to be withdrawn from the Diario de Sesiones, as the President has done on other occasions, in this case, referring to the President of the Generalitat, Mr Quim Torra.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u115	Mr Campuzano, I believe that Mr Girauta has referred to words that have even been spoken by other political leaders and that are taking place in the context of an intense political debate. [[protests.-Several Members: No!]] [[Rumors.-Several Members: No!]] Please sit down, and I ask you to speak only and exclusively to the spokesman, not the rest of the members of your group. In any case, I ask Mr Girauta if he withdraws the expression he has uttered.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u116	I can't, because it's descriptive. Mr. Torra is a racist. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u117	Nothing more. All right, let's continue the debate. Mr Fernández Díaz, you have the floor. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Please do not use those expressions. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived.-Laughter.-Applause.]] Of course, I will not consent to interventions if you are not speaking; of course not. One thing is the debate between the people who have the use of the word and another is the contempt, insults and other qualifications given by those who do not have it, and I will not consent to those who are not in the use of the word. Mr Fernández Díaz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. Clearly, dialogue itself is positive. Of course, it is better to speak than to fight, but dialogue in politics is not an end in itself. We can spend hours and hours talking, having coffee, eating or dinner. Dialogue in political terms is understood as a stage prior to a political negotiation that should lead, where appropriate, to political pacts or agreements, and I must say that from this perspective we cannot negotiate everything politically from the institutions, we cannot. I tell you one thing, Mr.Tardà, with the respect and personal affection that you know that I have and that I know that it is a correspondence: for us about the unity of Spain there is nothing to negotiate, and I say it so clearly. The unity of Spain is unnegotiable. That's it. [[Applauds]] So you can politically qualify this expression as you want, but I say it because I think we better know where we are each. We are with the Constitution and not with any article; we are with the foundation of the Constitution, which says that it lies - the foundation - in the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. We believe it and, therefore, there we are. But since we are talking so much about dialogue, Mr Tardà, you could start talking with half of Catalonia, half of the Catalans and those who democratically represent half of the Catalans. Or they could even talk to each other. [[Applauds]] May I remind you, Mr Tardà, that you know that it is true that the Vice-President of the Generalitat learned that the President of the Generalitat had escaped through the newspapers. Nice way to express solidarity. Then we must all be seeing the sceptic that Mr Puigdemont shows his solidarity with political prisoners with the yellow link. I could have told him at least earlier for giving him, Mr Cuixart, etc., the opportunity to, if they wanted, run away with him and run away from justice. They manipulate language and feelings, and talk about political prisoners instead of political prisoners and so many other things. I therefore believe that the time has come for us to speak clearly because a conflict has already been created in Catalan society. Let's be clear. This conflict has not been created by chance. You know, Mr Tardà - and I too - that Mr Artur Mas, in his inauguration as President of the Generalitat in December 2010, after eight years of tripartite, said that he was setting a course for colliding with the State, a course for colliding with the State. Does it seem abnormal or strange to you that when from the Government of the Generalitat, an institution of self-government in Catalonia, it is said that one wants to set a course of collision against the State that does not occur a fracture? Who created it? And now what we are asking for is dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. You can talk about what you want; negotiate and agree on the wreckage produced by those who have had the political will from the first moment to break Catalan society, to get half of Catalans to be foreigners in our land... [[Several Members: Hala!]] Yeah, yeah. [[The lady]] It's embarrassing to read - I'm not going to qualify it because it qualifies itself - the speeches, the articles, the tweets of today's President of the Generalitat. These speeches have echoes of the 1930s of the last century or, if you wish, of the early 1990s in the former Yugoslavia, but in the democratic Spain of the twenty-first century they have no place, except for you, who have put at the head of the Generalitat who has produced those speeches. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been coined in history where the policy of appeasement leads. You know this: you try to avoid conflict, you generate humiliation and you do not avoid conflict. Learn from history, who is a good counselor, because we are here making history, as they have said, indeed: history of Catalonia, history of all Spain. I tell the government not to fall into the mistakes others have made. The policy of appeasement with which they want to impose their will costs what it costs does not lead anywhere, except humiliation and the final conflict. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u119	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Tardà i Coma whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u120	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u121	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the Government's proposals in connection with the announcement by the Minister of Territorial Policy and the Public Function to recover articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[File number 173/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u122	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning by the People's Parliamentary Group, on the purposes of the Government in relation to the announcement by the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service to recover articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second motion we are debating on the subject of Catalonia. It seems a lie that after so long we keep talking about the same thing. But I want to tell you, Your Honor, that the millions of Spaniards who are seeing the Catalan problem, the so-called Catalan question, as Ortega and Gasset said, is one of the main problems or the most serious problem our country has. And I want to tell you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that they are the only ones responsible for that disruptive challenge, that for that breakup, for that coup d'état which the PdeCAT and the Republican Left have given, they are the only ones responsible, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Do not try to hold the government of Mariano Rajoy or the People's Party or the millions of Catalans responsible for nothing to do with those of the PdeCAT and those of the Republican Left. [[Applauds]] That's what I want to tell you. Because it seems to me very serious that the President of the Government in this new policy says that this Government is coming to improve and not to aggravate the problem of Catalonia as the previous government did. That is not the new policy; that is not the way we expected you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the rupturist challenge, the coup d'état that broke the coexistence in Catalonia is based on lies, it is based on the lie of Spain robs us, it is based on the aggravation, it is based on hatred, indoctrination to separate and divide Catalans, and that is not the way, Mr Tardà; it is not the way, Mr Campuzano, to seek dialogue and to seek coexistence. [[Rumors]] The People's Parliamentary Group asked you, ladies and gentlemen, what was the price of the new government to get to where you are sitting now; precisely there is no minister listening to this, you should not be interested, gentlemen of the Socialist Group. But I will tell you: you have not won the elections, you have not brought a government program and you have not, moreover, told us with light and stenographers what agreements you have obtained with Bildu, with the heirs of the terrorists, with the independenceists, and you have not told us either the agreements you have reached with the anti-systems. [[applause]] They haven't told us, ladies and gentlemen, no. But we know now, we just saw them now. See: Dismounting Spain. [[shows the House a copy of a cover of the ABC newspaper]] We saw the transfers yesterday; we saw them yesterday with Urkullu, we saw them yesterday with Mr. Iglesias who now, ladies and gentlemen, seems to be the mediator of the party that supports the Government in the Catalonian affair. Do you know what Mr Sánchez's and the Socialist Government's mortgages are? The rapprochement of prisoners, the reform of the Constitution. For what, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? To regulate the right to decide that Mrs Batet voted and that some members of the Socialist Party voted? Say it. Tell this House if you want to reform the Constitution to include the right to decide of the people of Catalonia. Say it; come up here and deny it. Say it, because we are waiting for it, because, of course, with the Members of the People's Party they will not reform the Constitution to break what is most important to all of us, the unity of all Spaniards and the decision of what Catalonia is and what Spain is that we decide the 47 million Spaniards. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zaragoza spoke of understanding, dialogue, reciprocity and bilaterality. They have 'dao' with lentils - he himself has said it, we have not said it -. They have not accepted an amendment. The dialogue of the independentists is either you take what we ask of you, or there is no dialogue. We have seen that and discovered it in the People's Party and in the People's Party government. I want to thank you for the loyalty you have had with the government of Mariano Rajoy in the implementation of 155. That is why I would like to ask the party supporting the Government why they intend to understand themselves with those who are failing to comply with the law, with those who have made a coup d'état in Catalonia, with those who do not want the framework of democratic rules in Catalonia and, instead, do not want to understand themselves with the People's Party. Can you come up here and tell us why you don't want to take steps to control the Generalitat's accounts? Why did the spokesman minister of this government first say that it was an assignment to the independenceists not to control the accounts of the Generalitat, when with my taxes and those of many Catalans the embassies, the Diplomat and many of the things that are fomenting hatred in our country are being paid? Why don't you come up here and support us on the first point of this motion? Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you come up here and explain that Mr Ernest Maragall has said that he wants to recover in six months all the embassies that were replaced with 155? Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, he wants to establish more embassies in the Middle East and Africa. Does Mr. Sanchez agree with that? Is that the distension? Is that what you're going to agree with Mr. Torra? Because you were with us in 155 suppressing the embassies, suppressing the Diplocat. Now where are you, Socialist Party gentlemen? Again in the creation of those embassies? Come up here and support understanding and dialogue with the main party in Spain that does not want embassies, that does not want Diplomat to be there, and that had suppressed them. Come up here and say it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] In addition, we also ask you to commit yourselves to condemn any xenophobic statement. It was neither I nor it was the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, who said of President Torra that he was racist and xenophobic; President Sánchez said it when, at the time, he was not. Come up here and commit yourselves to all the Spaniards who will always condemn and act against any xenophobic, racist or Hispanic action from the Government of the Generalitat, which I assure you is taking place. Mr Zaragoza, you want to reach out to so many understandings, always with those who violate the law, always with those with whom you want to separate and divide and not with the People's Party, will you support that in relation to the independence symbols - the yellow ties, the photos of prisoners, the banners - that flood our streets, our cities, we have an agreement for that to be suppressed? Are you going to do it? Are you going to ensure that the public spaces in Catalonia and the public institutions do not have yellow ties and that we do not have to go to the beaches, ladies and gentlemen, with our children to see yellow crosses? You guarantee the neutrality of public spaces in Catalonia and of public institutions. Will the government do it and will the party that supports the government do it? I tell you that the People's Party is going to do it, it is going to take it to the Parliament of Catalonia and we are going to bring it here too, because Catalonia deserves spaces with peace and quiet, and not with confrontation. Ladies and gentlemen, are you going to defend the institutions and the King's House? Because, while Mr. Torra meets with Mr. Iglesias, we do not see that the Government of Spain has recriminated Mr. Torra's humiliation by meeting with the ANC to protest against his majesty the king. And I'm going to tell you something: The People's Party government, but also the People's Party, will always defend the king's compliance with his actions as head of state. What is it that relations with the king are broken and that it is not going to be in any act in Catalonia? Go up here, Mr Zaragoza, and tell the Spaniards that the king is going to continue to represent the state in Catalonia because that is what the Spanish government, Mr Sánchez's government, is going to guarantee. [[Applauds]] Get up here and tell all the Spaniards. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, there is another very important issue for us, which is the so-called prison policy, the rapprochement of prisoners, in which Mr. Iglesias - this non-international mediator, but indeed national, whom you have sought - already notes, and tells us the dates and everything on which that rapprochement is going to be made. He has said that this approach will take place in September and October. I would have liked to know for the government, but not for Mr. Iglesias, who I believe represents no one but the Lords of Podemos. Well, can you guarantee here that the rapprochement of prisoners has not been an assignment to the independenceists to become Mr Sánchez as President of the Government of Spain? Are you going to ensure that there are no prison privileges in prison policy in Catalonia so that you can soon have a third degree or prison privileges? Also guarantee it here, because we tell you one thing: We don't think like some of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. With those who have violated the law neither pardons nor impunity, but the law, the rule of law, the Constitution and the regulations guaranteeing the freedom of all Spaniards. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u124	Mrs Sánchez-Camacho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u125	I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of Esquerra and of the PDECAT, do not reproduce the mistakes of the past, do not lead us to an impossible dialogue, do not lead us to sterility and think that there are a majority of Catalans who, like you and like me, Mr Tardà, have our lives in Catalonia but are also part of Catalonia, Spain and Europe. Do not steal from us what is our land, do not steal from us what is of all Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u126	In defence of the amendment made by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u127	Thank you very much, President. This documentation has been left as sensational, Mrs Camacho, and as documented as the ABC, which is not anything, obviously. [[It shows the same copy of an ABC cover that Mrs. Sánchez-Camacho Pérez had taught.-Laughter]] I told him that this is the second motion that speaks of Catalonia and in the first motion we had to attend descriptively, Madam President, to see how from this rostrum a phalangist has described the President of the Generalitat as racist. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] In a descriptive way. In this case, Mrs Camacho, we have tabled a replacement amendment because your proposal is really a proposal very much from the People's Party and, I would say more to you, very much from the People's Party in the opposition, from those who seek conflict and who do not seek solutions and from those who ask the Government to do what you did not even in the Government. They call for the intervention of the finances of the Generalitat, an intervention which was lifted not by the grace of the Socialist Party, but by the grace of a rule of its own that they left approved. [[Mrs Sánchez-Camacho Pérez utters words that are not perceived]] Yes, Mrs. Camacho, yes, fix it. And he rose at that time still government. Do not attribute it to Mr Sánchez and do not ask him to intervene what you have ceased to intervene. They also call for a ban on the return of the Diplomat. Mrs Sánchez-Camacho, do you remember that on December 21 there were elections in Catalonia? You remember, don't you? Did Mr Rajoy summon them and the outcome of those elections, should we respect him or should we not respect him? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u128	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u129	It must be respected and, therefore, the Parliament of Catalonia has elected a President of the Generalitat and a Government. By the way, Mr Girauta, you are the first political force in the Parliament of Catalonia as the People's Party is in this Parliament and you have managed to be the first force of the opposition because the election results are what you are and the government that has been formed in Catalonia is what you are. So... [[Mr. Villegas Pérez utters words that are not perceived.-Mr.Girauta Vidal: There are no phalangists there.]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u130	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. He told them that they were asking that the Government should not be able to return the Diplomat, but why should it do so in its area of competence? Because we have to limit what the Catalan Parliament can do. We must limit what the Government of the Generalitat can do. You begin to limit what a parliament can do, what a government can do, you continue to limit what political parties can do, and then someone from your party comes back - do you remember? Mr Aznar - and he says that the parties have to be limited and that the independence parties have to be illegalized. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, this motion begins here and ends there. Mrs Camacho, what you are asking the truth is that we are only adding to a very easy alternative, and it was asked before: Dialogue, that we can talk. You said: The problem is not dialogue. If the problem is not dialogue, we can dialogue freely. We have no problem in dialogue, I assure you, we have none. And then there is no need to judicialize the political conflict, because what is happening is that an attempt has been made to judicialize a political conflict and political conflicts are resolved with political solutions. This is either understood in this House and understood by the whole of Spanish society or, if not, the problem in Catalonia will not be solved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u133	Thank you very much, President. I shall speak briefly to state that we will not support the motion under discussion. The two motions we are dealing with today about Catalonia are found in their respective antipodes. We have stood in favour of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left and, in good logic, we cannot support one thing and its opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, it is political, recognizing reality, not denying it, much less burning it, and the situation in Catalonia has already accumulated the failure of politics and dialogue for quite some time. We are saturated with words with claw and beak, which Herrero de Minón would say; words such as disqualification, fine, replace, embargo, control, finish, suspend, intervene, prohibit, suppress, illegalize, accuse and imprison. And we are also saturated with wounds that leave a mark and with the legality used in the form of a wall and not as a bridge. Ladies and gentlemen, we now believe that dialogue and intermediation should be restored as a means of resolving conflicts, from which the situation in Catalonia has been orphaned for quite some time now. We also consider, as we have done in the past, the need to de-judicialize what requires political response, which is nothing other than the historical vocation and the need for self-government of the Catalan people, the recognition and respect for their identity and singularities, and a necessary competition to meet the challenges they face in a globalized world. Now, in this new political time, we are proposing the opening of a space for dialogue to find the democratic way to end the territorial crisis in Catalonia, and in the face of that way we are proposing a motion that does not want to recognize the social situation, the social reality that exists in Catalonia, and that demands of the Government to continue in the approaches that to a large extent have led us to where we were: to the dead end of non-dialogue and judicialization, and to an aggravated and engulfed conflict. I conclude, Madam President, by saying, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that the Basque Parliamentary Group will not support the motion. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u135	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you do not want to go back to the 1978 consensus, you want to go back to the lack of consensus before 1978. [[Applauds]] They want to abolish de facto Catalonia's self-government, as if our freedoms depended on Spanish legislation. Let them know that Catalonia as a nation and its constitutions are much older than the 1978 Constitution and the existence of Spain itself. Having said that, let us examine your motion point by point. The first point calls for the Spanish Government to take steps to prevent the Generalitat from using the money for purposes other than the general interest. What a shame! What about Florentino's 5 billion? You have rescued the bank with money from all the Spanish, you have rescued motorways with money from the Spanish and you have generated an energy debt of more than 30 billion euros to pay the big oligopoly companies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u136	Silence! Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u137	Another EUR 30 billion for arms companies, another EUR 20 billion in AVE deficit only to obtain votes. You who have stolen millions and millions of public euros, come to give moral lessons to our Catalan government. Please note that we manage Catalonia's public money so well that Catalans and Catalans have once again given absolute majority to the parties that represent that general interest of Catalonia. The problem is that they don't like what is voted for in Catalonia. With regard to point two, have you read by chance Title V of the current Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, the same one that was cut by the Constitutional Court? For read it and you will see that it is absolutely legal to create delegations abroad, articles 193 et seq. of the legal text. But if you think you should close offices abroad, start by closing offices in all the autonomous communities where the PP governs and then we talk. As for the third point, if you believe that there are statements out of the law, go to the courts - you already have a hand in it - but do not intend to turn the Spanish government into a judge of the contents of TV3 and even less you become judges, the great manipulators of Spanish Television. But they haven't had enough to shut down Canal Nou and dismantle Spanish Television! [[Rumors]] On the fourth point, they seek to condemn solidarity with those who are imprisoned for fulfilling the mandate of the people of Catalonia, for fulfilling their electoral agenda and political commitment. Is it illegal to wear a yellow tie like the one I carry here? Because if what bothers them is a yellow tie, as we say in Catalonia... [[The lady]] One cannot be more miserable than trying to ban and criminalize solidarity with peaceful and democratic people unjustly imprisoned as European courts have confirmed. [[Applauds]] And on top of that you have the cynicism to talk about preventing the politicization of justice, you who know perfectly well that the rapprochement of political prisoners is a legal obligation, not a gracious concession of no one or any favour; it is a legal obligation. With this motion they are only looking for confrontation and chryspation in this House, rather than dialogue and negotiation, so, for all that has been said, our vote is a no-brainer to the motion. And finally, I cannot end without saying that the people of Catalonia do not ask for the rapprochement of their prisoners, they ask for the freedom of political prisoners and prisoners. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u139	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only comment on two speakers who spoke before me. To the spokesman for the Republican Left of Catalonia who, please, does not speak on behalf of the people of Catalonia. She is not and does not represent the people of Catalonia, thank God. [[Applauds]] And to the Convergence spokesman, to the three percent party spokesman, I say to you, you are the three percent party spokesman. Don't insult more than a million Catalans who voted mostly for Citizens. You're insulting all the Catalans we voted for Citizens, over a million. Stop insulting them. [[Applauds]] ; you are the three percent spokesman and you support a president of the Generalitat with racist and xenophobic writings. That's right. [[Applauds]] Going to the motion, the truth is that the title of the interpellation had to do with the alleged intention of Mr Sánchez's new government to recover the articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional, but now the motion does not speak of that. We're surprised. In any case, the motion proposes some points with which we agree, so we are going to vote in favour. It is not said how the Government has to do this; the Government is urged to do so, but perhaps it is not said how this is done: how finances are involved, how embassies are prevented, how the media are prevented from being manipulated so that the media that we pay all Catalans do not represent less than half of the Catalans and continue to be manipulated by the separatists, how the neutrality of public space is maintained so that it is not occupied by the separatists, how support is obtained for the institutions that represent all Spanish and, therefore, also all Catalans. The PP does not say in his motion how that is done. That was already attempted - it was not done entirely well but it was attempted - by applying article 155, and now, in this motion, many things are said to be done but not said how. That's what's missing. I have not seen it either before or behind the motion, but that is done by applying the Constitution in Catalonia, by applying Article 155 in Catalonia. You, who are now presenting this motion, have agreed with these gentlemen, with Mr Sánchez - Mr Rajoy and Mr Sánchez sat in La Moncloa - not to extend the 155 in Catalonia, not to continue applying the 155 in Catalonia, have agreed to return the finances to the gentlemen who used them to finance their separatist process, have agreed to return the Mossos, have agreed to return the embassies and have agreed to continue to manipulate the media. That's what we were worried about. The truth is that that pact between Mr Rajoy and Mr Sánchez to return to the separatists all those tools with which they gave the blow to democracy in Catalonia, at the time, worried us and we denounced it. That is now contradictory for you to present this motion. In any case, we will support it because we share the points that are reported in it. But more than that agreement between the old parties to give back to the separatists the weapons to strike again, we were very concerned about the attitude of the new government, the hidden pact of Mr Sánchez's government with the separatists to arrive at La Moncloa at any price. We are more concerned about Mr Sánchez's mortgages to fulfill his dream of being in La Moncloa, and we are more concerned because they are mortgages that Mr Sánchez is not going to pay, they are mortgages that we are going to pay all the Spaniards and that we are already beginning to pay. [[Applauds]] And we're not just talking about suspicions, we're talking about facts. The first fact occurred in this rostrum, when candidate Sánchez delegitimized the current Statute of Catalonia, saying that it was not the statute that the Catalans had voted. They now re-emphasize this, talking about recovering the articles of the statute declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. How are they going to do it? How do you do that? Let them explain it to us. How is it achieved that rules have been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court? Do you intend to make laws - because in order to reform the Constitution you have no majority - to make a covert reform of the Constitution through the back door, as you did with the approval of the Statute of Catalonia? Obviously, don't count on us for that, we'll be vigilant. Mr Sánchez - who is not present - and Socialist Party gentlemen, make no mistake. To give in to those who do not respect the rules is to weaken democracy. Don't put our coexistence at risk. To give in to those who do not comply with the laws weakens the country and, therefore, weakens our coexistence. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Mr. Sanchez, don't be mistaken again as Mr. Zapatero was wrong. You put Spain's territorial policy back in the hands of the PSC, as Mr Zapatero did at the time. That's how he got out, and we've come this far. [[Applauds]] Learn from your mistakes. Do not confuse Catalonia with the separatists and stop putting at risk for their pacts with the separatists the union and equality of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u140	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u141	Very nice late. Thank you, President. As a Catalan and as a Spanish it also hurts - and it hurts a lot - that the People's Party continues to use Catalonia to cover up its corrupt shames. It is also very surprising that after the hopeful motion of censure that you from the Government have not yet understood that things have changed and have not realized that your strategy of confrontation has been a major failure. We do not know whether in what remains of the legislature its usefulness in this Parliament and that of its orange copy will be to see who says it fattest about Catalonia, as sadly is happening already in the Parliament of Catalonia. Let us hope that you do not enter into a pathetic competition to see which party is the most irresponsible, the one that least loves your country and the one that confronts most to get some electoral results that, I am sorry to announce to you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you will not return. Spain is not what it was about you. The party, your corruption party, your confrontation party is over. Don't make a fool of yourself and leave her alone. And lords of Citizens, you decide whether to dance alone with the PP in this nightly idea of Spain or finally embrace a diverse Spain, a plurinational Spain, that of fraternal peoples, a Spain that dialogues equally with a Catalonia that is also diverse. In this motion we find the same content, the same objective, the same narrow idea of Spain that have been giving us the two benches, that of Citizens and that of the PP. The PP's ladies and gentlemen come today to ask the new government to make exactly the same mistakes they made in the government; for example, insisting on the judicialization of politics, deafening the claims of the majority of Catalan citizens or banning the symbols of others to impose their own. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u143	And what is even more serious is that they pack it up and mix it all with an air of deep hypocrisy, because that you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, come to give us lessons about - and I quote - pressure on judges, xenophobic statements or the use of public resources for something different that is not the general interest gives rise to a profound stupor. Today's rejection of this motion symbolizes the commitment of this House to finally sweep away the legacy of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party Government and to inaugurate a new political era, with a new political agenda in Catalonia that must have as its first objective the distension between the parties, a distension that can only come from dialogue, a dialogue that must be citizen but also institutional and in which Mr Sánchez and Mr Torra must be seriously involved. I take the opportunity to say that Mr Torra has not yet told us what he thinks of that 70% of Catalans who feel Spanish as well. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u144	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u145	Well, where they say list of companies committed to the republic, you replicate boycott to Catalan products. Where they say Spanish steals from us, you say that money goes to the chiringuitos of the process. In the meantime, where's the money going? In their pockets: Andorra, Switzerland, Gürtel and three percent. [[Applauds]] That's why I remind you that you're out of government today. You, who claim to be so patriotic, will know the phrase of Person who says: My homeland is my language. You will also know another Rilke who says: The homeland is my childhood. I am not so native, but let me tell you a moment about mine, my childhood and my language. My childhood is that of a daughter of Sorian father and Catalan mother who saw from childhood how her mother, father, grandparents and grandmothers struggled to build together a better Catalonia, a better Spain from dialogue, from diversity, curiosity and mutual learning. And my language is Catalan, but yes, also Spanish; two languages that coexist, listen, feed and accompany each other. This is what you, as a result of a motion, want to destroy; you tried it in the government and you continue to try it in the opposition. But I announce that no, Catalonia and Spain will no longer serve their opaque interests. The country of the motion of censure that they have received from the Government is that of diversity, plurinationality and multilingualism, that of fraternity and also that of sorority, as we made very clear on 8 March, a new way of understanding politics and relations among peoples. Today my group, this House - I hope - rejects the glossary of chulery in its mistakes which is this ridiculous motion. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u146	One second, Your Honor. Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u147	As I say, we reject this ridiculous motion, and with that we say very loudly that this House rejects its disastrous action in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u148	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u149	Gentlemen of the PP, you have no amendment. It is clear, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you have not yet digested that this Congress has censored you and sent you to the opposition. They seem determined to make the same mistakes as in 2004, when the Spaniards democratically threw them out of power and you answered with the worst and most harmful opposition possible! [[Applauds]] Then you laid the foundations for many of the problems that Spain has today, and you did so as a political revenge and electoral revenue. They then did not care about the general interest. It was possible for them to be irresponsible and to give priority to the interest of the People's Party over that of Spain! Today, after a month of his release from power, we note that the PP has again chosen the same path, the path of confrontation between Spaniards as a political weapon, the path of confrontation, that of disloyalty to the state when the government is not his. In their motion today, they ask the Government to do everything that the PP did not do when it had occasion. Are you suggesting that both Mariano Rajoy and Soraya Sáenz from Santamaría were soft, weak or that they had to do more than they did? Soraya the loose because she didn't remove the ties?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is this what you're asking us? Eight months have you been in the government of the Generalitat and the councils full of ties everywhere, and now you come here and ask this government to withdraw them?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] Look at you, your problem is your contradictions, you come to ask here what you didn't do when you were here. But worst of all, they also ask us to break the law. The problem in Catalonia was when the statute was dropped, on 6 and 7 September, and they come here and ask that this government not comply with the statute, which allows the Government of the Generalitat external representation with its agencies. You ask that the law be breached. You can't discuss the thing by asking for two rules to measure. On the different points of your motion, as I have told you before, we did not come out of our astonishment to see that you are urging the government to do things that you, the PP, have never done, and that you did not do because you did not actually make sense and still do not have it now. They know perfectly well that the financial control linked to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund remains in force and that the measures agreed under Article 155 of the Constitution were automatically lifted when the Government was formed in Catalonia, as Mr Montoro announced - not any socialist but Mr Montoro - to the Generalitat. They know perfectly well - even if their motion ignores it - that Catalan delegations abroad cannot be shut down or banned because their existence is contemplated in the Statute of Catalonia and they do not contravene any rules, and because during the several years that Mariano Rajoy was president did not close any. Catalonia is not the only autonomous community that has offices abroad, but the whole of them, bringing together all the autonomous communities, has reached a total of more than 150. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Batet has already given you enough arguments about what needs to be addressed in the area of territorial policy for this government, and this Member endorses all the considerations that the minister has offered you. The Socialist Party helped to build this democracy, to draft our Constitution, to defend it and to protect it from the threats posed by both those who want to repeal it and those who want it to be a museum object. To defend and protect the Constitution it is also necessary to reform it, and the Socialist Party has for many years been defending the advisability of such reform in order to allow its political sense and its task, which is nothing other than the coexistence of all Spaniards in democracy, to be effective. You, gentlemen of the PP, have been late in all the major reforms in this country since 1977 and, after being late, have tried to take over all those great reforms as if they were your heritage. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u150	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u151	We ask you to reflect, to do something self-critical, to change the attitude you have had these days, because that attitude in the case of the Gürtel ruling and the institutional and general corruption of your party has led you to the place where you are today. They say they're the main party in Spain, and the one with the most late affiliates! Even affiliates have list A and list B. [[Applauds]] We ask you, as a result of this reflection, to help lay the groundwork for the next great reform that Spain needs. We ask you not to come too late to this appointment, because Spain and its Constitution need you more than ever. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u152	I ask Mrs Sánchez-Camacho Pérez whether she accepts her group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u153	Madam President, we do not accept the PDECAT amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u154	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, the vote will begin. First, we voted for the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the reform of the system of permits and allowances for the care and care of minors by their parents in cases of birth, adoption, custody for adoption or foster care. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u156	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, THE REGULATORY BODY FOR EUTANASIA. [[File number 122/00239]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u157	Let us proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, an organic regulation of euthanasia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 206 plus 2 telematics votes, 208; 132 plus 1 telematics vote, 133; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u158	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u159	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the debate. Firstly, we are going to vote for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on empowering the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate to respond to the evolution of the labour market. We will vote on it in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca and Mr Campuzano i Canades. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 259 against, 67 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u160	It's approved. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SINGLE HEALTH TRAFFIC AND THE ADVANCES OF THE DIGITAL CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM. [[File number 162/000255]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u161	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group concerning the implementation of the single health card and the advancement of the digital medical history of the National Health System. We will vote on it in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 162 against, 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u162	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u163	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Firstly, a motion by the parliamentary group in Esquerra Republicana on the political situation in Catalonia. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 92 against, 247.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u164	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the Government's proposals in connection with the announcement by the Minister of Territorial Policy and the Public Function to recover articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[File number 173/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u165	We then vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group on the purposes of the Government in relation to the announcement by the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service to recover articles of the Statute of Catalonia declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. We are going to vote on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour 163 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-26-CD180626.u166	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Tomorrow's session will begin at nine o'clock. It was eight o'clock at night.
