ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to include as new items 8 and 9 the appearances of the President of the Government to explain the agreements reached between the European Union and the United Kingdom at the recent extraordinary European Council of the Brexit of 25 November 2018 and to report to the extraordinary European Council held on 25 November to deal with the issue of Brexit in order to report on a preliminary basis to the European Council to be held on 13 and 14 December 2018, which shall be discussed cumulatively with points 6 and 7. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u2	Let us now move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the debate on the proposal for a law of the Galician Parliament, on the organic transfer of ownership and powers from the AP-9 to the Galician Autonomous Community. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Galician Parliament who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom, together with the delegation that comes from the Galician Parliament, we welcome on behalf of the House. [[Applauds]] For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Martín Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u3	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour for me to be able to defend this bill in the Congress of Deputies, a unanimous proposal from the Galician Parliament supported by the Government of President Núñez Feijóo, and it is also a double honour to do so by representing the People's Group, the majority of Parliament, the only one with an absolute majority in the Spanish parliaments, and therefore essential for the adoption of this draft. As you know, the law-making process of this transfer of the AP-9 is a unanimous demand of the Galician Parliament, which adopted up to three times, all unanimously, reflecting the general feeling of the Galicians. This demand is made within the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, making an exercise of constitutional normality. We are therefore faced with a demand that fits perfectly into the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia, and we do so in accordance with the procedures and the framework established by the Constitution itself. The Galician Parliament proposes this by applying the principle of administrative subsidiarity inherent in European tradition and doctrine, one of the general organisational principles of the Union, and thus, on the basis of this subsidiarity, bringing management closer to the citizen in order to further improve the services provided to him. With this autonomous model, with loyal and responsible self-government and applying this principle, we have made a better Galicia, a better Spain, as demonstrated by social progress and economic convergence rates with Spain and Europe. This is presented by an autonomous community that has exercised its self-government with loyalty so that the competences attributed to Galicia are exercised with loyalty to a common political project, which is Spain. Galicia does not claim this transfer as an instrument to reaffirm any sense of identity. Our sense of identity we have on the sidelines of one or another transfer and it is an inclusive sense of identity. We call for the transfer not to separate but to unite, not to attack the Government of Spain but to work loyally with the Government in a more rational and efficient management of our infrastructures. [[Applauds]] Since the endorsement given to Galicia to exercise its self-government in a loyal manner during all these years, we believe that admitting this proposal to law can be useful precisely to demonstrate how our State should be managed of autonomy and to address the daily problems of our citizens. The Xunta of Galicia has the means to manage this motorway more effectively by being closer to the needs and realities of the users and, therefore, we ask for it through the regulatory, statutory and constitutional channels. We are defending the transfer of an infrastructure that is no longer an infrastructure. It is a vital highway for Galicia, its main infrastructure and competitive engine. It is a route covering five of the seven main Galician cities, where more than 70% of the Galician population and 80% of economic activity are located and on which the main roads of the autonomous road network are linked. It is also a motorway that we can understand as autonomous, as it runs in its entirety through the Galician territory and has no continuity towards other autonomous communities. It does not serve as access to border crossings, as connections with Portugal are made through other state-owned roads. It does not connect directly with any airport or general port of the State. In addition, the autonomous ownership of the AP9 would facilitate the execution of many works of the road network of the autonomous community that have their entanglement in that infrastructure. [[Rumors]] The current Galician Government has been demanding and defending since 2009 - and its President Núñez Feijóo even before he was - the transfer of ownership and competence of AP9 to Galicia for considering it in accordance with existing legislation and beneficial to users, as has been demonstrated by precedents of other autonomous communities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u4	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u5	The Galician Parliament considers that this transfer is legally feasible and desirable in order to ensure more effectively the quality of the service that is provided to citizens, since in Galicia there are usual controversies for the management of the bottlenecks that occur in this way, for the absence in it of discounts that do exist in other similar characteristics or for the amount of the tolls, absolutely exorbitant and excessive. Today we read in the press that the AP9 will rise twice as much in January as the rest of the state highways. The autonomous ownership of the AP9 would enable the Galician Government to manage the motorway closest to the territory and provide an agile and direct response to users' needs. Ladies and gentlemen - and I shall finish - taking into account the existing background, the legal and technical feasibility of the application, its perfect fit within the constitutional and statutory framework and Galicia's overall feeling reflected in the unanimous adoption of this bill in the Galician Parliament, from the People's Group of the Galician Parliament we ask for your vote in favour of admission to this bill. I would like to thank you in advance for the positive vote of the ladies and gentlemen who have already announced it, and I would also like to take this opportunity to urge the Government of Spain to convene in parallel with this procedure in Congress the transfer committee necessary to advance this common objective and its details. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u6	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. Antón Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u7	Good afternoon. Today they will decide whether a proposal for a law that comes to this House with an absolute, unanimous majority in the Galician Parliament will be dealt with. This is a proposal for a law that has been repeatedly and undemocraticly blocked by Mr Rajoy's popular government, which has always had its priority in defending friendly businesses. Your blocking of the transfer, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, was a real disregard for the Galician Parliament and all Galician citizens and a demonstration of their poor democratic quality and conviction. We simply ask that Galicians and Galicians can decide on one of the main channels of communication of our country that connects the main cities of the Atlantic axis, from Ferrol to Vigo, passing through A Coruña, Santiago or Pontevedra. It is an infrastructure in the hands of a company that, thanks to generous political favors, has absolute control over the highway, whose management produces profits before huge taxes, of almost one in two euros of the total invoice. It allows you to bag, after paying taxes to the Spanish State, clean of dust and straw one in three euros of the 145 million euros that it has been billing annually. It is a scandal that increases with the constant rise of tolls, which do so in Galicia twice the state average. This highway leads the state ranking of incidents and benefits, but it appears in the queue if we talk about contracted personnel. It is a great example of voracious capitalism. While in Galicia we see that in the rest of the state the concessions are being ended, tolls are being released or the Madrid radials, the Galicians and the Galicians are being rescued with public money, we have to endure and we will have to endure this daily scam until the year 2048, if we do not remedy it before. It is an outrageous example of amiguet capitalism, practiced by successive Spanish governments with the loud silence and complicity of the People's Party in Galicia to socialize losses and privatize profits. All this, it is worth remembering, began when, after being rescued with public money the AP-9, was privatized with Mr Aznar's government at friend's price. [[Applauds]] Among popular governments, mainly, but also socialists, to a lesser extent, Audasa managed to consolidate a position of monopoly and absolute privilege and legalized the daily theft we suffered. It's an abuse that the company doesn't even hide, has plenty of power and enjoys full impunity. The days that there are kilometre jams Audasa collects tolls in the same way, does not lift barriers and contempt to the users, protected by the right of leg that governments that in theory should monitor for the general interest and that, unfortunately, are accomplices of an institutionalized corruption in the service of large corporations. These abuses are not fantasies invented by En Marea, they are described in detail in the recent complaint of the prosecution that composes a demolishing account of the privileges, prepotence and authorized business pride of Audasa. The transfer to the Xunta of Galicia can improve management by bringing decision-making power closer to the one who uses AP-9 daily, but we know that it is no miraculous or definitive solution. Therefore, we argue that during its processing the possibility included in the proposed law that Galicia can decide, if it is its will, the reversal, the rescue and the public administration is not mutated. [[Applauds]] Indecent privatization and subsequent indecent agreements to fatten the benefits of friends is an evil that can only be democratically corrected by returning management to the public. There is only repair of the evils by contemplating the rescue of the AP-9. They understand, in short - and I am finishing - what the vast majority of Galician citizens feel about the abuse represented by Audasa's management of the AP-9. It is outrage, an outrage shared by the Galicians and the Galicians vote for whom they vote almost equally. I can assure you that it will be difficult to find greater unanimity in Galicia than in the face of the overpowering, abusive and insulting management of Audasa, which has been allowed by successive governments. Ladies and gentlemen, one of our poets said that Galicia is a country where everything is to come and not to come, where everything is to come and not to come. Today it is in your hands that this act of justice arrives. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u8	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. For starters, I would like to say that this discussion should have taken place a long time ago. We should be discussing on time the financial conditions of this assignment of powers or, from the Xunta of Galicia, how the AP-9 is managed once transferred. But no, we are debating this proposal for a law which was already discussed and adopted unanimously in the Galician Parliament on three occasions. As has already been said, we are debating today the proposal for a law to transfer the management of the AP-9 motorway to Galicia, which has been blocked for two years at the Bureau of Congress. Why are we debating it today? Because Mr Iñigo de la Serna, as Minister of Development and on behalf of Mr Mariano Rajoy, decided to veto this bill that the Galician Parliament unanimously sent to this House. It's something we can't understand. How is it possible for the People's Party to vote in favour of the transfer, but to vote against its debate? It is inexplicable, although today it seems that we will agree on positive support because, as Mr Alberto Núñez Feijóo announced last week, the People's Party seems to be voting in favour of this transfer. At the time we have already stated that this veto had no legal basis, since we have made changes since the Galician Parliament so that the financial consequences in any case would have no burden on the current budget. In addition, we are concerned that these financial consequences would have taken a first step, which was the discussion in the Joint Transfer Commission. Therefore, from the legal point of view, the veto was inappropriate, it seemed more like a manoeuvre of parliamentary filibusterism than anything else. Furthermore, today we know that the Constitutional Court says that this action by the Government was inappropriate and that it was being overstepped in its powers. But at last, we are here to discuss and defend the transfer of the AP-9 motorway to Galicia. We are convinced that the transfer will take place, that the unanimous demand of the Galician Parliament will be taken into account and respected in this House. We have that conviction, first of all, because the management in recent times of the AP-9 in relation to tolls, which are modulated with criteria not always strictly technical, gives rise to different solutions, to similar situations in the territory thus causing an unsustainable situation. As you know, the Galicians and the Galicians are going to have to continue paying the highway until 2048 because under Mr Aznar's government its concessional term of twenty-five years was extended. Secondly, it is going to happen because there is a clear political and social majority in Galicia and in Spain as a whole, and in the end, as we know, social and political majorities end up being imposed. The arguments are blunt and well-known. Let me just remember a few. You already know, and have been exposed here, that the AP-9 motorway connects to about three-quarters of the population and is the backbone of our Atlantic façade, being used daily by thousands of Galicians and Galicians. Management from nearness, from Galicia, applying the principle of subsidiarity would allow us to use the tools at our disposal to try to put an end to a situation that Galician citizens feel unfair. In addition, it should be noted that being approximately 5.8% of the state territory, as well as of the population, Galicia represents close to twice as many kilometres of national toll roads in relation to our area and population. However, this claim is not new; the Government chaired by Emilio Pérez Touriño has already requested a package of forty-nine transfers that included AP-9 and was endorsed by the Galician Parliament. To that date, the claim for such a transfer is dated back. Therefore, based on dialogue, understanding, cooperation and institutional loyalty, we trust that the transfer of this highway will help to strengthen the Galician self-government that has been stalled for so long and thus be able to exercise greater control over the concessionaire of this road infrastructure. Moreover, as you already know, these kinds of transfers are neither unwinding nor out of place. They took place in Catalonia with the A-17 or the A-19 years ago, and we have recently known the agreement on the transfer to Euskadi of 6 kilometres from the AP-1 motorway. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we call for the support of all the parliamentary groups present here in the consideration of this initiative. I ask you all to vote, so that we can create a unanimous space where all the forces can agree, where we can see that - here too - the unity already demonstrated in the Galician Parliament is a unity demonstrated in the Congress of Deputies. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u10	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. On behalf of the Forum, allow me to greet the representatives and the delegation of the Galician Parliament who are accompanying us this afternoon and, through them, all the Galician people with whom so many and so close ties, starting with the good-neighbourly one, have the Asturians. I am pleased to recall that, thanks to the Transport Infrastructure Plan which in 2000 approved the Aznar Government with Álvarez-Cascos as a great driver, today we are infinitely better communicated through the Cantabrian Highway - without toll - which in 2014 put in service a president of the Government, Mr Rajoy, and a minister of Fomento, Mrs Pastor - today president of Congress - both Galicians, after completing the works and overcoming the paralysis and costs of the government of Mr Zapatero. I stress this because, in the matter before us, Galicians and Asturians - brothers and sisters, according to the popular saying - also unite, to our regret, the condition of having been relegated by the socialist governments of the infrastructure policies that are the responsibility of the State. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u12	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u13	This afternoon, the Galician Parliament promotes the debate on the transfer of ownership and powers from AP-9 to its autonomous community. But without getting out of the infrastructure, there are too many leftovers to demand first and foremost the modernisation of Galician communications or, which is the same, the urgent incorporation of the north-west of Spain into the 21st century. And there, in that space constantly forgotten, I repeat, by the socialist governments, is also Asturias, which, like Galicia, is not conformed with the railway of old and the Iberian nineteenth, nor is it resigned to see discriminated its great ports, while the Ministry of Development condones from a shot 350 million euros to another Mediterranean harbour space, nor does it lodge the demand for better communications by road, keys to competitiveness and of extraordinary economic-social significance. It has already been said that this is not the first time that the Congress has spoken of the transfer of ownership and competence from AP-9 to the community, but this afternoon we have the opportunity that Forum supports with its vote to initiate a legislative process that makes possible the transfer of management, as has been unanimously claimed by the Parliament located in the Peace of the Horreo. As the major economic difficulties resulting from the crisis have been alleviated and the administrative constraints resulting from road legislation have also been overcome, as the Atlantic Highway is a public infrastructure of general interest, this initiative is also preceded by the creation of a bilateral Commission Government of Spain-Xunta, which since its creation is paving the way for the transfer of the AP-9. Speaking of motorways, I take the opportunity to call for the cessation of territorial discrimination that Asturias is also suffering in the policy of freeing tolls being carried out by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, a recent case of the AP-1 and others that are on the horizon of 2019. The competitiveness of our transport of passengers and goods by road is impossible as long as the Madrid-Oviedo route is penalized with the highest percentage of tolls of all the radio corridors of Spain and, in case it were little, the Minister of Promotion just announced a few hours ago the rise of tolls of 1,67 %. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u15	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Galician Parliament present in the Chamber, other Members of the Galician Parliament present in the House, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must remind you that, in the context of the 40th anniversary of the Constitution and the 70th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights, there are political prisoners and political exiles in the Spanish State. [[Rumors.-Sir Cantó García del Moral: It's a lie]] Yeah, yeah, I remember. [[Applauds]] In addition, to their shame, I must also remind you that four of these political prisoners are on hunger strike to denounce... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u16	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u17	Yes, yes, gentlemen, they are on hunger strike to denounce the blockade of the Constitutional Court that admits to processing their appeals but does not solve them, for more than a year, when the Criminal Prosecution Act and the same decisions of the Constitutional Court point out that when there is a remand prisoner these appeals are priority. And that prevents you - and that is what scares the Constitutional Court and most of you - from getting access to European justice. Having said that, let us go to the subject before us. From the Democratic Party we will obviously support this proposal. Beyond the tortuous procedure, we normally support any initiative of a parliament that comes to this House and, when this initiative is endorsed by the unanimity of the Galician Parliament, obviously from our group we simply want to tell you that we are going to support it, that, if possible, we are going to facilitate its processing as a matter of urgency and that we undertake not to amend it in order to respect the will of the Galician people. Without trying to interfere with the very dynamics of the Galician Parliament, we know that this initiative has been adopted unanimously, but that some political formation, such as the Galego Nationalist Block, which was one of the driving forces, has not had the opportunity today to defend its proposal from this rostrum. Anyway, congratulations. Let us hope that the process is as quickly as possible and that this important infrastructure for Galicia can be managed from Galicia. In Catalonia we would also like a similar situation. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u19	Good afternoon, first of all, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen; good afternoon, too, representatives of the Galician Parliament. Welcome be because they bring us an initiative that is certainly surprising and shocking. Let us go on to say that, apart from other considerations, it will count on the support of the Basque Group. But let me also explain to you that this is a surprising initiative because we do not know to date any legislative initiative of autonomous communities aimed at promoting the transfer of competences already contained in their own status of autonomy, and that gives rise to a debate that seems to us, as I said earlier, elementary on the one hand but shocking on the other. One question: Do the autonomous communities need to go to Congress to demand compliance with their autonomy status? Because that seems to be what this debate is about, this legislative initiative. And go ahead and understand perfectly the root of the initiative. This initiative was driven in its day by a friendly party, the BNG, and is logically a consequence of the claim - also logical - of a nation, which is the Galician people, to want to decide its future in terms of the management of its infrastructures, and also because it materialized this political claim in a certain area of competition, the one provided for in article 27 of its statute of autonomy, it is unacceptable that so many years after its approval it has not yet been transferred to that community a road that runs entirely within its territory. In our home, in Euskadi, the road skills are of a clear, historical, foral root. The design, construction, management of roads and their maintenance are the competence of the historical territories and are managed by the outlaws, which leads us not only to understand this claim in the light of a clear will of self-government, but also on this occasion to demand once again the transfer of infrastructures that, having already been transferred to Euskadi, are managed by the State and are not managed by our institutions for the same reasons that we consider illegitimate to retain in the hands of the State powers that should already have been transferred to the scope of an autonomous community. Recently, in our case, we have - and you have just recalled - moved the AP-1, but we still have to transfer the AP-68, and that is a demand that we want to make in this debate. However, and returning to the specific case before us, we say that the initiative has drawn our attention because, as I asked earlier: does it need to come to Congress, do the autonomous communities need to come to Congress to effectively comply with their status of autonomy? With all due respect, this does not seem to be the way indicated by the Constitution for the implementation of this effect, without prejudice to the fact that, under article 152, the transfer of powers or powers of state ownership through rules with the status of organic law would have to be legalized or authorized, although such a constitutional provision appears to be in appearance in respect of those not included in the statutes of autonomy. But what about the powers already contained in the statutes of autonomy? The initiative recalls that the competence claimed is already contained in article 27.8 of the Galician Autonomy Statute, and states that, in turn, the fourth transitional provision of the same Autonomy Statute provides for the creation of a joint commission to implement such transfers, which would also be carried out by decree. So, and if all the Welsh House parties and the parties supporting this and the previous government seem to agree, why has this initiative, this situation had to be reached? We therefore reiterate our perplexity in reading this initiative. We reiterate our support for this initiative, which is questionable in some respects, such as the issue of the cost of rescue and some other issue that we will certainly be able to discuss, but that is why we will not stop supporting it. That is so, reiterating that it seems to us that there is an absolutely striking precedent, which does not exist so far, and that in some way it highlights the inequality that exists in the area of the construction of the autonomous State with regard to the exercise of rights or the completion of rights when talking about the State and the autonomous communities, despite the fact that the territorial management of the State is understood to be formed by all institutions, by all of them, and by all territories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u21	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, good afternoon. First of all, a greeting to the representatives of the Galician Parliament who are accompanying us today. We would have liked to have been able to intervene in the consideration of this proposal for a law on the transfer of ownership and powers of the AP-9 in Galicia by BNG's colleagues, as promoters and drafters of this law. We find it unfair that they cannot do so, we send them a fraternal greeting and we tell them that our voice is their voice. We come from Galicia the demand for transfer - to which we will logically support - of a basic infrastructure for internal mobility, such as the AP-9 of Galicia, and the problem arising from the high prices of the tolls of it, prices that are a real scandal. A demand that was repeatedly paralyzed by the PP government, a People's Party that paradoxically now supports it; the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, does genuine miracles. In Catalonia we know perfectly well what this model of motorways implies, since, for example, in 2014 motorways with explicit tolls, i.e. barriers, collected 1722 million euros throughout the Spanish State, of which 967, i.e. 56%, was collected in Catalonia. More than half of the money collected on all state toll freeways was collected in Catalonia. In most cases these are motorways that have already been widely paid for by their users and are now part of the huge revenue gear of the concessionary companies. Companies like Abertis, which closed last year with profits of 735 million euros. Abertis is one of those companies that returns political favors through revolving doors for those politicians who behave well. We will say this whenever necessary: the concessionaire always wins and the citizenry always pays; they privatize profits and socialize losses. Toll freeways have affected not only the quality and standard of living of users, but also the competitiveness of the economy. The Parliament of Catalonia approved a proposal for a law for the creation of a fund to rescue our tolls. This initiative was taken into consideration by Congress in 2008. However, the PSOE and the PP agreed once again to extend the deadline for amendments to the bill, so that the initiative fell to the end of the legislature and the Catalans and the Catalans we have continued to pay. Opposition to tolls has been growing in recent years, being aware that we have already paid heavily. It is necessary to advance and evolve towards a model of tolls that is homogeneous, harmonious, that fosters territorial balance, that encourages economic development, that escapes the radial and centralist conception of a State that is centrifuging all its developing potential and, of course, that is sustainable. Galicia has every right to manage its own infrastructure, of course it does. And I do not want to miss the opportunity to remind you that while we are being blackmailed into adopting budgets that we have not seen, commitments to implement budget investments continue to be repeatedly breached. At the last bilateral meeting of the State-General, the Government committed itself to making the payment of EUR 750 billion committed by the Ministry of Finance for outstanding State investments in infrastructure. Well, it's been months and nothing is known about the promise. Meanwhile, accidents on mid-distance train lines continue in the face of abandonment and disinvestment in infrastructure maintenance. If there is no political will or commitment to comply with the agreements, there can be no confidence, and without confidence what remains? You may think that by doing as the right of PP and Citizens will succeed in perpetuating themselves in power, but you are wrong. When they figure it out, maybe it'll be too late. I'm done, President. All the solidarity with the Galician people and one more plenary to remember that in 21st century Spain there are political prisoners and prisoners, some of whom are on hunger strike. This, ladies and gentlemen, should embarrass you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u22	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u23	Thank you, Madam President, and I would like to welcome on behalf of my group the Members of the Galician Parliament and those present at the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, since there has been a change of government in this legislature without going through elections and, therefore, without a solution of continuity, we have had the opportunity to attend a surprising spectacle, which I believe has been particularly clear in the Committee on Development. It consists in the exchange of roles between the Government and the opposition with complete naturality. When the PSOE demanded investments before, criticized the execution of the works, criticized the deadlines and the PP said our infrastructures were great, that the PSOE did electoralism, etc., with the change of government the couples are reversed and the same dance continues. The position of the PP now occupies it by the PSOE, and vice versa, everything, I insist, with an amazing naturality, at least for those for whom we are newly arrived. This has produced a certain sense of farce and a certain disenchantment. He said that this phenomenon has occurred especially in the Committee on Development, because the investments of this ministry are the candy market with which the politician wants to obtain votes, which explains the waste, the underutilized infrastructures and even in part the crisis of the boxes. The easiest policy is to try to capture wills with gifts; it is the caciquism of all life, only that the cacique of the nineteenth century paid it with its money and the cacique 2.0 does it with the money of everyone. [[Applauds]] I will tell you the reasons for Citizens not to support this initiative. The first is that they say in the explanatory statement that the AP-9 circulates entirely through Galicia, and it is true, but what they do not say is that it serves as a connection with Portugal, which makes it a strategic way, a way of general interest. You say this implicitly when you say that competition at borders will continue to be the State's - it would miss more!-; it does not seem logical that the infrastructure that connects with another country is the competence of an autonomous community. The second reason is co-responsibility. Article 1.2 of the draft lists the functions which would be incumbent on the Galician Community following the transfer of ownership, and in point (d), the economic and financial arrangements for the concession, it is stated that all the powers would be incumbent on the Galician Community, in particular as regards the establishment, updating and abolition of tariffs and tolls. (e) The drafting and approval of conventions... for possible reductions in the concession. That is, for the rescue of the concession. But then Article 1.3 states that, without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the General Administration of the State retains responsibility for obligations with economic and financial repercussions. In other words, the ownership of the powers of the AP-9 is transferred to the Community, which can then decide whether or not to take the tolls off, whether to rescue them or not, but pays the State. This is glorious. And we have heard as an argument of authority that the whole Galician Parliament voted in favour. It's not strange because who would vote against being given a cost-free infrastructure? But there's a cost. That electionist proposal to gracefully gift an infrastructure will be making it politicians in all communities and neighbors will be believed to be, with many quotes, without cost, but to each of them will be inadvertently falling the 'no cost' of others. But, moreover, the lack of co-responsibility, that of one deciding and the other paying, causes what in the economy is called moral risk, which is to incur higher costs by blurring or hiding who is going to bear them. And this is the perverse effect of compartmentalization. Look, we all have a double nature here; we are all representatives of our respective constituencies and, on the other hand, we represent all Spaniards, and how we articulate this double nature will prove whether we are politicians or charlatans. We are used to seeing the nationalist deputies, who obviously bring the general interest without care, either because they have no national representation or because they have no national interest, but a national party should behave differently. Gentlemen of the PP, this is a news of the Lighthouse of Vigo, of July 31, 2017, with the minister [[shows a photocopy of the newspaper Faro de Vigo]] De la Serna and President Feijoo. Minister De la Serna opposed the proposal that is now being brought to this House arguing that it is a way of general interest, with which we agree; he said that the transfer would result in a battery of transfers and some dismantling of the state's infrastructure, with which we also agree, and that it provided for a cost for public coffers of at least 554 million. De la Serna didn't agree to take it and neither did we. But, then, Mr. Feijóo maintained his claim to the transfer, although, he said, by loyalty he agreed to park it at a time like the one at the time. The moment meant that the whole orgy of transgressions against legality and abuses against democracy that the nationalists were about to lead was about to occur. But does Mr. Feijóo now understand that the current scenario, with the very irresponsible President Torra calling for a war with a few dead is better than the one at the time? Well, it doesn't seem like it. Tell us then, if the PP has changed his mind, why does he do it. One, because he's no longer a government and then he's changed his position at the dance. Two, because of the proximity of elections; do they claim that President Feijoo frees the AP-9 or the rescue gracefully when the election campaign approaches? Well, hey, don't ask us to pay for your campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to believe that AP-9 is a way of general interest; we continue to be in favour of co-responsibility in the planning and cost of infrastructure; we continue to be against using 500 million to pay for a covert election campaign, and, in general, we continue to be against electoralism with investments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u24	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u25	Thank you, President. Boa afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, boa afternoon and welcome Members of the Galician Parliament, and boa afternoon to Galician citizens who will be following this debate. We are here to discuss an issue that reflects the absolute unanimity of all Galicians and Galicians, but not only of the political parties, but of the whole of Galician citizenship. One simple thing that anyone can understand is that Galicia's main axis of communication, which connects 70% of our country's population every day, cannot be managed by multinationals; a unanimous demand from a country that requires it to manage itself and in a completely public way its main channel of communication. And it is necessary to remember here today that we are talking about an anomaly and an aggravation, a comparative aggravation towards Galicia, illogical, unnecessary and inexplicable and, therefore, an aggravation with which we must end once and for all. The treatment given by the State to Galicia in this and this matter is absolutely intolerable. Rather, the treatment given by the State and the forces of bipartisanism to Galicia on this issue, the People's Party but also the Socialist Party, is intolerable; if they ruled in Galicia, they blocked it in Madrid; if they ruled in Madrid, they blocked it in Galicia. You, gentlemen of the People's Party and the PSOE, have only used this subject and other transfers in an irresponsible way, for partisan confrontation; in no case for the general interest of Galician citizens. It must be remembered that it was precisely the government of the People's Party, under the mandate from Galicia of Mr Feijóo, that kidnapped not only the transfer, but the debate in this House of this initiative. Faced with this situation, our group has moved to curb this abuse, first, by formulating numerous initiatives; then, by formulating a review before the Bureau of Congress, where we met with the systematic blockade of this initiative by Citizens and the People's Party, and, in the face of the refusal, by transferring an appeal to the Constitutional Court. And it is no coincidence that this initiative will be approved precisely when bipartisanism is in low hours and In Marea is in this house. In any case, we welcome the fact that the Government that emerged from the motion of censure has lifted - or has been forced to lift - the veto. It couldn't be otherwise, so let's go with the debate and its context today. Firstly, toll freeways are an anomaly in the Spanish State and we must remember that. Do you know who the two rulers allowed this door to be opened and who instigated this model? Yes, Franco and Aznar were the two who allowed this business that opens the door to private management and profit. [[Applauds]] What does this model translate into in the AP-9? It translates into millions of users, citizens and citizens, giving huge profits every year to private investment funds. Do you know what the scandalous numbers of Audasa are? Last year it achieved a profit ratio of 81%, 81 euros out of 100. In summary, out of every 100 euros that Audassa collects in tolls to Galicians and Galicians simply devotes 8 to paying staff, 11 to operating and maintenance expenses, and the rest is already known: benefit, benefit and benefit that it distributes among its shareholders. And do you know what we have also met with the Galicians and the Galicians this week under the mandate, by the way, of the Socialist Party? With a toll increase of 3,47 %. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is time to take letters on this matter. Galicia's strategic channel of communication and the money that Galicians and Galicians pay for building this infrastructure goes to Luxembourg, Germany, banks and investment funds. Therefore, and first of all, because of its key role as an instrument of development, economic dynamism, social inclusion and vertebration in Galicia, the public nature of this strategic infrastructure must be ensured. Secondly, once and for all we must put an end to this aggravation of Galicia. The AP-9 was auctioned in 1973, at the same time as the AP-1, the North Highway. Today the AP-1 is toll-free while, thanks to the People's Party, the Atlantic Highway has been extended to 2048 and has one of the highest tolls in Europe. They want Franco's concession for twenty-five years to pay for thirty more years. And thirdly and lastly, we are talking about an accessible and necessary rescue; we are talking about the concessionaire with more claims throughout the Spanish State; in fact, last week the prosecution filed a lawsuit against Audasa for the abusive collection of tolls. So it's time to end the bloody tolls, the blackmail of Audasa and the monopoly of an infrastructure, by the way, overly amortized. Today this issue starts the way in this House. Let us hope that this is a path without excuses and that this initiative will be pursued with all the urgency it needs. In any case, from En Marea and Galicia we will be vigilant and we demand to process the transfer of the AP-9 immediately and assume its rescue so that the public will no longer benefit the private. As we say to them and we always demand from them from En Marea, they comply with Galicia. In this case it is very easy: public Atlantic highway, Galician and free of charge. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u26	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u27	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to comply with one of the basic principles of democracy: to be able to speak, to debate, to disagree and also to be able to agree. Today, in the house of the word, and thanks to the present Government, we can bring to debate this proposal for a law unanimously promoted by the Galician Parliament but which up to now had suffered a shameful veto by the Government of the People's Party and, yes - let us not forget - with the satisfaction of those who at the Bureau of Congress supported this action, and I mean, of course, Citizens, I do not know if version 2.0 or 4.0. This proposal for a law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia therefore comes to this House and we are happy with it, although it also makes us blush, and not so much, that those who few days ago imposed their veto on this debate now intend to present themselves as their greatest valiant. [[Applauds]] I take this opportunity, of course, to greet the members of the Galician Parliament and those accompanying you and, in their name, the Galician citizenry. This is your house too. The Socialist Group supports the holding of this debate and takes account of this proposal basically for the following reasons. First, because this proposal relates to the sustainability, maintenance and improvement of the Spanish road network, whose debate the Government wants to promote, because the current model is inconsistent and imbalanced territorially and needs to be changed and evolved towards a better model; the case of the AP-9 is paradigmatic. Secondly, because the Galician community is particularly affected by the inconsistencies of the Spanish high-capacity road model. This is so both because of the proportion of Galicia's high capacity network, which is toll-free, and because of the proportion of traffic that circulates on it, in both cases presenting figures higher than the national average, and because we understand that having passed the bill unanimously from the Galician Parliament its consideration benefits the democratic quality and dialogue, without prejudice to the competences of each administration and without prejudging the final outcome. Ladies and gentlemen, the AP-9 for a large majority of Galicians and Galicians is not just any highway. The Atlantic Highway is our main road, a daily, frequent and multi-faceted road that links the most populated areas of Galicia, and this is so insofar as it is a road that affects our daily mobility by not having in many sections a real possibility of a reasonable alternative route, either because of the state of the secondary roads, or because of the broad, in some cases truly broad, roads that would have to be given and the times that this means. We do not use it to go on a bridge, for holiday use, for long and rare trips; on the contrary, it is the way that is used to go daily to work and with which our cities interrelate in all areas of the day-to-day. That is why, rather than the emphasis on the ownership of the road, which we are also extremely concerned about the objective of the mobility of people, mobility which we do not intend to contemplate from the perspective of privilege but from the perspective of balance, justice and the sustainability of our road system, criteria of balance and justice which were abruptly shattered as soon as the Aznar Government approved in 2000 the extension of the concession until 2048, with a high level of tolls, which are undoubtedly, as my colleagues in the Galician Parliament recalled, an insurmountable burden for families and businesses. And all this when it was promised - and Rajoy's phrase still resounds through the network - the suppression of the tolls in that election campaign in which Aznar won. Allow me the license to turn to Machado and tell them - so I explain myself better - that his verses in Galicia would say: Walker there is no way, he makes his way by paying. And a lot, believe me. If not, we would be talking about a very different scenario, with a concession that would end in 2023, which would undoubtedly result in a much more advantageous position when it comes to making decisions about Audasa. On the other hand, the management of Audasa - the concessionaire company -, which we have been suffering for too many years, has always had negative and repeated connotations for users. Last proof of this - it has just been said here - is the lawsuit filed against this concessionaire by the prosecutor of Pontevedra, in which it is claimed the return of the improper charges during the works in Rande, since - and I quote words of the prosecutor - all the users were affected as soon as they received a service of the highway with insufficient conditions of fluidity and security; an action, that of the prosecutor, that satisfies us but that knows little and does not eliminate the daily sinabres of the actions with which with more frequency of the due obsequia us Audasa. Today we are considering a text which the Galician Parliament itself has itself amended, also unanimously and in a very minor matter. We are obviously referring to the issue of the rescue of the concession, a substantial change which, if approved, as we hope, this consideration must be taken into account in subsequent proceedings, that is, in the debate in question. We could wait and bring to plenary the last text presented, but that would further delay a process which, if not by the continuing vetoes, should have been dealt with long ago. This issue further reflects, where appropriate, the decision of the current Government and this group in favour of addressing the issue of the transfer of AP-9 in the shortest possible time. We must not forget that it is in the Galician Parliament itself that this change of text is taking place and that, although the first of them is being discussed today, it would not be acceptable to ignore those subsequently referred to, which also bring together the same degree of unanimity of all the political forces in that House and therefore the same strength. Nor do we want to ignore the fact that the work on the Atlantic Highway and its transfer will coincide in time with the debates that will take place in this House about the future of the road model that we intend to establish in our country, a model that from the Government and from this group is intended to extend to the whole of Spain and that aims to overcome a policy of economic pacts without meaning, a model of mobility based on criteria of equity and justice, homogeneous throughout the social and territorially balanced network, as well as financially and environmentally sustainable. [[Applauds]] We hope that, as happened in Galicia - I have already concluded - the agreement and consensus will prevail and we will be able to approve for the whole of Spain and for the case before us, in particular for Galicia, a fair and balanced model that responds to the interests of the citizenry. I conclude by reiterating that the Socialist Group, of course, is going to vote in favour of this consideration. Nothing else. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u28	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the delegation of the Galician Parliament, welcome; Members of the Galician Parliament, who are also in the rostrum, of the Socialist Party, of the People's Party, of the Galego Nationalist Block, also welcome to the Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for an organic law of the Galician Parliament, and it is going to do so mainly for a number of reasons which I will list at the time I have before me. Firstly, to support a unanimous request from the Galician Parliament and also to support the position of the Galician People's Party. This request for transfer was already approved, as has been said, unanimously in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, because we all agreed that this is a fundamental highway for the economic vertebration, for the mobility of Galicia, and because we were and are convinced that managed and managed from the autonomous community will provide a higher quality service to the users, a Parliament of Galicia in which the People's Party has an absolute majority at the will of the Galicians and which is led by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who was the main driver of this initiative in the opposition, when we were in the loyal opposition in the Galician Parliament, and who maintained it before and maintains it now. That's why we brought in an initiative with strong support. If the Galician People's Party had not wanted to, this initiative would not have reached the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] It has already been said - I am not going to repeat it - that it is a fundamental highway that vertebrates the Galician economy, that vertebrates the Atlantic strip, the most populated area of our autonomous community, but there is a very high level of dissatisfaction in users that has to do with the deorbited and excessive prices of their tolls, with the absence of bonuses for regular users and discounts as there are on other motorways, and because in addition there are infrastructures that have been committed that should have been implemented in another way, from our point of view. That is why we believe it is good to act through this initiative. We will also vote yes because it has full legal protection. We are bringing to the Congress of Deputies an initiative that has the support of Galicia's Statute of Autonomy, but also with the support of the Spanish Constitution. Mr Navarro and Mr Barandiaran, they do have protection in the statute of autonomy and in the Constitution, because such transfers are possible by organic law; they are even said and recommended in the constitutional and autonomous texts themselves. And we will also vote in favour of the new circumstances that have taken place in recent months. It has been said here by the Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group that in September 2018 there was the entry into this House of a new initiative adopted unanimously in the Galician Parliament which sets out some changes in aspects that will be essential in order to encourage us to reach a higher level of consensus at the stage of this initiative. That is positive, and that is why it is a new fact. It is also a new fact that on 5 December the Official Gazette of the State published the transfer of a State-owned road in the Basque Country and that it is out of step with the general network as a result of a negotiated transfer under the autonomy status of that community and the Spanish Constitution. We ask for exactly the same thing. This transfer is called for to be negotiated in the framework of a joint committee on transfers and, as my colleague Martín Prado said, we have come to ask from the very first moment to start working. The transfer must not mean loss to either party, but must be based on full agreement. We want a transfer but after having talked about the removal of the toll of Redondela committed by the government and that it has to materialize and after solving the issues that affect the links of Vigo and A Coruña, the orbital link of Santiago and other actions, such as those that have to be done in Chapel, that it is essential to undertake if we really want to provide a public service to the citizens. Madam President, I must necessarily refer to some of the issues that have been raised at this sitting. I would prefer to focus on the substance of the matter, but I cannot overlook the fact that a request has been made under the economic interests of a company. The representative of Esquerra Republicana quotes Abertis. Abertis is a company with a clearly Catalan origin, promoting the first motorways of the State, extended to the whole network of the territory and with the ownership of Catalan companies. You do not come to teach us lessons, but to explain that situation to us. [[Applauds]] I would also like to tell the Citizens' Parliamentary Group not to talk about changes of opinion. You yourself, on 30 November 2016, in the debate on a non-legislative proposal defended by a Member of Parliament from En Marea who did not speak today, spoke of a possible recovery of the concession and the subsequent assignment of her title and powers to the Xunta de Galicia; you spoke precisely of the AP9, of this motorway. I believe that you are out of play and that is why you are not in the Galician Parliament, because you are not in tune with your aspirations or the needs of our autonomous community. [[Applauds]] Finally, dear friends of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, how many times has the Socialist Party opposed discussing this issue in the Congress of Deputies? How many reports from the Governments of Dona Magdalena Álvarez and Don José Blanco have come to raise a criterion contrary to this consideration and to oppose the discussion of this issue? This is an undeniable fact; it is obvious to speak of unorbited tolls. We share it too, but it cannot be forgotten that it was precisely in 2011, when a change of government was taking place, when a real decree was passed that established nothing less than a ruinous operation for users of the Galician motorway. Cumulative increases of 1 % were established for Audasa for 20 years, in addition to the fact that the State would pay an annual fixed interest of 8 % for the cost of the works. I think this was a bad business and it's being paid for by users of the Galician highways. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We have the aspiration that this should not simply be taken into consideration. To move this forward, we need the consensus of all political forces. We have achieved this in the Galician Parliament. Let's do a smooth, non-streaking and non-demagogic processing, based on criteria of wisdom and good administration and thinking about users. Madam President, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u31	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to correct the effect of the implementation of the immediate information system on VAT management. [[SII]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Romero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u32	Thank you, Madam President. The measures taken by the Government of the People's Party against fraud and for the modernisation of VAT through the implementation of an immediate information supply system were beneficial both to the tax administration itself and to taxpayers. [[The lady]] The information system basically consists of the electronic delivery of the invoice records in the VAT register books, so that the communication is immediate, practically in real time, between the Administration and the taxpayer. The system entailed significant benefits for taxpayers, such as reducing formal obligations by abolishing the reporting obligation of models 347, 340 and 390, as well as the preparation of registry books; receiving tax data information, which is a great help in contrasting data; simplifying the reporting and avoiding errors that ultimately entailed new tax burdens; reducing bureaucracy, as many pre-implemented requirements of the system were intended to request invoices or data from them to verify transactions; extending the deadline for the submission of periodic self-liquidations within 10 days; accelerating and speeding up VAT returns to eligible taxpayers with no impact. The system, which was mandatory for 73 000 taxpayers, according to the latest data from the Government in February this year, was already successfully used by 54 315 and benefits not only large companies or VAT groups, but also SMEs and self-employed persons registered in the monthly VAT refund register and those who voluntarily decide to benefit from it. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to get an idea, we are talking about 80% of the Spanish production fabric. For the tax administration it has meant a substantial improvement in its relationship and communication with the taxpayer, bidirectional, automatic and instantaneous, an improvement in public service assistance and, ultimately, an improvement and efficiency of tax control. It is a very effective measure in the fight against tax fraud that has been copied by many OECD countries. The balance sheet of just over a year since the entry into force of the system cannot be more positive. VAT revenues from large enterprises have increased by 4.8%, above the nominal growth of the economy. In 2017, the results of the fight against tax fraud were maintained in historical peaks, with almost EUR 15 billion. The economic impact since the start of the operation of the system is estimated to be 700 million. However, like any new system, there are initially unpredictable effects that its implementation has manifested and that with this proposed law we intend to correct. In particular, as stated by the Tax Agency itself in its report of December 2017, the entry into force of this new form of management was accompanied by a delay in the deadline for the submission of declarations from 20 to 30 of the month following the month of filing. As a result, the one-month statements were mostly accounted for two months later. As a result, only eleven months of revenues were accounted for throughout the year for the companies receiving the new system. This effect is quantified in the State Tax Administration's own report at EUR 4150 million. For the central administration this is of no importance because the misadjustment is corrected in January 2018, but for the autonomous communities it is essential because it is a tax assigned to 50% and in the financing advance for 2019, which takes into account the final settlement of 2017, they could lose 2075 million euros, to which should be added some 300 million that affect local corporations throughout Spain. The Minister of Finance, who was already aware of the problem and asked for a solution, from Madrid tries to pressure the autonomous communities to support their budgets, budgets that are falling from Brussels and that know that they do not have enough support; in fact, they have not been able to take out the deficit path and the debt targets, something usual because, as we have known by the AIReF, although at an interesting electoral moment, the same failed to comply with the rule of spending since 2015 as a counselor on my land. Nothing new on the horizon, the Socialist Party does what it always does: with one hand it offers that the autonomous communities can be indebted by 28 billion more if they approve their budgets - money that they will return with their corresponding interests - and with the other they take away from the autonomous communities and municipalities the possibility of having 2375 million euros, money that they owe. Yet in red they make lenders of their own money from the autonomous communities and municipalities, a money that 70% is devoted to education, health and dependence, which are the direct competence of the autonomous communities, because what they really try to deceive the Spaniards who receive these services. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, nothing new; we have already seen the Minister of Finance mutating from the branch to the minister; he has also changed in his approaches to support the system of financing of the Socialist Government of Zapatero, as said by his former Presidents Chaves and Grinan, because we had a billion reasons in Andalusia to approve it, to demand the PP government to change it because it was very bad and because every year we lost a billion with the system, although they had left a hole in the coffers for financing 70 billion in tax revenues. Muta, Minister, going from asking for your immediate change to saying now, when you rule and with full tax arches, that this is not the time and that if you want money the autonomous communities that give you yours but with interests. As they have been demonstrating throughout the legislature, the Sánchez government is only right when it rectifys, so we ask you once again to mutate and rectify for good, for everyone's. We have been denouncing this situation for six months, and if this measure is not implemented, the autonomous communities and the municipalities will not be able to receive large increases in funding. Ladies and gentlemen, it is 2375 million euros that we can approve today without interests all here. Here is the refund for all the autonomous communities and the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, the amounts corresponding to each of them. [[Displays a graph]] He's in his vows. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, are you going to deny Andalucia 400 million in funding just because the Andalusians want a change of government? Is it me or against me? Mr de Compromís, are you going to allow the government that supports you to take away 270 million euros to improve health, education and dependency in Valencia? Gentlemen of Podemos, don't you think that Aragon should receive the 78 million that in justice belongs to all the Aragonese? And at the municipal level, are they going to allow the municipalities not to have the 300 million they need to provide their services? Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that this legislature gives no more of itself, that the government is unable to take or approve any relevant initiative, but this House has the floor to give those 2375 million to those who belong. I ask all the parliamentary groups in this House to put aside the colors because in autonomous communities and municipalities there are of all and the neighbors and their needs have no color. They support this initiative which will revert to better direct public services, health, education and social services, for the neighbours we represent and for the Spanish as a whole. Forget political tactism when voting and decide for well-being because it is a responsibility of each and every one of us. Nasa more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero Rodriguez. The Socialist Group has called for the use of the counter turn. Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor on his behalf.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u34	Good afternoon. Mrs Romero, you are such a scumbag; you are genuine scumbags, and I say that with total conviction. This is a useless and fruitless proposition, for many words that you have said by lying and missing the truth. Because the first question to be clarified to those who listen to us and to all Members of Parliament is who has created this problem. Tell me who created this problem. This problem has been created by you, created by Mr Montoro when in 2017 he set up the Immediate Information System, which gives an advantage to large and medium-sized enterprises, which are the 54 000 that host the system, and tells them: you will be able to declare not on the 20th, but ten days later, on the 30th. And Mr. Montoro did not realize that this meant that then November 2017 would be counted in 2018. The councillors of the autonomous communities had to leave saying, "Listen, the autonomous communities and the municipalities have forgotten you." Because of their dips, they obviously did not have something that is very clear and that is that it would be counted a year later, with which in 2017 they were only calculated by Mr Montoro and by the Government of the People's Party thirteen monthly VAT. You've created the problem by a dip. And the worst thing is that now you want to amend it with another chapuza, and you say: this is very easy; I do what I had to have done and I have never done in seven years that is to modify the autonomous financing system, Law 22; it is very easy, now I amend Article 13. But they do so without taking into account that it is an organic law, that this requires an absolute majority that they are not going to give it, because I announce that if this goes ahead it will decline immediately because it is not a solution. As I have told you, the initiative is useless because it aims to amend Article 13 and compute for the settlement of 2017 a monthly accounted for in 2018, as if it were so easy. It's an accounting artifact, an accounting hedgehog. Do you think that's how you give the accurate picture of accounting? Do you think that is in line with the European System of Accounts? I'm telling you, no. It is a genuine barrage, technically speaking, that would require, if it were to apply, first, the authorisation of the European system - which is not going to authorize it - but that, secondly, it would have an effect on the adjustment of the public deficit of 2017. Mrs Romero, please be aware of what you are proposing. [[The Lord]] I will tell you what the solution is, which will be in January. The solution that is even easier but rigorous, certain and that manifests the faithful image that public accounts require is to change the SII, the Immediate Information System, and to say that every month will be declared the 30th, except the month of November, that will be re-declared on December 20th. What does that mean? That, of course, we are going to regularize the situation again. [[Mr. De Olano Vela, standing up, speaks to Mrs. Romero Rodriguez]] Mr. Olano, let me address Mrs. Romero, please. [[Applauds]] That means that in 2019 we are going to count thirteen months of collection, and that means, for you to know, that the deliveries to the 2019 account are going to involve a transfer of more than EUR 25 billion to the autonomous communities and of EUR 300 million to the municipalities. [[Applauds]] Look at what simpler and simpler solution, without fireworks, without stuff and applying things as they have to be applied, correcting the error. You do not correct the error, but you had to acknowledge that you made a mistake and thus come here humbly recognizing the mistake made and posing that you believe it needs to be rectified. Instead, you're getting your breasts out. We must correct the error and the error is corrected in the way I have told you: by declaring November on December 20th and, obviously, in 2019 everything will be solved, both the 25 billion of the autonomous communities and the 300 million of the municipalities. Therefore, that is the solution, Mrs Romero. It is a simple, rigorous, correct and beneficial solution for the autonomous communities and municipalities that from January 1 will receive compensation for the liquidation of 2017. So simple, they do not need, I insist, neither sharp nor artificial; it takes humility, recognition of mistakes, exact correction of those mistakes, which is what we are going to do, correct your error. And I'm telling you more, we're going to include it in the 2019 draft budgets, which are going to be approved, you're going to make it clear; you're going to approve, you're going to move forward with the 2019 General State Budgets, and it's going to be included as one more measure. I turn now to the Parliamentary Group of Podemos, to its second spokesman, to whom I have great recognition and with whom I have great friendship. I tell you to take into consideration something that is very important and is that admission to procedure - regardless of whether it will fall, because this is absurd, it doesn't make sense and the correction will come immediately in January - do you know what it means? It means, no more or less, that the EUR 2 billion that Mr Montoro has left, we will have to pay for it on the lung in 2019. In 2019, if we did not change the Immediate Information System, we would have to pay from the state budgets an additional EUR 25 billion and 300 million for the municipalities, and that would go from the state budget, from the lung, because what they want is to suffocate the government, not to give it the chance to end once and for all with that austerity, with those budgetary restrictions that have suffocated public services and public institutions. Therefore, I am addressing Podemos and I ask you not to support, with either the positive vote or the abstention, the admission to the procedure of this chapuza, because I think it must be made clear to them that it is a mistake that they have made, that it is a mistake that needs to be corrected and that, of course, the form that they want to use is a chapucera form that cannot be admitted. This initiative must therefore be brought to a halt. I am now addressing the rest of the parliamentary groups, saying that it is clear that it will be resolved and that what they have not been able to tackle must also be tackled and that it is a new system of autonomous financing. What did the People's Party do for seven years with autonomous funding? To convene a committee of experts, a committee in which there were more private votes than agreements; it will pass into history for that, because the great majority were private votes. They did not agree because it was difficult to agree with the thesis and the approaches of the Government. It will exclusively serve - and it is very important, it must also be valued - as a diagnosis; it is a diagnosis of the situation, of the funding gap that the autonomous communities have. But this government in the five months it has been governing has already set up an executive commission, a commission with representatives of the autonomous communities in which it has been shown that there is a need for better distribution, but that there is also a need for many more public funds, because there is an inadequacy of the system. The principle of financial sufficiency is not guaranteed for the autonomous communities, and we have to start from recognizing that situation through that diagnosis made by that committee of experts. We have committed ourselves - and it is already under way - to setting up that executive committee and it is already taking steps. It was formed in August and is taking important steps, and the various representatives of the autonomous communities are passing information to complete this model. Therefore - I conclude - let us not be suffocated further by the proposals of the People's Party. They are not willing to support a new stability plan, a new path of stability that would mean an injection of EUR 25 billion for the autonomous communities and move from a deficit of 0.1 to 0.3, two more points, which would mean an injection of EUR 25 billion more. How is the People's Party now saying that we are going to contribute an additional EUR 25 billion? It's a lie. From the 2019 budgets we will have to draw 2 billion euros, but they do not want to be 2500 more, that is, we are talking about almost 5 billion euros that the People's Party wants to take away the autonomous communities. Our proposal is therefore rigorous, correct, immediate and, of course, the most favourable for the autonomous communities to correct a mistake, a mistake by Mr Montoro and the People's Party. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado. Mrs Romero Rodríguez has the floor at the turn of the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hurtado, a little respect, because I'm able to do two things at once. I've been listening to him and I never question a person I address in that way. I'm asking you, please, for as long as we know each other. I've always been respectful. What I know is that Minister Montero told the media, on the one hand, that she was going to give a loan of 25 billion for this issue - that's what comes out in the media - and, on the other hand, that she wanted to give 28 billion loans to the autonomous communities for funding. In the Andalusian Parliament, on 30 May, he said that the Finance Committee should now convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and that, if it were in the Government, it would do so, and now set up another committee; he said that it needed nothing more than the funding system that came out of the Andalusian Parliament, and now why not?Now, why don't you bring him in?; now, why not liquidate this money from the autonomous communities? Because it interests you to rinse the deficit, a deficit that will not rinse, because that of the autonomous communities also computes in the deficit of the state. [[applause]] He's not gonna rinse it out, and I'll send it back to the samples. AIReF has said that since 2015 the deficit presented by the Andalusian Government is not real. Now he's gonna come and change it? Are you going to change the deficit? We have 70 billion budget deficits and we have left them with a record of tax revenues. Are you telling me that this measure is bad and that this cannot be changed? To have changed it. They've had six months and they didn't intend to change it. They have been playing with the money of the autonomous communities to rinse the deficit of the municipalities, get out of the stories. If you wanted to help the autonomous communities and the municipalities have already done so. They could have taken that step which you say is so good and has Mrs Montero in the drawer to do it now and it would not have been necessary to bring this. If we have done so badly and so well you do so, why haven't you solved it? They haven't solved it because they have no interest. They are interested that this money accounts for the budgets of the State and has suffocated the autonomous communities and the municipalities to see if they approve these budgets, which are not credible in Europe or anywhere. And Mr. Hurtado, the less credible your group is. On 27 June 2018 - here I have it - in the Andalusian Parliament, the socialist spokesman, Mr Mario Jiménez, urges the Governing Council to urge the Government of Spain to urgently convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. As far as I know, it's December. Urgentness does not know who has it; urgentness has it not to give that money to the autonomous communities and the municipalities. Don't be fooled, because we're short money. Now it's 2500 they're going to give with a loan. Is the loan going to be free? No, no, Mrs Montero has already said that in 2020, with the 13th month that Mr Hurtado has counted, the autonomous communities and the municipalities were going to return him, apart from 2800 more loans paying interest. They've been doing it in Andalusia for 30 years, charging the local corporations for their own local money, why wouldn't they be doing it here? Ladies and gentlemen, you have little credibility. It is true that this system has given a solution, it has produced tax fraud, it represents 700 million euros more of revenue in the state's coffers, which are of all, of the public administrations, of the State Agency, of the Tax Administration, which can go to the neighbors reversed in social services. In his hand, he is voting in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u38	Mrs Romero, you know the last thing in my way is disrespecting anyone. I have not lacked respect at all, the only thing I have asked for, because I like to look people in the face, is that Mr. Olano, who was on his back and prevented me from seeing her and looking her in the eyes, allowed me to address you. That's all I've said. Of course, you know that I appreciate you and that it is in no way my intention to disrespect you or anyone, you know that these are not my ways. Returning to the subject in question, Mrs Romero, you have not answered me. Who created this problem? You had to have answered me, with all the humility of the world: this problem was created by Mr Montoro and this was a big mistake - as I called it, you were not going to say big mistake - it was an error that the Ministry of Finance made in defining the Immediate Information System. That's what you have to answer me. Starting from there, it's all easier, because why do we come here? Correcting a mistake. We are with the objective, we are perfectly with the objective. Mrs. Montero, being a tax advisor, was the first one who asked from Andalusia: "Hey, haven't you noticed what this means to us? And he said: We require the convening of an immediate commission in order to be able to compensate, clarify and correct the error. Therefore, starting from an error, we all agree that the object is to correct it. However, the approaches are very different, Mrs Romero, and I call the correction proposal by the People's Party a big one. Why? Because it does not comply with the European System of Public Accounts. You realize, I know. If you tell us, we will have to defend ourselves, but you are not convinced, you cannot be, Mrs Romero. Let's see, if I have an income accounted for in 2018, how will I take into account in 2017 the effects of an income that is not collected? That is to break the principles of faithful image of the accounting system and public accounts. That falls by its own weight. The amendment to Article 13 is a genuine technical and political barbarity. If the goal is to amend it, let's do it. We tell him that we have the immediate, rigorous, correct formula and that it does not complicate the public deficit of 2017. And the formula is very simple: let's modify the Immediate Information System. The profits that we have given to companies for eleven months are maintained, but in November we say to them: forward the declaration to the twenty days of December. We are not asking them so much; what we do is put things in place, correct the error, compensate the autonomous communities, which have the right to be compensated, and compensate the municipalities, which have the right to be compensated. We're not saying barbarity. And that is immediate, because the modification of the Immediate Information System is a ministerial order, it does not require any modification of an organic law. Mrs Romero, you know what it means to modify an organic law; an organic law needs an absolute majority. Here some have said that they will amend it and others have said that they will support it, but we know that it will fall. That's the support. That's why I'm calling her fruitless and useless. What I can't admit, and that's what hurts me, is that you try to make up by saying that you come to save the homeland, that you are the most autonomous in the world, the most defenders of local authorities and municipalities. No, ma'am. If you have made a mistake, acknowledge it. You have caused the Autonomous Communities to be damaged by 25 billion. Don't come up with that solution. If the Immediate Information System is not changed, in the 2019 budget we will have to pull out 2 billion euros more, and if you add up to the 2500 that you do not want to approve on the path of stability, we will have to pull money from under the stones, but of course you will never reach the autonomous communities if we want to compensate them. Therefore, common sense and sensitivity. Don't miss the truth, that's all I ask. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. The implementation last year 2017 - People's Party government - of the Immediate Information System opened the doors to the application of a new real-time management model of value added tax, of VAT, but created tightening for companies for their initial adaptation. [[The lady]] Problems have also arisen for the public administration itself as a consequence of unforeseen developments in this new tax control and, as Mrs Romero, spokesman for the People's Group, pointed out, there have been significant effects on the calculation of the final liquidation of the resources of the autonomous financing system for the past year 2017 with regard to VAT collection in that year. That is to say, if the collateral damage resulting from the regulatory change in the management of VAT is not corrected, there will be autonomous communities, in particular those of the common system, which will see the liquidation of their VAT in 2019 reduced and will lose one of the twelve monthly payments corresponding to them, which in the case of Asturias will mean a decrease in their income of around EUR 75 million, a decrease in income that will also affect the municipalities. Since last August, the holder of the Treasury has taken on the task of finding formulas to correct this major injury to the common system autonomous communities, which are participants in different taxes, among others 50% of the net VAT declaration without regulatory capacity. I don't think it's, Mr. Hurtado, a proposal for absurd law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u42	... because we are already in the final line of 2018 and the ministry has not yet concretely agreed with the autonomous communities on the solution to this problem. Therefore, the Forum considers it appropriate and necessary to take into account this proposal for a law, as it provides legislative support to correct the loss of economic resources that have a special focus on essential public services, such as health, education, social services and dependency. I welcome, Mr Hurtado, your militant optimism in predicting the adoption of the State's General Budgets in 2019, but speaking of the system of autonomous financing, it is no more to remember that the government of Pedro Sánchez has already expressly evaded to address its reform. The current autonomous financing system, developed in 2009 by the then socialist government of Rodríguez Zapatero, is now in force for a decade, to the measure of the then Catalan tripartite. For most of the autonomous communities affected - of course the case of Asturias - the current system breaks the principle of solidarity which, according to our Constitution, must inform relations between the different territories of Spain, but the government of Pedro Sánchez has already expressly renounced this. I shall vote in favour of this consideration, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u44	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's focus on the problem: 11 December 2018, who created the problem? Mr. Montoro. Who hasn't solved the problem? Mrs. Montero. This is the reality, the sad reality. I'm saying it, Mr. Hurtado, because they're gonna fix it, but they haven't done it yet. I'm sure they haven't had time, but do you know what the consequences are? You, since the ministry, in July, sent a notification of deliveries to the autonomous communities. Theoretically, the autonomous communities have to make their budget on the basis of that notification, but today, in December, this is not resolved. You tell us: we will solve it with the budgets. Man! I am no longer talking to you about whether or not to prosper from the budgets, but if you do not bring them to this House you will certainly not prosper. Therefore, as they have not brought them, this will not be solved with the budgets, they will be solved by a royal decree-law. And I don't think it's a bad solution, but, of course, this royal decree-law would have to be passed, because it must be remembered that Mr Sánchez, when he agreed to it, has passed a royal decree-law in twenty-four hours. The autonomous communities and also the municipalities are interested in resolving this in twenty-four hours, not to receive their delivery on account, but to enable them to make their budgets according to the real revenues that the Government is promising them but which their agents avoid including in the budget. This is the dramatic situation to date. We will support the consideration of the proposal of the People's Party. I don't say it's a big deal, but I say it takes a lot of work, among other things because your spokesman has appointed the municipalities here, but I've read all of your proposal and in it they don't solve the problem of the municipalities, nor do they name them. They modify the Lofca, but do not solve the 300 million of the municipalities. Therefore, if the procedure continues, we will amend this aspect like others. The Immediate Information System has created problems. Some, like this one, could be predicted and not predicted; others understand that they could be polished, but that does not create any doubt about the goodness of the system itself. Our position is clear: we will take this proposal into consideration. Mr Hurtado, if you present a real decree-law to modify and solve this situation, we would support your validation and surely then it would be pointless to continue with the process of this modification of the organic law, but we want to see your proposal, because we understand that it can also create some problem. It can create some problem for companies, and we don't have to make companies pay for our inability to solve the issue. In any case, what you can't do is wait longer. I really tell you, because beyond the fact that the advances that should be received by the autonomous communities have not yet been earned, they have received their communication and are obliged to make the budget with this communication from the ministry. In any event, I urge the Government to notify the autonomous communities immediately of what their income will be in accordance with these new forecasts, since under this they will be able to make their budgets in a more accurate and, of course, more flexible manner. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u46	Thank you, President. Sweep on, good afternoon. Today we are discussing the consideration of a proposal for a law of the People's Group for the return to the autonomous communities of the common VAT system of November 2017, pending settlement, as everyone has said here, for the delay that involved the implementation of the immediate system of information of that tax in 2017. With the introduction of this Immediate Information System, the date on which the companies settle the tax from 20 to 30 of the following month was changed, and the collection for November 2017 went from being collected within the same year to being registered in January of the following year, 2018. This meant that only eleven-month VAT revenues were accounted for, despite the fact that in 2017 the General Administration of the State received revenues corresponding to twelve months; a closure, that of 2017, therefore incomplete. This was due to the legislation introduced in 2017 by the previous Government, so it seems somewhat surprising that this group is now aware of the problem and asking for its resolution, when it could have done so before or at least had foreseen it, because this represents less resources for the common system autonomous communities. The point is that we are again witnessing a cross-up of accusations, on the one hand, the People's Group calling for solutions and, on the other, the Socialist Group attributing the gap to the previous Government. What is clear is that there is a problem and that it should be solved. The truth is that the Ministry of Finance has already announced that, in order to compensate for this gap in VAT collection, the Government would include in the 2019 budgets an interest-free loan to the autonomous communities for the value of the outstanding refund, which they would return at the time of the compensation, since they would then receive thirteen VAT monthly payments, and even the possibility of a reform so that the VAT settlement, as we have been told today, would be before the 30th day, but the truth is that today this problem remains unresolved. Today, the People's Group is coming up with a proposal for a legal amendment designed to include VAT collection, which, for reasons of the implementation of this system, is accounted for in January 2018 and not in December 2017, in the calculation of the final liquidation of the resources of the autonomous financing system for 2017 in respect of VAT collection in that year, which would therefore entail an amendment to the Act on the financing of the Autonomous Communities. This group usually abstains on tax issues that affect only the Autonomous Communities of the Common System, since they do not affect either Euskadi or Navarre, but today, given that the solution proposed by the People's Group would entail greater expenditure that could affect the deficit, not knowing what Europe could say, and given that the Government is apparently working on a better solution, which it intends to carry out either through the draft general budgets of 2019 or through a real decree-law, I do not know whether through the said loan or the modification of the system - which would have no consequences for the deficit - and, as I say, an issue of financing the Autonomous Communities of the Common System, it will exceptionally vote against taking into consideration the proposed law presented by the People's Group, meaning - yes - that this system has been good for tax control and for combating tax fraud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, excuse the voice. The subject is not simple and it seems that no one here has bothered to explain it. The immediate information system is that, for most of the VAT settlement collection done by companies that invoice more than EUR 6 million - i.e. medium and large companies, plus companies that voluntarily host the system, plus our exporters - only four days later the invoice data issued and received are sent. This means for honest Spanish taxpayers, for businesses, an effort, a bureaucracy, and this must be compensated. And how did you make up for it? Among other issues, giving them ten more days to enter the money, but they all enter it within the calendar year. What's going on? That the banks, according to the convention - which nobody here has agreed to -, enter it ten days later. As a result, on a accrual basis, which is the one which computes for national accounting purposes, the one which computes for deficit purposes, there is no alteration with the immediate Information System, what there is, on 31 December, is a smaller collection in the box, because the November payment of large companies has not arrived. How much money is this? That's 45 billion euros. Who says that? The December 2017 collection report, which is published in January 2018. Firstly, it is not true what Mrs Romero says as to whether this was unpredictable. Anyone who knows how the system is knows that if you enter later and if the box arrives later, as the autonomous communities take 50% of the VAT according to the net collection, that is, what is entered in the box, there will be a gap here because they will charge later. Nor is it true that this was demonstrated by the Autonomous Communities; this is reflected in the December 2017 monthly collection report of the Tax Agency, if not earlier. Once we have this problem, which affects exclusively not the 2017 deficit, but the financing of the autonomous communities of common system, we can exceptionally modify the 2017 liquidation, for which we have to amend Articles 13 and 20 of Law 22/2009, which is the proposal brought by the People's Party, which, by the way, is not correct, to begin with because the wording is questionable, but secondly because this will come into force in the following budget year, which in the end will mean that it will enter into force in 2020. That transitional provision is not correct. Having said all this, we are going to vote in favour of its consideration - therefore it will be taken into consideration - because this has to be fixed, and the way to fix it is not to create more problems for honest taxpayers to proceed with the payment of taxes, which is the proposal that the Socialist Party always brings us. That is to say, if there is only one problem of distribution between the State and the autonomous communities, what must be done is to fix that distribution, not to modify the immediate Information System by creating more formal obligations and by forcing, through errors and foresights of the various governments, taxpayers to pay the duck. Therefore, the system does not convince us, but, moreover, if this system comes into force, as proposed by the Socialist Party, in 2019, the only way for the autonomous communities to perceive this through the deliveries on account would be in the update of deliveries on account that takes place in the General Budgets of the State, and today there are no General Budgets of the State, there is no path of deficit; the General Budgets of the State proposed by the Socialist Party are a tax increase and do not have parliamentary support. To all this, the proposal that Mrs Montero is going to bring us is nowhere; in fact, Mrs Montero does not bother to attend the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] And do you want us to be EUR 2400 million, financing the autonomous communities, which are the financing of public education, health and social services services, exclusively to the word of Mrs Montero's delegate who does not dare to appear here? In addition, does this adjustment have to fall into the hands of companies and must it continue to be dizzy...? This can't be. We will therefore approve the consideration. Surprisingly, the Basque Nationalist Party, which says that it always abstains on matters of autonomous financing, votes against, it is not well known why, I have not also understood; surprisingly, one thing that the People's Party has never brought to this House is the adjustment of the value added tax that is foreseen for the outlying territories, which only in the Basque Country amounts to EUR 1600 million in the last year, of which EUR 800 million are from the autonomous communities. But of that, gentlemen of the People's Party, you always forget, just as you have forgotten all this time to try to update the system of financing the autonomous communities, when there are territories that are clearly underfunded and when the system is so complex that it is not understood by any of the governments and generates these conflicts that we now have. Having said all this, we will support the consideration because, indeed, there is an aggravated under-financing problem created by the People's Party Government which the Socialist Party Government has done absolutely nothing to resolve. Faced with all this, the only thing that has been put on the table, without being perfect, at least tries to find a solution, and that deserves this parliamentary group and this Congress of Deputies to study and debate it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Today the People's Party brings us here a law that draws attention because it seeks to undo one of the last plugs left by Mr Montoro, the plug of the immediate VAT information system, which has caused a hole of 21 billion euros in the collection of VAT handed over to the autonomous communities and another 300 million euros to the municipalities. The facts date back to July 2017, when the Montoro Ministry implemented the new immediate VAT information system in order to improve the digitisation of the tax system, a necessary change from an outdated VAT management system. This change involved a transit to a VAT-free handling system through the tax agency's electronic headquarters through a near-immediate supply of billing records, which a priori sounded good, which a priori seemed like a good idea; but, of course, a good idea in Mr Montoro's hands could become the largest of the plugs, and so it was. The application of this change caused, in cash terms, a delay of ten days in the settlement of VAT, which meant that they would move to the following year, directly affecting the autonomous communities and indirectly the municipalities through the total revenues of the State and their participation in them. While the autonomous communities had collected eleven months, the national accounts charged them twelve months of VAT, with a cash gap of no less than 4150 million euros in total. Moreover, this affects the municipalities, as I said, for their share in the total revenues of the State for a total of 300 million euros. It is urgent to correct this hole generated by the People's Party, which charged an error of the Central Administration, an error of the Minister Montoro on the already rough accounts of the municipalities and the autonomous communities. It should be remembered that the autonomous communities have been awaiting a reform of the autonomous financing system since 2014 that the PP did not want to face and that the PSOE unfortunately also refuses. It cannot be that a mistake by the central administration in managing a tax change carries a meagre amount of resources for the autonomous communities, even if that was Mr Montoro's approach at the time. In total, without taking into account these 21 billion of the VAT information system, the autonomous communities have an estimated under-financing of 23 billion euros to provide the basic public services they manage. Perhaps the best way to stop those parties that want to end the state of autonomy is to finance the autonomous communities sufficiently so that they can properly exercise their powers and provide basic public services of quality. We believe that this is the solution, and that is why we believe that this reform of autonomous financing needs to be addressed. As I said, the People's Party, when it was in government, caused this hole in the autonomous communities and then there was no haste to solve it either. It is therefore surprising that he is now coming here with a proposal for a law to try to resolve it, which implies rather hypocritical behaviour on his part. Moreover, the law is late because, with the current deadlines in this House for the processing of laws, this law would not be processed as soon as five months from now, which does not solve the problem of municipalities and autonomous communities. For this reason, we are not going to support this bill. We believe that the Autonomous Communities cannot wait and that this must be resolved immediately through the General Budgets of the State, that the Government should have already submitted, through a royal decree, a ministerial order or the tool at its disposal, but something that serves to solve a problem that affects the Autonomous Communities and the municipalities and that must be resolved immediately so that local authorities and the Autonomous Communities can design a budget with legal certainty. But, Mr Hurtado, that is why the government has to start operating. They can't ask us for blind faith in the government. You have to go ahead and put forward the appropriate measures so that we can rely on what you propose. [[Applauds]] However, I would like to say that we welcome this new line of work of the People's Party, which is to amend the mistakes of its previous Government, and I encourage them to continue to do so. We believe that this is the right path. I'm going to take these last few minutes to give you some ideas on where the law proposals you bring in the next few weeks can go. They can bring, for example, a proposal for a law to repeal the labour reform that has made work in our country precarious and that is responsible for the wages that have not yet recovered from the crisis. If they want, they can also present an initiative to recover the EUR 60 billion they gave to the bank without compensation. It also occurred to me that they could put forward another bill to collect the 28 billion euros that were forgiven by Montoro's tax amnesty. They can also present another to return to the municipalities the municipal autonomy that Montoro took from them and the cuts that forced the autonomous communities to make. Finally, I think that they could also table a bill to repeal the pension reform, which increased the retirement age and condemned the loss of purchasing power for pensioners in our country. We believe that this new line, that of seeking the forgiveness of the Spaniards and reversing the lavish legacy of the previous government, is the right one. Keep it up. We too are on it and we hope that this government of the Socialist Party will be ours, but give us reason to trust in it and hope for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u51	Thank you very much, Mr González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u52	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the promotion of measures to combat chronic loneliness. For the presentation of the initiative and of the amendment tabled, I now give the floor to Mrs Quintanilla Barba.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor today, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, and you are not going to hear any debates on budgets, debates on taxation or debates on VAT. This afternoon my parliamentary group wants to talk to you about our elders. He wants to talk to you about our primary goal, which is the quality of life of older people. They are a fundamental pillar in our society. They support much of the family economies, they exercise as caregivers - who hasn't heard of the grandfather or the grandmother kangaroo? - and they remain in Spanish society an engine of values and abilities that we often tend to obviate, forgetting that thanks to them each of us and of us we have been able to build what we now have, we have been able to build a future on equal terms. [[The Lord]] However, far from recognizing their unquestionable contribution, we are faced with a problem of first order, such as the life in solitude of our elders, which affects millions of people all over the world - as the major reports of the United Nations have made known - and to which there is no other possibility than to take urgent measures to ensure the quality of life and safety of this important segment of the population as our elders are. We cannot continue to turn our backs on people who need our political commitment and our social awareness, who need us to listen to them, who need us to make an intergenerational policy between older and younger people, who need us to count on them today, because the data from the social and health services of the autonomous communities are overwhelming. Do you know that in the summer of 2017 there was a rebound of 13% of the elderly abandoned to their fate? Do you know that between July and August 2017, 1358 older people, men and women, grandparents and grandmothers, were abandoned regardless of what could happen to them? Now, right now, in 2018 104 older people have been abandoned than in 2017, which makes 1462 older people have been abandoned to their fate. Do you think this is fair in the information society? Do you think it's fair in the communication society? Indeed, our elders live in solitude, more alone than ever before, in the middle of the 21st century. We have already forgotten that five generations lived under the same roof and today not even a generation is able to bear the elderly, when they have so much to give us, when they have so much wisdom to give us, when they have so much to tell us to continue building society of the opportunities of the future. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we are experiencing a great social transformation. In addition, fortunately for our quality of life, we have increased the life expectancy of each of us. In 2050, together with Japan, we will be one of the oldest countries in the world. Ageing means living, ageing means being, ageing means we have quality of life, but that aging has to be accompanied by quality, it has to be accompanied by living in a society that makes it possible for our elders to be present in the society of the twenty-first century. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, today we are in a society in which we have forgotten that each of these elderly people, men and women, have given their best and yet live alone today. Because it's not the same thing living alone as living in solitude. Today, unfortunately, in our country we have almost a million and a half older women living in isolation in their solitude. This parliamentarian does not say, according to the latest data from the National Institute of Statistics, that of the 4,800,000 people living alone in Spain in 2017, 2 million were over sixty-five years old, and of these, 1,410,000 were women, with a greater impact and exposure to social exclusion. In addition, most are women living in empty Spain, living in rural society, where older people see how their chances of social inclusion and interaction with the environment are reduced, turning all this into worse physical, mental and emotional health. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today I am going to ask the various parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments, and also those that have not, to approve this initiative because this initiative is for men and women over the age of sixty-five, because this initiative is for men and women who want to be heard, because this initiative has to look to the countries in our Community environment and see how the Netherlands, Denmark and the United Kingdom, without being older societies than ours, have already put in place measures to alleviate the loneliness of the elderly. Precisely, the Dutch Government has launched Action Plan One against Solitude, a very important plan with 28 million euros, where it makes a clear mandate for officials to protect, to assist, to watch, so that not a single greater person dies in solitude, for those over seventy-five years old who belong to the Netherlands, is worth redundancy. But the United Kingdom has also appealed to society as a whole and has launched the Secretariat of State for Solitude, which is also going to work side by side with older people. These examples must make us aware, these examples must force us to appeal to all of us, but also to society in general, to act with care, to give shelter and protection to one of the most vulnerable groups in society. Children are vulnerable, but when you are sixty-five, seventy-seven, seventy-five or eighty years old and live in solitude, vulnerability is much greater. That is why we must continue to work for the elderly, and that is why the People's Parliamentary Group brings this initiative, which is within the context of other initiatives that my parliamentary group, like the last one in the Equality Committee, has put forward to talk about the elderly. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are born alone and die alone, ladies and gentlemen, but in parenthesis loneliness is so great that we need to share life to forget it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintanilla. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position on this occasion, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. The two non-legislative proposals that we discussed this afternoon at the plenary session of the Congress have as a common link the policy relating to our elders. What Mrs Quintanilla, of the Group of the European People's Party, has just defended with convincing enthusiasm is trying to promote political action in the face of chronic loneliness, a matter which in other countries is considered to be of first order and, in fact, some of Britain's cases has created a kind of ministry against loneliness, as has just been pointed out. The ageing of the population, which in the specific case of Asturias has reached a critical demographic category further aggravated by a very low birth rate which, if not corrected, will deepen the problems of isolation, and the annexed problems, among which loneliness is one of the most important, require very broad measures. At the Forum, it seems to us that this initiative proposed at the beginning of the year remains very short compared to that adopted by a large majority in the Equality Commission at the end of September, and whose content of twenty-five points we value and revalue through an amendment to which we have incorporated a call to the Government to commit to the National Strategy of Older Persons for Active Ageing and Good Treatment 2018-2021, which was adopted a year ago by the plenary of the State Council of Older Persons, a body of which is a very broad representation of the administrations, as well as organizations, confederations, associations and autonomous councils of older persons. In the review carried out to develop this national strategy, speaking of loneliness, it is pointed out that the number of single-person households tends to increase in Spain, but this trend is much more pronounced in the age group than over sixty-five years old and, mainly, older women. The data has been endorsed by the National Institute of Statistics, which in April published that in Spain one in ten people live alone and 45 per cent of them are older than sixty-five years, mainly women. Thus, the number of single-person households in this age group grew by 1.4%, a figure of 0.3 points above the overall average. Mrs Quintanilla is drafting a compromise text to which some of my amendments will be incorporated, so my vote will be in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u57	Thank you, President. Today the People's Group presents us with an initiative that urges us to promote actions aimed at raising the awareness of society about chronic loneliness. In Catalonia we are very aware; in fact, we are so aware that we assume 80% of the expenditure on dependence, when in theory the Spanish government should assume 50%, and only 20%. So we don't need to be aware; what we need are more resources. I wish I could believe Mrs. Quintanilla, but with your party history it's complicated for me. In fact, when I saw this proposal from the People's Group, it seemed to me to be a bit of a mess, because while we are being asked to be concerned, you have wasted a lot of public money, and I will give you an example. When his ruling party spent 87 million euros to send piolins to Catalonia because, careful, the citizens of Catalonia wanted to vote. Why don't we sit down and talk, Mrs. Quintanilla? Instead of sitting down and talking, his party chose to waste public money and, by the way, to oust those citizens of Catalonia who wanted to exercise their right to vote. I insist that I would like to believe it, but, unfortunately, you have squandered to fill the decor of the circus that you have mounted. Thank you so much. Released political prisoners and exiles. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Loneliness is a real problem that affects millions of people around the world and has a special impact on the number of citizens who suffer it and on the lack of awareness of its situation in Western democracies. However, there is still no concrete evidence to indicate the actual incidence and consequences of the issue brought here today by the People's Group, which is talking about chronic loneliness in our country. We do not yet have data on the type of people who are alone or the age range of those affected, and without these indicators we will not be able to address either the shock measures or allocate the necessary resources to address this very important situation. Organizations in the sector such as the Spanish Red Cross, Doctors of the World, the Telephone of Hope, and Development and Assistance Foundation warn that this problem affects not only the elderly, but society as a whole. More and more people and older people are suffering from loneliness every day. This evil is common in rural areas, being particularly relevant in the unpopulated areas of the so-called empty Spain, for obvious reasons. The organizations I mentioned earlier point out that 60% of the people over the age of sixty-five we care for live alone and many of them live in a deep sense of loneliness. Spain is the second country with the highest life expectancy after Japan. On January 1, 2018, almost 9 million people over the age of sixty-five resided in Spain, that is, 20% of the population. Today there was news in a media outlet that in this semester of 2018 the number of births was the lowest in the historical series since 1941, which does not help to solve the problem. In 1950 this percentage was only 7%, and in 2050, as Mrs Quintanilla said, Spain will be the oldest country in the world. The percentage of older men living alone is 20%, while in women it is 33%. These organizations have also warned that the problem of chronic loneliness is already posing a major challenge, to the extent that national governments in our nearest environment have created structures specifically dedicated to the issue. Several previous speakers have also commented on the case of the United Kingdom, which has created a ministry called loneliness, and a fact - if we do not put a solution in Spain we will arrive at the same as in England -: 75% of its elderly live alone, 200 000 of them come to spend a month without having any conversation with a friend or family or without any kind of social interaction. Loneliness, moreover - I think it has not been said so far - has an important medical impact. Experts in the field point out that loneliness in people affects the physical and psychological level: depression, immunodepression, dementia or blood pressure. In conclusion, we have tabled an amendment which we believe is a positive complement to this initiative. We believe that it remains a little short in ambition and we hope that it will be included in this transaction that they have announced they are writing. I will cite a few examples of what we propose to combat this chronic loneliness: to carry out actions to support older people in their homes by encouraging permanent teleassistance and remote monitoring of households for the detection of risk in the most vulnerable elderly or to develop, for example, new models of alternative accommodation, encouraging - I think it has been said earlier - intergenerational coexistence, for example, the cohousing model. In this way, we conclude that social policies to prevent and alleviate chronic loneliness are much more than necessary through citizen participation, but also through administrations. Politics and volunteerism must be complemented in the fight against this new epidemic. The biggest challenge for Spanish society in the 21st century will be to face its ageing so that it is active, dignified, devoid of loneliness and economically sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, we're still in time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Clemente. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u61	The proposing group gives us the opportunity with this initiative to focus on a phenomenon like this, which is on the rise and is also already part of the political agenda of many countries in our environment. Unwanted loneliness is characterized by the fact that people who suffer from it have a lack or deficit of interpersonal relationships and feel loneliness as an obligation that causes them deep suffering. It is both a social phenomenon and a fundamentally personal experience, so its approach becomes very complex. In Spain almost 5 million people live alone and, of them, about 1.5 million suffer unwanted loneliness. It is therefore an issue that we must address as soon as possible and for the Socialists to deal with this reality is a priority. Hence the initiative we presented on 29 October, which addresses this problem by focusing on our elderly people. Loneliness increases with age and depends on life expectations. It is therefore the elderly who represent the highest percentages of loneliness and it is also those who express this disease as one of the main concerns. Also, many of these people are dependent or have some kind of disability, almost 40%, and let us not forget that loneliness in older people is, moreover, essentially female, almost 72% of women. We believe that population ageing can be seen as a success in health policies and economic development. In addition, our party has always been a driving force and guarantor of policies that improve the lives of our elders. The Government of Spain is working on this through the recovery of the Dependency System, the strengthening of the National Health System, the suppression of pharmaceutical co-payments or the recovery of decent pensions. For example: the average pension increase of 3.4% over last year, widow's pensions of almost 5%, and non-contributory pensions of 4.9%. Loneliness, ladies and gentlemen, is a new challenge facing modern society and must be prevented, and we therefore need concerted action. Not only must we support initiatives that are emerging in many municipalities or autonomous communities since the launch of intergenerational community projects, but we must understand the phenomenon of unintended loneliness as a social, political and economic problem whose approach must be comprehensive. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, seeing that your initiative was short when it was registered, in fact you yourselves recognise it because you have amended yourself, we believe that you will have no problem in accepting the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which seeks to improve its approach and go further. We propose that, with the autonomous communities in an agreed manner, a state strategy to combat loneliness be developed to understand and address this problem in an integral way, including, among other measures, the improvement of knowledge and information about the phenomenon or the development of campaigns to raise awareness, raise awareness and involve the whole of society about this phenomenon, always paying special attention to the situation of older women. With this national strategy we want to combat this kind of loneliness that many elderly people are suffering in the people. The depopulation, ladies and gentlemen, makes it much more acute and reflects the work of the Commissioner for the demographic challenge, which his Commissioner Isaura Leal has recently put on the table. And also in the big cities, without the possibility of social encounter and generational exchange, either in their homes or in the residential centers in which they live. We have to get to work, as a multitude of older people's associations and even the Ombudsman demand, because it is a reality that can get worse. As poor Labour Member Cox said: We cannot be willing to live in a country where thousands of people live lonely lives forgotten by the rest of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. The People's Party has presented an initiative which, in our view, has two things: one, it sees a reality without a doubt, and two, it proposes nothing. I'll explain. It may be very good that we spend the afternoon talking about things, even talking about problems, but what we are here for is to solve problems, not to talk, and in some way to make findings of realities that all they do is that we come, talk and then see the operative part, which is what we have to deal with here and see that the proposed solutions are similar to nothing. And we have to solve problems whenever we are competent to do so, because sometimes it gives us to solve what is not our responsibility either. In any case, what can't be done is to be the adalid in the defense of and not bring any tools for, because obviously later there have been amendments that to avoid the blush in some way have wanted to cut because what was being proposed was that we were aware of this problem and that we were conscious of society. I think we're here for something more than that. Does that question that the problem we brought here doesn't exist? Of course not. Is this a serious problem? Of course I do. Should we cut him down? Of course. The reality is very hard in this matter. I'm not much of Bécquer, but Bécquer in one of his sentences said loneliness is wonderful when you have someone to tell it to, and I think it sums up pretty well what we're here to discuss today. As has been said - and I am not going to repeat issues that we all share because they are observations of reality - we live increasingly in a more globalized society, we live in an increasingly individualized society, we live in a society in which we contribute more and more years to life, although I do not know whether we bring life to years in the way that we have more and more dependence, and the more we have, the more we need other people, the more disabled we can be and it is when we are more alone more than once. Undoubtedly the reasons can be many, and now we can make a long sociological analysis of reality, but society has changed, the family model has disappeared, the way of understanding family care has disappeared, all that has changed. We can spend hours crying for what was and is no longer or can assume that reality is another and what needs to be done is in front of the new reality, we like it more or we like it less. What we can't do is stand still. Let's invent new alternative methods, because if the models have changed, the solutions will also have to change, equal to worse, but that's what there is. Fortunately, some of us have already realized this reality many years ago and we have not waited for us to come here with a non-law proposal saying that we care about society because if we had waited for this to start doing something, we would be much worse than we are. In Euskadi, measures have been taken in this area for some time now, the Basque Government, the deputies and the municipalities together carried out several detection programmes which included approaches such as visits to people over 80 who live alone, home help, tomorrow mornings in centres, a programme called Lagunkoia, which in Basque means friendly, a friendly society for us to make a caring community, which is surely the most beautiful thing that can exist, that in addition to what the Administration does, the community becomes a caring community, a collaborator, which in some way complements what the Administration does not achieve. That is not an obstacle for us not to require the Administration, whatever the competent one, to comply with what it must do. Older people who help older people are realities that are happening in Euskadi with people like Nagusilan, which is a fantastic initiative, because there are still many older people with a lot of capacity and unfortunately other many older people can't and are people who collaborate with other people. Therefore, we must certainly create a community that cares for its elders and for its elders, because loneliness not only concerns the elderly. There are many people not so old that they live in solitude, and not only in solitude, but forgotten. Mutual care makes a society integrated and advanced. Societies that forget those that are not seen have a very short scope and have a very low level of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that this is a problem and it has to be tackled by those who are responsible for it, and I think we need to have a little more pull and bring in measures that really serve to solve these kinds of problems. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u65	Thank you, President. Loneliness isn't synonymous with living alone, is it? Living alone is an option that can last you all your life. And you can live alone without being alone. [[The lady]] Loneliness is a problem, it can even be an element of disease. Important is the paradigm, because if we do not know this we will be wrong and use statistics that do not correspond; statistics of living alone with those of loneliness do not correspond. Non-governmental associations are working on the issue of loneliness and comment that they have few means. Teleassistance or family work has nothing to do with loneliness or, fundamentally, this is not it. What have the British done? The British have done studies on loneliness, mostly with older people, yes, but it occurs in all ages, and they have come to a dangerous conclusion, and it is that loneliness relates to health problems, that loneliness has serious consequences, such as stress or smoking, and that many of these people may be alone living with people; being alone does not mean just being alone. They have come to the conclusion that nine million British are suffering from loneliness, and that it is not only those who live alone that are more. A comprehensive study has concluded that nine million British suffer from loneliness. That is why they have done a ministry, because they see that this is a specific issue that needs to be worked on. The People's Party has now realized that there is a problem but, by misanalyzing the problem, it gives bad solutions. A national strategy for the elderly was adopted very recently and there was not a single chapter on loneliness. Either you have seen the light, which comes from Britain, or, if not, you don't understand. In the Spanish State, which we know - I have been working on this - there is no study carried out at state level that shows the prevalence not of people living alone but of unwanted loneliness, of social isolation, which is something else. We do not have a map showing the loneliness in Spain, especially of the elderly. Some municipalities are working on it, such as Madrid or Barcelona, the latter with Projecte Radars, an excellent project to start working, to have knowledge, because if you don't get the diagnosis correctly you are wrong about the solutions. Poor little grandparents! Please, there are grandparents who are not poor, who have worked their whole lives, who are in full condition, who want to live alone, perhaps not to make kangaroos - and it's okay to make kangaroo, eh? - and who want their loneliness, which is not a problem of illness but of social relationship: they go out with their friends, they go to the cinema and they go to the library. But there are many others who do not, and with them we must work, and work well, with new procedures. The social services tell us that the programs would have to be culturally adapted, that they would have to make people work in these programs, that they take into account their individuality - fundamental -, that the most appropriate programs are those that promote an active and healthy life and, finally, that the most appropriate programs are those that are carried out in group, since they allow sharing experiences with other attendees, improve communication skills and establish new relationships. That's what we have to be on. Social services tell us that it is not enough to go to the person's home, as I have already said. We must involve this citizen in the group; we must give him self-esteem; we must do so in many ways, but with the means we have it is not done. We have to go to integrated actions; in the neighborhood itself to be possible. Perhaps we will have to wait for another legislature, but I hope that the governments coming out of the next municipal elections will be, as they have been so far, a beacon of alternative and hope. That's where we'll be. And let me tell you that this has known me little by little; even with the self-amendment, little by little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u67	Good afternoon. You see, it does not cease to be curious that those to whom we owe the Law gags, the second labor reform and cuts in our welfare system, and also to whom every day we see trying to reach with their positions of far right to greater sadness in our country, now worry about chronic loneliness. I would almost tell them what Nacho Vegas sang to them: They love us in solitude and they will have us in common. But on account of parliamentary responsibility we will have to give a longer explanation than the proposed part of this non-legislative proposal itself; in short, this is not very serious. You will see, I do not know very well what you consider to be the reason for this situation of chronic loneliness, since they do not pose either causes or proposals, but for us it is clear; there are two fundamental factors that have to do with gender and age stereotypes, and with the productive model; and both are not born in societies in a spontaneous and casual way in institutions, but have to do with, and are a direct product, with our laws and with our policies. They have very much insisted on presenting this non-law proposal in the idea that this affects older people more, but they resolve it by doing so by saying that this happens regardless of age or gender. [[Gives two slaps shaking hands]] Have you really overlooked that this needs to be addressed from a gender perspective? They quote the INE, they make it very clear that right now the feminization of the larger population is a fact and yet they do not go through the gender perspective, which involves breaking stereotypes and not thinking only of older women as caregivers or alone because the person they were caring for or who became widows has died; it goes by breaking those stereotypes by addressing the sexual division of labour; that same thing because when they registered this PNL they said they were not going to get into it. If they emphasize older people, it is not very clear to me what analysis they make, because in addition to a paternalistic look at generations that give us a thousand turns in experience of life, what we also see is that there are sociological stereotypes that have greatly affected our society, such as futility, isolation, unproductiveness, all that rhetoric that has to do with the productive system, and that at the moment when they stop serving in that productive system they want to become useless in our eyes. Thus, it is not uncommon for studies to say that those who have a more negative look at older people are precisely the younger ones. By the way, have you wondered about the loneliness among the younger people? Have you even wondered that loneliness, perhaps, has nothing to do with living alone or alone in a house? [[Applauds]] I stay with Spain that portrays Icíar Bollaín in El olivo, that 15-M Spain that looked at the generation of its grandmothers and grandparents and that has not stopped doing so since then, because we are in need of memory, of knowledge of the struggles that brought us rights and that have been erased; the names of those who achieved all those rights have been erased. Spain, in which the character who plays Ana Castillo tries to keep alive the memory and also the project of his grandfather, which has to do with the root of an olive tree, yes, but also of a village. So I take this opportunity to speak about the peoples, because they assume that, above all, this is due to the rural area. Today I was asking the writer Maria Sánchez if she felt this way, and she was saying to me: Man!, yes, it may be that a person who lives alone in a village, also feels alone. But to think that this happens more in the rural world does not stop being a very urbanite look, that it has nothing to do with how the ties of relations are woven within the rural, and also it would be a detail that we would stop talking about Spain empty or empty and start to say why, or to put on the table the experiences of the people who are alive, more than anything because if we remove schools and hospitals it would empty any part of Spain, and that has to do with making public policies that place lives in the center. [[Applauds]] In the time I have left, they're going to let me tell a little personal story. My guela - my grandmother - lives in the mining basin and a few years ago decided to do an Internet course for older people, in Mieres, and one day told me that she did not know if to do that course because she had put her hands on the computer keyboard and had seen them so ugly - those hands, who cared for three generations, who worked the earth; productive and reproductive hands and also invisible, like those of so many women - that made her ashamed. But, those pretty men and that goose beat that fear and did the course, a workshop for elderly people public and free in Mieres, because it's not about having brave grandmothers, with a lot of guts, thrown forward and willing to overcome social stereotypes; it's about having public policies that ensure access to economic and social participation, to full dignity, to physical, mental, emotional well-being, to accommodation that does not generate situations of dependency but of autonomy. Come on, you could take what the United Nations says in its World Assembly on Ageing and thus enrich your proposal, which is only one line. And they could also give a whirlwind to what we can do with our media and with our sociocultural idea to promote intergenerational dialogue, which does exist, but we must also give visibility and space. And, above all, two things: this is not going to raise awareness so that we take time out of our precarious lives to care for our own. This is not to blame young people now because they do not have time in those liberal model jobs that force them to work on their own in a slave way, because we cannot care for our grandparents and grandmothers. This is not because families assume it, because we already know on which shoulders it always falls and what price it has for health and for life. Nor do they intend to confuse the population by calling loneliness to what is precarious, to what is energy poverty or directly a complete absence of a country project. They tried to make us believe that their scam, the crisis, was our fault. Don't try to hold us accountable now for our sadness for a country that you have plundered with your hands full. They're not going to keep stealing our joy, nor are we going to let them charge us with the fault of what they're doing to our democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u68	I ask Mrs Quintanilla Barba whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u69	Yes, Madam President. We're working on a transactional that, when we reach an agreement, I'll get you to the Bureau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u70	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the plan for the prevention and eradication of ill-treatment of older persons. [[File number 162/000595]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u71	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the plan to prevent and eradicate ill-treatment of the elderly. Mrs Ramon Utrabo has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u72	Good afternoon. Yesterday we celebrated the 70th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a date that allows us to highlight what has been achieved, but which reminds us of the public authorities and citizens of the way ahead in the fulfilment and respect of human rights throughout the world. The abuse of older persons is a social problem that represents a flagrant violation of the human rights of millions of people around the world. In 2002, the World Health Organization considered elder abuse as a violation of human rights and a major cause of injury, disease, isolation and despair, and suggested that addressing such abuse required a multisectoral and multidisciplinary approach. We can therefore affirm that ill-treatment of older persons constitutes a major public health problem, including physical, sexual, psychological, emotional abuse, violence for economic or material reasons, abandonment and serious impairment of dignity and disrespect. Currently in our country more than one sixth of the population has exceeded the retirement age and as a result of the progressive ageing more than one quarter of the population will have reached it in the next twenty years. One in five people in Spain is over sixty-five years old, with 19% of the total population. The population's higher life expectancy challenges us to work so that older people not only live longer but do so in better conditions. Abuse of older people is a problem that affects all of us, and in this way we must feel challenged. This is what the international bodies, the Ombudsman and the main associations of older people in our country are demanding of us. Already in 2002 it was adopted in Madrid, at the Second World Assembly on Ageing of the United Nations, a political declaration and its international plan of action which identified as the first objective the elimination of all forms of abandonment, abuse and violence against older persons. Although this type of abuse has been a taboo issue in both the domestic and institutional spheres, it is beginning to gain visibility as a social problem in our country and throughout the world. Still, it remains one of the least treated types of violence in the studies and the least information we handle. It is estimated that one in ten elderly people have been ill-treated in the past month, and the risk is multiplied by ten in the case of dependent elderly people or with some type of disability. We know that this figure is far below reality, since it is estimated that only one in 24 cases is reported. As our initiative recalls, those who suffer from this type of abuse do not become aware of being victims or do not know or do not have the resources at their disposal to report it. However, in 2017, cases of persons over sixty-five years of age who were victims of family violence increased by 6.8%. We understand that this increase is also due to the beginning of an increase in complaints by victims and their families. Our parliamentary group registered this initiative in February this year, after alerting us of serious situations of ill-treatment in the Community of Madrid that were reported by relatives of elderly people staying in public residences both in private management and in public management. For socialists to fight against the abuse and abandonment of our elderly people is a priority and we work for their definitive eradication. That is why both our parliamentary group and our Government are convinced of the need to address this social problem from a cross-cutting approach that allows us to deal with all types of abuse, always taking into account the situation of our women. For this reason, the Minister of Health announced, among the lines of her ministry, the impetus of a national strategy for vulnerable older women. This measure responds to the peculiarities of this group because, for example, women who live alone are almost 75% of the elderly; it is also the majority who receive non-contributory pensions, in addition to other circumstances that suffer older women and which are a cause of special vulnerability, also characterized by multipathologies and the greatest risk of poverty. It is therefore necessary to adopt a cross-cutting approach to all public policies that take into account gender relations in old age and show the heterogeneity of the ageing process between women and men in order to break definitively with the patriarchal and univocal model that has not made visible that of older women. Similarly, a population approach should also be applied, in the sense that this problem is even more serious in rural areas, where access to basic services and resources is more complicated and where there is also greater social pressure. We therefore call for the development of a plan that focuses not only on the approach but also on prevention through awareness-raising measures aimed at the whole of society and the development of better scientific and statistical knowledge that improves its treatment. A number of amendments have been tabled by the People's Party, Citizens and Forum to this non-legislative proposal that we have tabled from the Socialist Group, and we are working on a compromise proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u73	Thank you very much. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, first of all, and this time it will also establish a position, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. This non-law proposal, which, like the previous one, revolves around the elderly, raises a matter which is also of particular importance. In fact, at the beginning of March we had a debate in the Committee on Health and Social Services in which an agreement was reached, the content of which I believe is much broader than the one originally proposed by the Socialist Group. Therefore, in order to ensure that in defending the rights of the elderly and combating ill-treatment we do not reduce the emphasis that we have achieved and have achieved in that Commission, my amendment is in line with putting into practice that widely supported agreement and not just in drawing up a plan in a matter where there is already quite a lot of planning. Therefore, it is essential that this initiative makes explicit reference to the very broad and detailed specific action line to avoid the abuse and abuse contained in the Strategy of Older Persons for Active Ageing and Good Treatment 2018-2021, which was adopted just over a year ago and contains about a hundred measures to respond to the awareness of the population, awareness-raising and training of professionals, the generation and implementation of resources, research and knowledge generation and also the updating of legislation in this area, an objective which also calls on legislators through a number of measures. In short, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a crucial issue in which Spain cannot take a stand, and indeed in this century we have been hosts of several world events in which important political agreements were reached in favour of the elderly and uniquely against ill-treatment, today and forever the whole of Spanish society is called to face the protection of our elderly, and since Forum we believe in the inescapable need to develop an integral action against the ill-treatment of the elderly in prevention, protection and assistance to the victims. Mrs Ramón Utrabo has just announced that she will take any of the amendments tabled into consideration, but in any case, in the face of a matter of such importance, my vote will be in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u75	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u76	Thank you, President. Proposing uniform state plans to us seems more like a symptom of the inability to take advantage of the assets we have, and we have many. What is really needed is to disseminate good practices, which are also many. It is not a question, as you propose, of correcting all or of wronging us all, it is a question of being able to put on the table all those cases of success and also help to replicate them, and to encourage cases of success what we need, I insist, are more resources. But it seems that this government, like the previous one, also prioritizes spending public money on other things, such as paying half a million euros for the defence of a single judge, also discredited internationally; also sending four hundred troops to Catalonia when in Catalonia what there is is a political conflict, not a violent conflict, and you know it, and as you know you are even more irresponsible. They fulfil their responsibilities; and their responsibilities are not to threaten advisers who do their duties. Nor is it to feed a story that you know is false. Stop silent in the face of the Constitutional Court's demise of office, because today the shame of the country is that there are four political prisoners on hunger strike because they denounce the blockade of the Constitutional Court on international justice. And you shut up and, in addition, participate in the dangerous game of homologating the far right. I'm done. Be responsible. Please explain to the Spanish citizens that those who want to exercise our right to decide the political future of our country by voting are not terrorists. Be responsible and explain to the Spanish citizens that the fascists and machoists of Vox and company do not represent the country you want to leave your sons and daughters. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u77	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to point out to Mrs. Nogueras that two hundred hooded gentlemen throwing fences... I see you're leaving. I'm gonna save it. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come here to discuss at this afternoon's sitting a little bit more special on our elders. It is always a nice time to be splendid and talk about good and that we are all in favour of good and good treatment, but they will allow me to reflect on the plural first person on behalf of all the Members who are here today. How do we treat our elders? Well, you don't have to go back too far in this place where there's so much talk about historical memory. Six days ago a session was held in this Congress of Deputies to honor our elders, those who had made politics when it was difficult, those who had left their lives in very peculiar situations. We sat in the front row - that is true - the Emeritus King and the rapporteurs, but what did we do with the older Members? What did we do with those survivors of the transition? We took them to the henhouse so they wouldn't take us apart. That's how we treat our elders. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you one thing that's even worse. Sometimes we talk here about mistreatment as something that third people do, but I would like to talk to you about institutional mistreatment, the mistreatment that our administrations do. Look. [[Show a photograph with a person tied to a bed]] I put it in black and white because in color it's very raw. This is how we treat our elders in the public administrations of this country. This is a shame. It is a shame because between 10% and 20% of older people living in homes live under conditions, almost 40% in geriatric centres and between 60% and 80% of patients with senile dementia. They live tied to a bed or a chair. That's mistreatment and it's a shame. Besides, do you know what's going on? That this practice does not improve fractures; there are more fractures. It produces more atrophy and more cognitive deterioration and, above all, it produces much more indignity. That's how we're treating our elders. That is why many associations founded the Unsubjected Platform in this country a year ago. For this reason, more than six hundred centres have been able to demonstrate that the practice of subjection can be abandoned. And for that reason Citizens presented in this Congress of Deputies almost two years ago a non-law proposal to withdraw the subjections in our country; and then another in the Health Commission and then another in each of the autonomous communities in which we are represented. And do you know what you, gentlemen of the PSOE, have done that you have commented on how concerned you were about the abuse in Madrid? In the Community of Madrid we put forward this non-legislative proposal and you abstained. You know why? Because, probably, these gentlemen do not vote and as they do not vote - but they do vote the carers and they do vote the nurses, but these gentlemen do not vote - you abstained, and you also abstained in Santander. That's an indignity. That is why we today, taking advantage of this non-legislative proposal, want to bring the matter back to the debate, because we want to put an end to the institutional mistreatment that this practice entails. Today is a little special for me, today Alberto has died, an eighty-year-old patient, who is the father of one of my best friends. He had been living with senile dementia for several years in his home, with the only ties of affection and love of his children. I hope, Mr PSOE, that you will accept our amendment, but, above all, I hope that you will bring to this House something that is not a declaration of good intentions, that is not a GNP, that is not a mere wish. You are now the government and it is you who have to bring a decree to end this practice at once. Then yes, gentlemen of the PSOE, I will tell you myself that you are the government of dignity. Until then, you are just a PNL government, a government whose only social urgency is that you do not get rid of Moncloa, that you do not get off the plane. Lords of the Socialist Party, free yourselves from their ties, from those ties which bind you to dreams of Slovenian nightmares and free all Spaniards from these ties. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Bolarín Sánchez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. While it is true that this afternoon we are discussing a social and hidden reality, it is not so that the debate is new, because this House, on the initiative of my parliamentary group, has put the focus on the abuse of the elderly already since the last legislatures; a concern that has also continued in the twelfth. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that in March this year a non-law proposal was discussed to establish the fight against ill-treatment of the elderly as a priority objective in the Committee on Health and Social Services, and two and a half months ago, a non-law proposal on ill-treatment of the elderly in Spain, both approved, was brought back to the now-called Commission on Health, Consumption and Social Welfare, and that they wanted to reveal the situation that many older people live in our country and solve it. Ladies and gentlemen, what has the current government done with the parliamentary mandate? Let me answer them: nothing and nothing is nothing. To date, it has failed to comply with the agreement, while one of the parliamentary groups that supports it has not done much either, because instead of demanding the implementation of the above-mentioned non-legislative proposals, what it does is breathe oxygen into the Government by proposing things they should be working on. Having said that, in an exercise of political coherence and responsibility, my group will support this initiative. That is so, hoping that you will take our contributions into account, which are none other than those approved with you on 26 September. Beyond the differences that separate us must be what unites us, as is the well-being of our elders on this occasion. In these days, when we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Constitution, I want to highlight the place they occupied in our Transition, in our most recent history the people who are now older; they played an essential role in the construction of our history, of our democratic Spain, an action that dominates them as one of the most important pillars of our society. Therefore, the public authorities are indebted to them and, as a recognised debt, it is our obligation to pay it by taking all the measures necessary to ensure their well-being. On the other hand, we must also bear in mind that our society faces one of the greatest global challenges, such as the ageing of the population. For the first time we are faced with a scenario where the elderly population is larger than the young population. Recognizing both premises and ensuring the quality of life of all older people has always been a priority for my party because of conviction and commitment, as well as responding to their needs and ensuring the necessary means to promote active and quality ageing. Unfortunately, however, there are still intolerable attitudes towards such people, such as ill-treatment, which often occur in the face of a desperate and unjust silence that must be remedied. The figures we have up to 2017 indicate that 7% of those over sixty-five years of age living in Spain suffer or have suffered some form of abuse, but this data may be higher because, as with other types of abuse, most of the time it is never reported. This afternoon, therefore, we are bringing to light a very fragile and very vulnerable group, and for that reason, it is of the utmost importance to provide them with the utmost attention and protection in all areas, even more so when we talk about women or persons with disabilities or in a situation of dependency, since in such cases we may find ourselves faced with situations in which there would be double or triple abuse. We therefore request that the Congress urge the Government to implement, within its competence and with the participation of organizations for the rights of the elderly, a plan for the prevention and eradication of abuse of the elderly that addresses all types of abuse in the different environments in which they occur, taking into account the gender approach, as well as situations of disability or dependency. Furthermore, considering the measures we propose through our amendment, it is a great step in the right direction already marked by my parliamentary group, but, as I said at the beginning of my speech and we all know that we have good intentions, for that reason it is imperative that the Government comply with what has been agreed this afternoon and do not ignore it, as it has done with the proposals of my parliamentary group. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the abuse of the elderly is a great drama that has constantly worried and occupied my parliamentary group throughout all the legislatures. That is why I repeat our yes to the initiative we discussed this afternoon, hoping that it will not fall into a broken bag. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u81	Thank you very much. The Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti, took part in the position-setting session.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u82	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Group brings us a non-legislative proposal that seems to be a continuum from the previous one, not in the spirit of criticism, but rather that we have made a sort of monograph on problematic situations of the elderly. In any case, the Socialist Group proposes to us a GNP to which we make a fairly similar reading to that we made to the previous proposal for a law of the People's Group. This non-legislative proposal shows some facts, no doubt real ones, and raises a rather innocuous, rather sterile solution. Having heard Mr Sahuquillo before and seen what you have said now, it seems that you are solving everything with national plans; where there is a national plan, that is, a solution. I am quite sorry to see that the previous speakers - I have listened to many, not all - have done what they have done is repeat observations of the reality that we all know, but solutions to the very serious problem that is being discussed - and that is - few. Either we are not capable or perhaps this is not the place - I share that in many matters this is not the place for it, because the area of competence where it is appropriate to solve it is another - but, in any case, I do not think that is the spirit of those who have preceded me. Therefore, few solutions have been found here. We can talk long and hard about the situation of the elderly and the abuse that many of them suffer. It is certainly a finding, but we believe - I repeat - that the solution proposed by the Socialist Group is not the most effective one. I'm not saying it's not well-intentioned, but it's not the most effective. Why? Because he puts on the interterritorial council some things that don't belong to him. The Interterritorial Council - in this case the Social Services Council, but the same could be said of the Education Council or the Health Council - is not an assembly in which we decide what we do and, according to the majorities that come out, the autonomous communities apply what the Interterritorial Council decides; the Interterritorial Council has no legal capacity greater than that of the autonomous statutes. Therefore, the councils will speak, raise issues, but each autonomous community will do what it deems appropriate and competent in its field, and in this case it is. Therefore, the interterritorial council will be an element to listen to and to pose. So it is a mistake what you propose, that it be the interterritorial council that resolves this. In addition to saying that it cannot send what the autonomous communities should do, thank God, fortunately, some communities are not waiting for the interterritorial council to make that famous national plan to act. In Euskadi, for example, this has not caught us looking elsewhere. Fortunately, we have been working on this for a long time, including the Socialist Party, which has contributed by doing things in the area of social services and in preventing and combating abuse of older people. It has been a long time since the Basque Government - in fact, more than the Basque Government's common institutions - established this procedure for the prevention and detection of physical and economic ill-treatment of older persons in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. All this interinstitutional work not only reveals a reality; no, it sets out criteria for prevention, detection and intervention, because I think it is quite important that the three steps be followed. In his preamble, it is said at a time that ill-treatment of older persons often occurs even unintentionally. There are people who suffer from some kind of abuse and the abusers have not done so consciously. It is therefore important to know that these elderly people do not even know that they are being mistreated. They should know what kind of abuse they suffer, because there are not only physical abuse; there are also emotional, economic, resource management abuse, etc., which affects many older people who, of good will, put their trust in others and then end up suffering abuse. This reality and others are detectable, they must be prevented and action must be taken on them, because, if we do not act, all we do is talk. It seems that today we are to talk about wonderful things, but to solve, a little bit as far as this is concerned. Measures to tackle must be supported by basic social services; the community must act. This one with what I said before: detection capacity cannot be in the hands of the Administration alone, we must create a community that is able to tackle these problems, that is able to detect and that is able to prevent. Let us therefore let those involved in this matter work. In the case of Euskadi, I think that the parliaments, the municipalities and the Basque Government have done a fantastic job with the collaboration of a great many professionals. Let them continue to work and in the autonomous communities that are competent to do so as well. It seems that they are much more effective than national plans in the interterritorial council which, for now, I do not know if they are worth anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u83	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u84	President, Members and Members, it must be made clear: until we entered the 21st century, the abuse of older people did not exist, it seemed that it did not exist. The World Health Organization addressed the issue in 2002 in the Toronto Declaration, previously there was no such issue, and still today the existence of ill-treatment of older persons has not yet been sufficiently recognized. If not, today we would not be talking about this issue here, we would have worked and solved it in many areas, but if we are talking, no one can deny that we are talking about this issue and about issues that have nothing to do with this issue, by some or others, that have nothing to do with this issue. Look, the same Toronto Declaration contains different forms of abuse: physical, psychological, emotional, sexual, financial, or simply reflect intentional or unintentional negligence, as discussed here. But institutional abuse has been added to these forms of abuse in recent years. Yes, Mr Igea, you are right, there is institutional abuse and there are deplorable practices that we would have to eradicate. But it will have to be put on the subject, as well as on the abandonment and violation of the rights of older people or as self-neglect itself, which also exists. In the world the number of older people increases and this is a good symptom, the bad symptom is that it increases inequality and this affects the most vulnerable, because when we talk about older people we have to talk about older vulnerable people, which is the one who is suffering, because there are older people in bank directions who do not take them out or with bleach, do I explain myself? There are older people who not only don't get ill-treatment, but they abuse many other people and nothing happens. [[Applauds]] To this end, it is necessary to know, describe and define the ill-treatment that this vulnerable group suffers in order to prevent and prevent them. We are faced with a phenomenon of dimensions, he said, still little known. We use statistics that serve one topic and another, but we deny universities the means of research to give us the necessary means and the work to make good diagnoses. [[Rumors]] The problem requires socio-health, police, cross-cutting measures to eradicate it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u86	In the last twelve years in Catalonia - it's not to be presumed, it's simply the community I know, nothing more than this, I'm sure that elsewhere important things have also been done - we started with protocols, protocols of a provincial nature bringing together magistrates, prosecutors, police officers of the different types of police we have, social services and administrations, because protocolizing means working cross-cutting. In Girona we did it in 2007, eleven years ago; I was part of it and I am very proud. But this also allowed us a protocol at the Generalitat level in 2012. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u87	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u88	And this situation has allowed us very recently the Barcelona City Council, leading the group of administrations, to have done a specific procedure of action on the abuse of the elderly, the Barcelona Health Consortium. [[Rumors]] This is the way. These are not major discussions in this Congress, it means facilitating the media, cross-cutting work, without suspicions between administrations, so that this objective, which is the prevention of the abuse of older people, is really the competence of everyone. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u89	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u90	In that we are some because we can walk and eat gum, because we can be independenceists and have a deep feeling for social improvement, and because we do not make the topics pretext for others. That's what we're on and we're on. We will not say no to the Socialist Party's proposal, but, as I said before, add and follow, this is the way forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u91	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Marcello Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Socialist Party proposes that we agree to initiate a plan to prevent and eradicate abuse of older people. The mere fact that we are talking about this reality today is already in itself a sign of the failure that we are as a society, not because we are debating it but because of the existence of this reality itself. People throughout the history of civilization came together for two reasons: one, to protect themselves and defend themselves from animals collectively and, two, to care for the weakest in communities. If we start from this thesis, that the weakest in a society are the elderly, we can say that it is a genuine aberration as an advanced society - which is what we call ourselves - that today we are seeing how we face this reality as harsh as violence towards our elders. Whether we like it or not, this reality remains a taboo both in society and in the professional sphere; it is still considered an inter-family problem, but not only is it not spoken in the family sphere, but it is also not spoken in the professional sphere and until very few years ago the attention and research it needs has not been devoted to it. This lack of knowledge makes it difficult to make accurate estimates of the prevalence of abuse or neglect of older persons. But, despite these few studies, there are statistics that indicate that in our society, out of every six elderly people, one suffers some kind of abuse, and the World Health Organization itself states that, according to forecasts, this figure will increase due to the ageing of the population. We therefore welcome this initiative and will support it, but we are beginning to take steps, starting to recognize that this reality exists and that is why it is necessary to legislate, and the title of its non-law proposal sounds good: prevention and eradication of abuse of older people. Music also sounds good because it speaks of the need to do it from a gender perspective and to attend to and value situations of dependence, but let's go a little further, let's go deeper on the lyrics, let's concrete what this is about mistreatment of our elders. We will also do so in accordance with the definition of the World Health Organization, which proposes and considers that ill-treatment of older persons constitutes a major public health problem, including physical, sexual, psychological and emotional abuse, violence for economic or material reasons, neglect, neglect and serious impairment of dignity and disrespect. On the basis of that analysis, what will a simple plan to prevent and eradicate abuse of older people serve as an entity parallel to the rest of the policies being pursued? What use will we give you if this very Friday on Argumosa Street 11 a 65-year-old woman - elderly person - has an eviction order despite having a UN resolution that says that the eviction must be stopped if there is no housing alternative? Isn't that institutional abuse? What will this plan do if we continue to see how more than 2.4 million people show financial difficulties in coping with their medical treatments? [[Applauds]] This reality affects and is directly linked to the financial capacity of our elders, and more directly affects the lower pensions, and casually again remain the women most affected. What good is a plan, a simple plan, which is what you propose to us, if we do not have a public system that guarantees the right to care and care? Why a plan if we continue to be unable to care for all dependent people? Because, ladies and gentlemen, a ruling party, in this country every fifteen minutes a dependent person continues to die, especially elderly people, and there is no simple plan here. Is this not still an institutional abuse of our elders? This whole reality in part is a direct consequence, and we know it, of the cuts of the People's Party and the dismantling of the known State of Social Welfare, and that is why we are not going to oppose this same plan, but not as something extra, not as a simple proposition not of law, but that this is a task that must be cross-cutting to all social policies. You should not focus your legislative task on a mere policy of make-up of dramas by sector. Be brave, legislate from a logic of good treatment, and that goes by implementing educational policies in which the figure of our elders is not seen from a logic proper to pure capitalism, the valleys as much as you produce; that old age is not seen with a mercantilist perspective, a niche market for vultures who want to manage our rights. It goes on to implement feminist policies that are cross-cutting to all social policies. If we talk about the scourge of sexist violence, it becomes more acute when we talk about older people and especially women. It also reorganizes the care system; legal guarantees must be given that all people have the right to be cared for and cared for, not in a simple plan, but in a genuine policy of care and equality. It goes on to deepen the processes and culture of care; something is being done wrong if we continue to see that in residential centers our elderly people continue to be abused, residential centers where the staff is increasingly scarce and the precariousness is both of the staff they attend to and of the staff they attend to. That's about fighting all kinds of violence and putting our lives at the centre of everything. That is why you, the government of Pedro Sánchez, are currently in a position in which you have the capacity to determine people's living conditions, and from that position you are not worth sector-specific retouching policies, you are not worth patches, you need comprehensive policies in defense of the strong and stable social protection system. Do it now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u93	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Ramón Utrabo whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u94	Madam President, we are precisely negotiating a compromise that we will send to the Bureau as soon as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u96	We continue with the debate on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Government's policy of empowering the highest levels of the judiciary. [[Mr. Campuzano]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We present in the last plenary an inquiry to give independence to the judiciary, nothing more. In fact, the minister acknowledged that the judiciary suffered from a lack of independence when she assured - and I quote textually - that one of the biggest problems is the lack of confidence of citizens in justice and also acknowledged the interference at that time of the people's government in justice. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u98	Silence, I beg you, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u99	The minister herself therefore acknowledged that interference with the judiciary may occur. In fact, it is not only possible on the part of the Executive, but it is also possible on the part of other actors, external pressures. I am sure that all of you are very aware of the correction made by the Supreme Court of a judgment already handed down - an unusual case - which recognized that the bank was paying. And after pressures, possibly affected, ended up changing the criterion to which the bank wins. This caused disquiet in millions of people. In Sabadell, my city, there were so many people who told me that they felt helpless, frustrated, helpless. They had seen some light when the Supreme Court recognized the existence of abusive clauses, but the change of view - unheard of, as we said - would bring them back to the previous moment, at the time of having to continue paying. Today, ladies and gentlemen, with this motion, we intend precisely to start laying the foundations for building a new impartiality of justice. It is therefore urgent that we continue with the renewal of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, because we cannot continue to allow the Spanish State, repeatedly, to violate the recommendations of European bodies, such as, for example, the Greek. Today, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister says, citizens lack confidence in justice, something that is evident when the Spanish courts are at the service of a single and concrete idea of the state and pursue the dissident even with prison, even violating his fundamental rights. I want to point out from this rostrum that today in the Spanish state - it has been said several times - there are political prisoners, there are exiles and there are political prisoners on hunger strike. And you know why they're on hunger strike? They are doing so to demand that the Constitutional Court resolve, not in one sense or another, but to resolve so that they can thus have the means to exercise their legitimate right of defence, in this case before European courts, specifically before the European Court of Human Rights. Because it is true that human rights are violated in Spain. Belgium said this, which gave protection to a Spanish citizen, Valtònyc specifically, who appealed to European justice because he is persecuted by Spanish justice for the lyrics of some songs. The perception of lack of judicial independence, which undermines the very foundations of the system, should be reversed. It's necessary that we continue... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u100	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u101	...with the renewal of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. It is unheard of the ceremony of pressure and counter-pressure that we attended in order to be able to place in front of a president of the pleasure of the two majority groups, president who eventually resigned. A name was agreed on behind the backs of the Constitution that so much hang, even behind the backs of the members themselves who had to be of the Council and who had the competence to appoint it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not continue to deal with the reform of the General Council of the Judiciary as soon as possible and, therefore, in accordance with the wording of our amendment, as soon as possible, we will not make progress in achieving independence for the Spanish justice system, in particular for the senior officials of the Spanish justice system. We have prepared a text purportedly short and purportedly open so that everyone can feel comfortable and be able to vote in favour of it and thus continue the work of renewal of the Council. We are not going to accept any amendments because the text is short enough for everyone to feel comfortable and the House itself to signal that it is going to make progress in the right direction. We will therefore maintain this text in order to continue the renewal of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. We need to finish this renovation. Today we have an expired General Council of the Judiciary, which will continue to make appointments to its liking even if this expired and, therefore, following with interference and putting related ideologies, related perceptions or similar conceptions in the only way to understand the State; it should be reversed as soon as possible. In addition, it is an expired General Council of the Judiciary, with an organic law being processed in the Senate that is, specifically, changing the model of the organ. It is therefore appropriate not to stop the process of renewing the council, to approach it from this House as soon as possible, and we therefore ask your ladies and gentlemen to support the text of this motion, which is supposed to be open, so that everyone who wants judicial independence to begin to enlighten the high bodies of the General Council of the Judiciary will vote in favour. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u102	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u103	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Over the past few years we have witnessed the most controversial scandals that have occurred in the world of justice, which has been falling into unprecedented disbelief. First of all, I would like to thank you immensely for the daily work done by the judges and magistrates of the courts of first instance and investigation throughout Spain. Every day they impart justice despite all adversities and lack of personal and material resources. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u105	We must face an urgent change in the judicial dome. Society is calling for this and we should not be afraid to open the debate. There is so much to say and correct in this matter that I have had to make a real effort to sum up the most scandalous. I begin with the President-in-Office of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Lesmes. This gentleman will remain in office temporarily until the next general election if we do not all do something to avoid this. [[Rumors]] I know there's a lack of interest, but a little respect, right? Mr Lesmes is taking advantage of these moments to completely end the judicial system, and a member of the same General Council of the Judiciary - textual words - says: He is taking advantage of what remains to name the most intense, the most rabid of the PP. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u106	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Go on, Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u107	Thank you, President. Where is judicial independence when Mr. Lesmes has appointed Mr. Juan Pablo González as president of the Madrid Provincial Court, a judge excluded from the Gürtel case for his affinity with the People's Party and the FAES Foundation, in front of a candidate who surpassed Juan Pablo González in all the barems of the call? Where is judicial independence when a high office of the judiciary, with a seat in the Supreme Court, ensures that the recent blockade we have experienced in this House with the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary is affecting the rulings that are being handed down, such as the recent Supreme Court ruling on documented legal acts, in which Mr Lesmes himself had to go out and ask for forgiveness? Where is judicial independence when Mr Marchena resigns from the post of President of the General Council of the Judiciary when he has not yet been appointed? By the way, the appointment and voting that corresponds to the votes. Where is judicial independence when the bill proposing to judge Pablo Llarena as a judge of the Supreme Court is falsified? Where is judicial independence when Mr Llarena is granted protection outside of time by pressure from Mr Lesmes? Where is judicial independence when Judge Llarena's wife is suspected of bribery? Where is judicial independence when the associations of judges and magistrates themselves call for a model change and are completely ignored? Where is judicial independence when nine political leaders of the Government of Catalonia are held, two women - Dolors Bassa and Carme Forcadell - and seven men, more than a year in provisional detention without trial, without cause and without legal arguments and whose immediate release Amnesty International has requested? Ladies and gentlemen, the hard hand with which Mr Lesmes has managed the General Council of the Judiciary over the past five years has caused great tension and strong criticism, which has accompanied him since his appointment. We cannot allow the almighty Mr Lesmes to remain in office as President of the General Council of the Judiciary. If a month after leaving office he did what he did with the mortgage judgment, what he won't do from now on. Our group has called four times for Mr Lesmes to appear in the Commission, which has been denied to us - a great and serious demonstration by the Government and the majority parties of their unwillingness to resolve this situation - and reiterates their resignation now. Our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the motion of the PDECAT Parliamentary Group, by which we believe that, despite the limitations on radically changing the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, they should be elected by the judges themselves. The system we propose is the most plural and best reflects our society. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot stand idly by. It is our responsibility to act and do so now. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u108	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion brought to us by the PDECAT Group refers to a constitutional principle, that of the independence of the judiciary, which is dear to our party. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u110	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u111	Mrs Ciuro has shown herself both in the inquiry and in this motion very concerned about the lack of independence of the judiciary, very concerned about the separation of powers, which she says is neither expected nor expected, and even refers to the fact that the Spanish Transition does not have the exemplaryness that has been rhetorically proclaimed. Your ladies and gentlemen know that for us the quality of our institutions is absolutely necessary part of the essential democratic regeneration. I would say that the defence of the independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers are, more than our concerns, our obsessions, what surprises us is that those same obsessions are now those of the Catalan Democratic Party. Your Honor, the first thing I have to say to you is that I absolutely disagree with you that human rights are being violated in this country. Not at all. We have a system of protection of fundamental rights that is absolutely homologable with that of the most leading countries in Europe. I have no doubt about this, just as I have no doubt about the work of each and every judge and judge, the prosecutors, the officials of the Administration of Justice, who carry out their work irreproachably in our country, especially in places where they have difficulty doing so because of the harassment they are suffering, as is the case in Catalonia. Mrs Ciuro, it is very striking your sudden interest in the independence of the judiciary, because we all remember how last autumn you, who presided over the Generalitat and had a majority in the Parliament of Catalonia, passed, violating the Constitution and the Statute itself, supposed laws that established that in that new Catalan republic the power to appoint judges rested with the President of the Generalitat. You, so concerned today with the separation of powers, had reserved yourself more than exceptional powers, very exceptional, so that the president of that new state, according to a law that you called legal and founding transitionality of the Republic of Catalonia, would be the one to appoint judges in that task of guiding that transition in Catalonia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u112	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u113	I don't know what legitimacy you come here with now to question our judicial system. [[Applauds]] And since you have allowed yourself to criticize the Transition, which says that it lacks exemplaryness, let me look at our Transition in the light of that other regressive transition that you raised just a year ago, let me look at our Transition in the light of these forty years of constitutional democracy, let me compare those laws of mine, of yours, of ours, with which you perpetrated just a year ago and with which you intended to violate the rights of all Catalans, let me make comparisons and let me draw my breast; let me take heart from this constitution of ours that is forty years old and that of course has a much more precise system of defending the rights of all that you intended to impose a little year ago. Therefore, let me also be skeptical of your sudden concern for the independence of judges in Spain. You, who have harassed Mr Llarena inside and outside our country; you, who have demanded from your partner Mr Pedro Sánchez that the Executive interfere in the judicial process that investigates the most serious criminal acts that culminated in a coup against our democracy in Catalonia; you, Mrs Ciuro, lack any credibility to speak of separation of powers and respect for the independence of the judges. [[Applauds]] In the light of your history in relation to the election of members of the General Council of the Judiciary, I will quote two names, Mrs Ciuró: Luis Pascual Estevill - surely you remember -, who in 1994 was appointed by you to be part of the General Council of the Judiciary and barely two years later accused for the most serious crimes that a judge may commit, for the sake of prevarication and for illegal detention, nothing less. And closer I'm going to quote you another name, Mercè Pigem. Remember? Ex-convergence deputy, appointed as a member of the General Council of the Judiciary, who had to resign shamed for having been caught - she and her sister - with illegal money on the border with Andorra. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, your trajectory is nothing exemplary as to come here now to give lessons in defence of the independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers, but it is true that we need to change the system of choice of council members, it is true that we have to end the perverse system of party division of the council chairs, it is true that this is a cry, it is true that, in the light of what has happened, of the latest events, of Mr. Cosidó's wasap, which revealed what were the hidden intentions behind that system, we have a magnificent opportunity at this time to change the system, to address that inescapable reform already, inseparable from the improvement of our institutions, which is the reform of the system of choice of council to recover the true spirit of the Constitution, to recover the spirit that was perverted from the year 1985, which in no case spoke of bringing party division within the council. We have a great opportunity, and that is why I want to address the Members of the People's Party and the Socialist Party Members today. We have an opportunity to rectify those mistakes, we have an opportunity to give satisfaction to what is a popular cry, which is to return to the direct election of council members by judges and magistrates. Let us seize that opportunity because, if we do not, we will actually be giving ammunition to those, such as Mrs Ciuro, who certainly do not want to talk about independence from the judiciary, who certainly do not want to talk about separation of powers, that what they really want is to attack our constitutional system. Let us make the necessary reforms and let us empty them of arguments, of those arguments which have no credibility but which need us to act swiftly in pursuit of this democratic regeneration. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, gentlemen of the People's Party, we have a historic opportunity. Enjoy it. For us, for Citizens, who have always defended the same thing and who will continue to defend that change in the system - here is our law, the law of Citizens, which is being debated right now in the Senate -, this is a magnificent opportunity, I say again, to advance in that reform and in that strengthening of the independence of the judiciary in which we of course believe, have always believed and will continue to defend. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u114	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs.Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary is urgent, but it is important to reconfigure the system of election of its members. Therefore, knowing the urgency of the renewal of the council, we will vote in favour of the motion put forward by the PDECAT, but we are also aware in the same vein of the need to impose deadlines. Focusing also on the system of operation and selection of its members, we believe that any approach that has to do with it must be based on article 117.1 of the Constitution, which states that justice emanates from the people. This decisively determines the popular and democratic legitimization of any justice system in Spain or administered by judges and courts. Justice emanates from the people and, therefore, there is no doubt that the democratic legitimacy of the governing body of the judges is necessary, but it is certainly necessary and compulsory at this time to perfect this system in order not to fall into the logic of the division of posts between the two major parties, forgetting that the majority does not mean plurality. They have negotiated not only the distribution of votes, but also the presidency of the body outside the parliamentary seat, which is a social scandal that must shame its protagonists. Such irresponsible action undoubtedly jeopardizes the constitutional system vis-à-vis public opinion and leaves the field open to undeniably simplistic and populist solutions that seek to ensure judicial independence simply because they are judges or magistrates who directly choose the vowels, forgetting the vowels of non-judicial origin and as if only that fact was sufficient to guarantee the plurality and impartiality of the tasks of the council, especially in the appointment of senior judicial officers. It is also particularly worrying in this regard the drift of the People's Party, which has taken a spectacular turn in moving from defending the existing system to delegitimizing it with its action in the party negotiation of a council and in a unilateral and surprising way through a last-minute amendment in the Senate, where it has an absolute majority. No less worrying has been the action of the Socialist Government, which has assumed nothing less than through the Minister of Justice a non-public negotiation with disastrous results, in which the constitutional and legal role of the Chambers in the participation of the composition of the body has been completely ignored. Those who argue only that it is the judges who must choose between themselves also argue it wrongly, as if it were a mandate of the Group of States against Corruption. Such arguments do not take into account that in 2001 the Greek, in a report specifically aimed at judicial independence and the prosecutor's office, did not say anything about the system of election of the General Council of the Judiciary in Spain. Greek is not imposing any system of concrete choice on Spain beyond observing the operating deficits of the system. Many of these issues have been the subject of the reform of the law passed by Congress with a large majority on 30 October and now put at risk in an irresponsible manner by the People's Party. It is therefore appropriate to make a statement by this House in favour of strengthening the system in order to ensure the plurality and independence of the governing body. The participation of Parliament in the selection of the judiciary does not undermine the separation of powers, provided that it is ensured that the General Council of the judiciary does not interfere with the judicial function. An essential constitutional element of the council is collegiality and representation of social plurality. That's their real legitimacy. The problem is not participation, but the partisanship and perversion of the bipartisan system. The problem is that the PP and PSOE selection system has been paying favors or doing favors to make them due. The problem is the lack of a democratic culture and independence, not only in bipartisanship, but in the members of the judiciary. The problem is also the lack of democratic quality of most judges who have been members of the General Council of the Judiciary, who have on many occasions been a leash of submission and maneuvers of political and economic power. The problem is that the summit of the judiciary, the Supreme Court fundamentally, is in the hands of people who have decided to entangle themselves in the mysticism of servants of a State without citizens and constitutional values and under the rite of passage of an opposition that would legitimize them only to wear the sacred robe of the apparent truth, regardless of the interests to which it really serves. More and more its resolutions are explained by this framework of relations, interests, prebends, canonies, positions, ambitions and political and religious motivations with which they have had to impose the rhythm of life on those who consider subjects of a revealed right. The General Council of the Judiciary is not the corporate committee of judges, it is not the board of directors of a company, it is not the board of directors of an association; it is the government of a state power. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte intervenes in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u117	Thank you very much, President. I will speak from the seat and will do so briefly to state that the Basque Parliamentary Group will abstain in the vote on the motion put to us by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the PDECAT, basically for two reasons. [[EAJ-PNV]] First of all, because, because of its content, the motion is not such, it does not urge the Government at all, but rather it is a statement by this House regarding the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. It is a self-declaration or a self-commitment and for this there is no need for any motion, but simply for us to agree at the appropriate procedural time. We have always opposed motions that do not urge the Government to do anything. [[Rumors]] Secondly, we will also abstain because we are ahead of a debate that we have to have in this House next week when we take into account - or not - the amendments introduced in the Senate by the People's Parliamentary Group - if they are finally approved - and that change the current model of election of the Judicial Voting Officers of the General Council of the Judiciary that this House approved on 30th of last month. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Campo Moreno has the floor for a Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that you be silent. Go ahead, Mr. Campo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. As we have heard from some of those who are here, this afternoon we are debating a motion following an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group and, within it, by the PDECAT, in order to seek a broad consensus in order to proceed in an urgent way - equals the date on which they spoke in their motion - to the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary; in particular, of the ten Members proposed by this House. Ladies and gentlemen, we would need more time than the Rules of Procedure of the House give us or the generosity of the Presidency gives us to talk about what is underlying this motion. The very reading of it and the group that signs it always leaves us somewhat doubtful, but if what they want is to proceed in a quick way, following the constitutional guidelines and following the dictates of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, they will find the Socialist Parliamentary Group there. It is true that this is not the first time that the PDECAT has brought matters of justice to this House. Another motion following an urgent inquiry, 173/000066, which was debated just over a year ago in November, spoke about the democratic crisis of the functioning of justice and was lost in a vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, when you speak of justice, you do not usually do so under the constitutional terms of Article 149.1.5a and not even of the justice assumed by the Generalitat de Catalunya under the subrogatories of the statutes of autonomy. Basically, they only talk about justice in relation to the process. That is why I was telling you, Mrs Ciuro, that it is difficult to understand exactly what your words are. If the motion is clear and is that exaltation to the constitutional mandate of article 122 in the order of five years and renewal, fantastic; there you will find us. But let me partially exonerate my doubt that it is that constitutional loa that comes out of your group. Above all, I am puzzled - and I said it is not easy to understand it - by reading the Journal of Sessions number 167, pages 36 and 37 primarily, and what they said in the urgent inquiry just two weeks ago. They talked about the degradation of the judicial system and its structural character. They talked about the depravity of the judicial system by invoking a card game, the poker, and they talked about the reporter that contributes to this degradation: the National Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Attorney General's Office and the General Council of the Judiciary. They said that in Spain there are political prisoners and that there are people in prison without trial, without a conviction. The Spanish judicial system is not depraved, which is lacking in budgets and regulatory, organizational and technological reforms. It is not depraved at all and I believe that the high institutions of the judiciary generally ennoble the social and democratic rule of law. In Spain there are no political prisoners, what there are politicians deprived of their liberty, as so many Spaniards still without trial and without a conviction, what is called the situation of provisional detention, admitted in all international conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only necessary to invoke that, but it is sufficient to have read the questions that you intend to ask the President of the Government tomorrow about the role of the Constitutional Court in order to misinterpret the constitutional text. That's why I told them that when I read the PDECAT interventions they always remind me of the god Jano and I don't know what face to look at, because if clear is the motion, in claris didn't interpret what they were invoking in the urgent inquiry. That is why, of course, it is necessary to renew the General Council of the Judiciary, of course it is necessary with that dual legitimation that the Chambers established about twenty years ago. The judges elect the twelve vowels and the Chambers intervene and make their final decision on those twelve vowels. We can talk about everything we want about it, no doubt, we will talk about it and we will have many opportunities, but it is a constitutional system and blessed by the Constitutional Court, which you deny. That is why I say to you - and I conclude this - that we will vote in favour of the clarity of the texts of the motion and not the texts of the urgent inquiry. If you want the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary as provided for in article 122 of the Constitution and the Organic Law of the Judiciary develops it, you will find us there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u120	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I do not know if perplexity is the word - it has been expressed here -, I do not know what the rating is, Mrs Ciuro, but it has not only been you, but that many speakers have staged a sort of dialogue of deafness of convenience. The urgent inquiry that you raised with the Government has nothing to do with this motion, it has already been said. There's a total incongruity. It is a motion addressed to ourselves which, in addition, contradicts many of the questions you raised to the Minister. The question you made to the minister is a treasure of parliamentarianism because you were contradicting each step, but the Minister of Justice was arrogating the impulse for the amendment of a law, the Organic Law of the Judiciary, the modification of the council, the modification of basic principles that have been exclusively the result of the initiative of this parliamentary group and the work of those who for a year believed that Parliament is something more than coming and voting what they tell us. [[Applauds]] Mrs Ciuró, do not confuse in any way judicial independence with all those things that you have said here today, those you have been saying every time you talk about judges and justice and what you said in your interpellation. Judicial independence is not to harass judges in Catalonia; judicial independence is not only to praise the judges with whom it goes well; judicial independence is not to mark the doors of their families; judicial independence is not to go against all the staff of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. That's not judicial independence. Do not confuse the citizens with this motion; do not tell us, on the one hand, that justice seems to you to be a disaster, that it seems to you to be a disaster that agreements are reached to renew the council and now tell us that we are all Christmas here to reach a cross-cutting agreement on something that you previously disagreed with. Ladies and gentlemen, other groups, for example the Podemos Group, have pointed out that things need to be changed, but that for the time being progress must be made. But, ladies and gentlemen, if only a few days ago your spokesman in office pointed out - and the intervener has also dropped it today - that it must be the judges who have to choose the judges. What are we left with? A dialogue of deafness of convenience, ladies and gentlemen. We have argued that we had to arrive at a model of consensus, and we have defended it in a subcommittee on national justice strategy, which was dynamite, with a long debate on this subject, we have defended it throughout the process of a proposal for an organic law that is now in the Senate and that will return to this House. We do not understand why it is precisely today that an incongruent motion must be made, a motion of supposed... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u122	Wait a minute, Mrs. Moro. [[Pause]] How is it possible that I hear a better conversation from your ladies and gentlemen than the speaker's word? I've come to think I have powers. [[Laughter]] It's impossible, this is impossible. Really, ladies and gentlemen, have some respect for the speaker. Go on, Mrs. Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u123	Thank you, Madam President. This is not a matter of independence, you know that. You're being an instrument of not knowing what. In the interpellation I said something that I support, and that is that you left safe a series of investigating judges, instance judges, etc. Well, I leave the judicial career and then there may be exceptions, as in the political collective, that should be devoted to something else, but we give our absolute support to the entire collective of judges and magistrates at all stages. Therefore, you listen to the judges and magistrates, you listen to the associations, to the four associations that this very afternoon asked us what the society is calling for. In that legislative process, which is where it belongs, we have incorporated an amendment so that once and for all, with that consensus, society is heard, and although we have previously sought consensus and it has not been possible, we want to continue looking for it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here to satisfy our approaches, we are not here to satisfy our personal whim, but if we have to rectify, we correct because we are here to defend the general interests, and what society is asking for, what the judicial career demands is to feel comfortable joining this Council of the Judiciary. There is an amendment incorporated by the People's Party and also by Citizens in the Senate amendments that will be voted on in the Senate tomorrow and then come here. That's the right place. And the opportune place means that the Socialist Party will have to rule on who it is with because in the Senate it abstained. What does that mean? He won't listen to the judicial associations. The ministry must refrain from continuing to say what it says about the need to debate, the need to reflect. No, ladies and gentlemen, no further thought must be given, there must be political will and that political will is not accepting this motion today, it is not accepting amendments that you have rejected. We therefore have nothing to say from our group, which has the political will to truly defend that model in which the whole of society and the judicial career are going to feel more comfortable. We choose the jurists in the Chambers and choose the judges with the mechanisms that guarantee the principles of proportionality, of approaching parity, of the presence of the judicial career by the most voted. Let us guarantee that and do so in what you have called the opportunity we have, and today we fully agree on that point, Mr Prendes. We are willing, we have put it on the table and Citizens seem to be willing. We ask the Socialist Party to be together in this and we ask Podemos to comply with what he said when he was concerned about the real social alarm at the non-acceptance of the renewal of the council as it was taking place. Let's stop. We've stopped. We have the opportunity to change that model, to change it to the satisfaction of the general interests in order to rely more on justice. Therefore, this motion remains; we are going to vote that not because it is left, but we ask you to vote tomorrow that yes in the Senate and that next week make it possible once and for all that the model of the General Council of the Judiciary truly regains that confidence that some have lost in the independence of our justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u124	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Ciuro i Buldó whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u125	We shall now make a statement to the Bureau on the deadline for the renewal of this Council. I'd be the only one. I would like to thank the groups for the amendments tabled, which I have previously forgotten in my speech. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u126	Thank you very much. [[Mrs Ciuro i Buldó asked for the floor]] Go ahead, Mrs. Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u127	Thank you, Madam President. I invoke Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure in connection with Mr Prendes' statements concerning former Member Pigem, to make the following statement. Lesmes acknowledged that Pigem's conduct was not criminal and did not even involve administrative misconduct. I would like to record the recognition of Mrs Pigem and ask Mr Prendes to withdraw this serious accusation, because they would already like to have many of Mrs Pigem's intellectual level and moral size.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Prendes, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u129	Yes, Madam President. I do not withdraw any of the statements which have only been made to establish objective facts which have occurred and which have led to Mrs Pigem's resignation. Of course, I have not been able to qualify Mrs Pigem, but I did have objective facts that led to her resignation from the General Council of the Judiciary. Therefore, I have nothing to withdraw. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u130	Thank you very much. In five minutes the votes will begin. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u131	We are voting in the first place to take account of the proposed law of the Galician Parliament, which is an organic body for the transfer of ownership and powers from the AP-9 to the Galician Autonomous Community. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; 305 plus 2 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u132	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u133	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, in order to correct the effect of the introduction of the immediate information system in the management of VAT. [[SII]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 171; against, 88 plus 1 telematics vote, 89; abstentions, 80 plus 1 telematics vote, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u134	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u135	We are now voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the text of non-legislative proposals. Firstly, no legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the promotion of measures to combat chronic loneliness. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular, socialist, citizen and mixed parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 332 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u136	It's approved. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the plan for the prevention and eradication of ill-treatment of older persons. [[File number 162/000595]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u137	We are now voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the plan to prevent and eradicate abuse of older people. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular, socialist, citizen and mixed parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 332 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u138	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u139	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent questioning. We shall vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, into the government's policy of giving independence to the highest levels of the judiciary. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 166 against, 163 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-11-CD181211.u140	It's approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
