ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-10-CD180710.u1	Before proceeding with the agenda for the plenary session, I would like to greet, on behalf of all your ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Network of Associations of Spanish Researchers and Scientists in the Exterior, who are accompanying us today in the rostrum of the Chamber. [[Applauds]] After the end of this session they will be received by the Bureau and spokespersons of the Committee on Science, Innovation and Universities, in a meeting that I hope will be fruitful and will contribute to strengthening the link between science and Parliament. Welcome, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-10-CD180710.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda is the election of the four members of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation referred to in paragraph 3 of the single article of Royal Decree-Law 4/2018 of 22 June, which specifies as a matter of urgency the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation and its President. The election shall be made by the system set out in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and those candidates who obtain in the first ballot at least a two-thirds majority, i.e. two hundred and thirty-four votes, shall be elected. The candidates who will be put to the vote in the Senate are: don Jenaro Castro Muíña; dona Ana Isabel Cerrada Escurín; don Fernando López Agudín; don Joseph-Lluís Micó Sanz; dona María del Carmen Martín Abelán; dona Carmen Sastre Bellas; don Juan Tortosa Marín and don José Manuel Peñalosa Ruiz. We shall proceed to the vote for the election of the members of that council. The vote will take place on the ballot system. Each Member will write on the ballot up to a maximum, ladies and gentlemen, of four names. I would remind you that only ballot papers containing the names of the proposed candidates up to a maximum of four, as well as blank ballot papers, will be considered valid. In this vote five telematic votes have been cast: that of Dona María Auxiliadora Honorato Chulián, that of Dona María Isabel Salud Arete, that of Dona Irene María Montero Gil, that of Dona Pablo Iglesias Turrión and that of Don Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, which I will proceed to introduce in the ballot box. I ask the Madam Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber]] The secretaries of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. After the vote, the voting began. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-10-CD180710.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: 301 votes in favour of Mr Jenaro Castro Muiña, 122; votes in favour of Mrs Ana Isabel Cerrada Escurín, 175; votes in favour of Mr Fernando López Agudín, 175; votes in favour of Mr JosepLluís Micó Sanz, 175; votes in favour of Mrs Carmen Sastre Bellas, 122; votes in favour of Mr Juan Tortosa Marín, 175; votes in favour of Mr José Manuel Peñalosa Ruiz, 122; votes in favour, 2; null votes, 2. In the absence of a two-thirds majority required in the first ballot, a further vote shall be taken no later than 48 hours after the last ballot, in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree-Law 4/2018, in which the absolute majority of the House shall be sufficient, and the candidatures shall come from at least half of the parliamentary groups of the House in which they were presented. Also, item II of the agenda, on the election of the president of the RTVE Corporation, lapses from the agenda. The meeting rose. It was four and fifty minutes in the afternoon. http://www.congreso.es Calle Floridablanca, s/n. 28071 Madrid
