ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the debate in Section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality. For the section presentation, the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u2	Very good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to explain the draft General State Budgets of Section 26, Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u3	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u4	A global project designed for people, for all Spanish families, in the preservation of the welfare state and in the future of the next generations. From the People's Party government we are very clear that all Spanish families are the undisputed protagonists in the history of our country. Spanish families are the most important for the Government of Spain and CIS says that 98.7% of Spaniards also have the most important family. Thanks to the efforts of the Spanish families, the reformist policies of the Spanish Government and President Rajoy, we have come together from one of the worst economic crises we remember. These General State Budgets are the most social in the history of democracy because we are a government that we think of and care for every family. As far as the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality is concerned, we are working to achieve six major objectives for all Spaniards and all Spanish families: equal opportunities and job creation; family protection with fiscal measures, economic and social aid; reconciliation and co-responsibility measures; attention to the dependence and care of our elderly; the eradication of all forms of violence against women by simply being women; and the care of the health of our families because they are most important to us. We have in the ministry and in this budget more than 2,200 million euros, 1,900 million for social services and equality, 380 million for the General Secretariat of Health and Consumption and the undersecretariat. And if the amendments - which are likely to be approved - are adopted and we add the amounts in this budget, this ministry will have a total of 2399 million euros, which represents an increase over last year of almost 10%. Here I would like to add the 4 170 million euros of the Imserso dedicated to dependence and to the attention of our elders. I'm starting with the health area. Our National Health System is an example of the great heritage that we have built for all Spaniards over the past forty years. A heritage that is counted in years of life - we are the longest in Europe and the second largest in the world - a heritage that translates into the highest standards of quality, cohesion, equity and security and that allows the Spanish model to be a model to follow. Our health system has its own name in the world and this is recognized by the most prestigious international publications and the World Health Organization itself, but also by all Spanish people, since three weeks ago we presented the last health barometer where Spanish patients put us the highest score of the last ten years and put a remarkable mark on the National Health System. They give us 78 % of Spanish satisfaction in Spanish emergencies, 83 % satisfaction in specialist consultations, 86 % satisfaction in hospital income and 87 % satisfaction in primary care centres. Therefore, these data are the result of these last ten years but I would like to recall that in the last seven years there has been a People's Party government that always thinks about the health of people and our families and, together with the autonomous communities since the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, we can say that we have one of the best national health systems in the world. These budgets pursue, above all, to continue to lead this National Health System, five major objectives. The first axis, the promotion of health as an indispensable recipe for a healthier and healthier society; the second axis, eHealth and digitalization with the aim of transforming our health and positioning Spain in the digital health revolution; the third axis, research, development and innovation, great challenges in our management of the health of the 21st century; the fourth axis, working the confidence of professionals, patients and consumers, vertebrate axes of our National Health System, and the fifth axis, strengthening funding so that our health system has sufficient funding guaranteeing cohesion, quality, equity and security. Therefore, as far as health promotion is concerned, you know that according to the WHO, 23% of deaths occurring annually worldwide are related to environmental causes such as air pollution, excessive alcohol consumption, tobacco, unhealthy diets or sedentary lifestyles. These cause diseases such as stroke, heart disease, respiratory disease, and cancer. I would therefore like to highlight four major strategic actions in this budget to work on prevention and health promotion. First, we are planting overweight and we are doing so with the collaborative plan for improving the composition of food and drink where from this year until 2020 we will reduce 10% of the quantities of sugar, salt and saturated fats of the products in the shopping basket. Secondly, these budgets support this government's goal of combating smoking and we have therefore updated the Tobacco Act that we approved via royal decree-law at the end of 2017. Thirdly, we are committed to combating all kinds of addictions, especially those caused by the irresponsible use of new technologies by our young people. That is why we approved the National Addiction Strategy just two months ago and therefore this budget will allow us to implement it. [[Rumors]] Fourthly, the great measure of prevention is that we are promoting and finalizing the draft law on alcohol-free children. Also with the approval of these budgets we will be able to develop new strategies for disease prevention that are currently the most prevalent in Spain..., [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u6	... such as cardiovascular diseases, rare or uncommon pathologies, cancer and the development of a new version of the mental health strategy, as well as the strategy of neurodegenerative diseases highlighting ALS, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for the agreement that we have reached thanks to an amendment that will increase the budget that will be allocated to the Spanish Association of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. As for the second axis in health, eHealth and digitization, within the framework of the Plan for the digital transformation of the Spanish economy promoted by the Ministry of Industry, we are working to make digital advances improve the well-being of citizens, especially their health. In this line, Big Data, 5G, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence and Industry 4.0 are some of the tools that will help us digitize our health and improve its functioning for diagnosis. Just as we will continue to work - and so it is foreseen in these budgets - with the interoperability and full implementation that we committed at the beginning of the legislature in health card, electronic prescription and digital clinical history, whose compliance percentage levels we have greatly increased. These budgets also ensure that we advance information transparency and a better understanding of the results of the health system, such as the details of investments made in the system and care centres. Thanks to these budgets will be a real portal of the transparency of the National Health System and, therefore, we will have health in data. With regard to the third axis, research, development and innovation, I would like to highlight in this regard the leading role played by the Carlos III Institute of Health, the main public research body in the field of biomedical R & D+i in Spain, which is functionally dependent on the Ministry of Health and in which each year we invest the funds from the sixth additional provision of the Law on Medicinal Products, which in 2017 amounted to 90 million euros. These 90 million have served, among other issues, to develop strategic action in health, to hire research staff and to provide funding to investigate respiratory, metabolic, digestive or liver diseases, as well as cancer. Within this program we are going to boost this year - this is what is foreseen in these budgets - the plan of personalized medicine and precision. Along with research and development, another very important axis is our portfolio of services, which I want to say is one of the best and most complete in Europe. In recent years we have incorporated more than 260 therapeutic innovations into the portfolio - in this year 2018 we have incorporated thirteen therapeutic innovations -, 25% of which focus on the treatment of cancer. These innovations have also enabled us to treat diseases such as hepatitis C through direct action antivirals aimed at more than 103 000 Spanish patients and we have also developed a new model for rare diseases of high economic impact, such as spinal muscle atrophy, which patients have had at their disposal since last March in the basic portfolio. Rare diseases are a priority for the Government of the People's Party and we have demonstrated this with the first national strategy for their early diagnosis and treatment, with the state registry of rare diseases and with the expansion of the network of centres, services and reference units. I would also like to mention the new incorporations in the basic portfolio in 2018: we have progressively increased the age of funding for hearing aids until we reach the age of twenty-six, which is one of the great demands of deaf people and which a People's Party government will make possible. We have also incorporated in the basic portfolio in March the micropigmentation of the breast areola for all women who suffer in their body the consequences of breast cancer. In 2017, more than 26 000 new cases were diagnosed which, thanks to this measure, will find an effective aesthetic solution, especially social and self-esteem. We have also incorporated in the basic portfolio the sensor systems in the arm for children with diabetes, allowing them to be constantly controlled and avoid punctures to measure the level of glucose. Also, as mandated by the UN, by 2050 there will be 10 million people who will die each year from antibiotic-resistant diseases. These General State Budgets will allow us to approve the new Antibiotic Resistance Plan 2019-2021; I mean we have already reduced the misuse of antibiotics by 6 points. These budgets guarantee us the safety of the use of medicines and the quality of their composition, which is complemented by the Strategy to combat counterfeit medicines. Let me close this axis of research, development and innovation with the National Organization of Transplants, which will have a budget of EUR 4,100 000 to continue all NTA programmes, as well as the National Bone marrow Plan or the National Corneal Plan, to consolidate the global leadership we have exercised for more than two decades and to work to make possible the fifty donors per million inhabitants in 2022, which is the goal we have set ourselves. The fourth axis in health care is the strengthening of professionals, patients and consumers and we have worked to promote patient participation in decision-making bodies through their inclusion in the Health Advisory Council and the signing of the framework agreement last October with patients with the aim of promoting their rights to participation, information and consultation in the National Health System in terms of disease management, health promotion and disease prevention. We have also strengthened the safety of citizens as consumers who we are through measures such as the system of consumer alerts, the transposition of the European directive on the alternative resolution of disputes and items such as those envisaged in the budget to improve the functioning of the consumer arbitration system and the European Consumer Centre. For their part, professionals, who are our main asset in the National Health System, are also protagonists in this 2018 budget. I would like to thank all the health professionals in our National Health System for their vocation and excellence, and for maintaining that excellence at times as complicated as the economic crisis. These budgets return the effort of these great health professionals, who are the backbone of our National Health System. There are therefore two very important measures in this budget: the first, the increase in wages over three years, with an increase of up to 8.79 % for all health professionals and all staff in the National Health System, and the second, the call for more than 129 000 places with the extraordinary public offer of job stabilization, the largest in the history of democracy, which will allow us to raise the replacement rate to 100 % and reduce the temporality to 8 %. We are also working on a real decree to promote the presence and stabilization of doctors and specialties in hard-to-cover areas, such as rural areas of Spain. With these measures in favor of professionals we are responding to each and every one of the demands that have taken us both to the Medical and Nurse Conference that we held last March and April - and that is the first time that it is celebrated - as well as to the questions that professionals have offered us at the Professional Forum, created in 2015 and that we have reactivated in this legislature, favoring consensus among professionals and achieving a historical agreement in the field of nursing indication. As you know, the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality also manages the competence of Health in Ceuta and Melilla through Ingesa and, therefore, Ingesa has more than 240 million euros in 2018. This budget will bring about the new hospital for Melilla, which, as you know, has been paralyzed for many years by judicial problems of defects in documents and procedures at the time of the socialist governments. Two weeks ago in the Council of Ministers we approved the investment for the new hospital, which amounts to 91 million euros and a work planning of thirty-six months. Therefore, we can say that in the year 2021 it will be a reality the hospital of Melilla for all Melillenses. The works have already begun and will no longer be paralyzed until the construction of the hospital in Melilla is completed. This budget addresses another of the major concerns of Ceuta and Melilla, due to the complications inherent in the physical distance with the peninsula and therefore its difficult stabilization of the staff, and consolidates eighty places of health personnel, putting us in the ratio of the average of the National Health System. I would also like to speak at this point about the outstanding debt that we had all the Spaniards with those affected by thalidomide. There was an investment agreement between the Citizens' Group and the People's Group to end once and for all with this historic debt that Spain had with those affected by thalidomide, especially those affected from 1950 to 1985. These budgets respond to all those affected by thalidomide, with a budget of EUR 20 million. I end with the fifth Health Point, which, as I said, was funding. These budgets include an increase in funding for the autonomous communities of more than €4,200 million. Therefore, this increase in funding will make it possible to devote it to the improvement and preservation of one of the major pillars of our welfare state, which is health. Moreover, also, following the objectives set out at the Sixth Conference of Presidents, held in the Senate in January 2017, the financing of health is a priority for all and a priority that we continue to lead from the ministry with initiatives, convening in the Interterritorial Council the monographic plenary that will be held in the coming weeks, where we want to continue to advance with the autonomous communities in the economic sufficiency of the National Health System. I now turn to social services and equality, to the Secretariat of State. After protecting the health of people, the best way to protect the well-being of Spanish people and all our families is to ensure that employment opportunities are created for all in our country. Yesterday Minister Fatima Báñez gave a good account of how the work measures of our People's Party government have returned opportunities for all people and our families with job creation, which is the best tool and the best social policy. Let me remind you of three very important figures that reflect the commitment of this Government and the commitment of this ministry to work on equal opportunities and thus achieve greater and better employability. Today more than 8.5 million women are working in Spain, the highest figure in history, today there are more than 1 million young people working, something that has not happened for six years and more than a million contracts have been signed for people with disabilities. Therefore, these figures are not by chance. Behind these figures there is talent and there is also political action. In particular, from the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality we carry out five major axes of action. The first is to increase equal opportunities for women and men, and we have therefore developed programmes that promote the employability of women in situations of special vulnerability. We increased the budget of this programme by 29%. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u7	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u8	We also develop programmes to promote the elimination of stereotypes that prevent equal opportunities for women and men, and we do so with programmes to help small and medium-sized enterprises implement equality plans, as well as with the implementation of the anonymous curriculum. We have increased the budget for these programmes by 20%. Also with the inclusion in these budgets of two new programs to work the elimination of stereotypes in the STEM professions - science, technology, engineering and mathematics - because we want to eliminate the digital gap that exists in the STEM regarding women. Also with programmes to encourage more women in positions of responsibility and thus break the glass ceiling. Apart from continuing to work on the Promotion Program, we are going to launch a new program called Talentia 360, aimed at avoiding the loss of female talent as we move forward in positions of high responsibility. In order to generate greater opportunities for young people, since the Injuve we have launched in these budgets the initiative of Spain, Capital of young talent, because we want to make the promotion of youth talent a national priority and to ensure that in the next three years there are significant changes in the educational and productive social ecosystem of young people because we are very clear that young people are the main engine of the social and cultural changes in our society and because we want the entrepreneurial DNA of Spanish young people to be another sign of our brand Spain. To build a universally accessible society, we are committed to education and employment as the main tools for people with disabilities and will launch this year the first call of the program for improving the educational conditions of people with disabilities through the sleeping accounts with this program, as you know known as the Reina Letizia Program. This programme will serve, for example, to enable people with disabilities to study an Erasmus, to access university, to training courses outside their environment without disability being an impediment and to have all the help they need to get away from their environment and to be able to study at university, vocational training or an Erasmus. At this point, allow me to thank the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for the amendment to the State Confederation of Deaf Persons so that it can continue to perform its role and reach out to more people. The second axis in social services and equality is that of fiscal measures, economic and social aid to families. In addition to ensuring equal opportunities by promoting employment for all individuals and their families, the People's Party Government continues to support and protect families, especially those in a situation of greater vulnerability. And we do so as we have always done, with fiscal measures and economic and social aid. In the tax reform of the IRPF that we launched in 2015, we already consider families as a priority. Therefore, at that time, we increased the family minimums to 32% so that families with children paid less taxes and incorporated social benefits for families as never before in our country, establishing new deductions of €1,200 for families with dependent and ascending children and for large and single-parent families. To all these measures, in this year's budget we add an increase of EUR 600 per child per year in the deduction of a large family and a new deduction of EUR 1,200 per spouse with disabilities per year. In addition, for those families in situations of greatest difficulty, we set up direct economic and social aid, such as the food purchase programme, to which we have allocated almost EUR 100 million, and the programme to combat child poverty, to which we allocated EUR 60 million, which together with the EUR 40 million of the agreed plan, allows us to devote EUR 100 million to strengthening the social aid received by families. To this set of aid we have added to these budgets a new programme which will have a great impact and which for me is one of the star instruments and measures of this budget, as it is that from the approval of the budgets all Spanish companies in a voluntary and anonymous way will be able to mark the crossing of 0.7 % in the company tax. Now that we are in the middle of an income campaign, I encourage everyone to mark the crossing in favor of 0.7% of the IRPF. Therefore, we will now have another programme where all Spanish companies will be able to devote 0.7 % of the company tax to the social programme in order to get to where the administration sometimes does not arrive. If everyone were to mark the crossroads, we would be talking about an annual programme of €700 million. This is therefore the highest social programme in history, and this has been done by a People's Party Government because we are very clear that we want this aid to continue to reach 7.5 million Spaniards with the IRPF. Therefore, with corporation tax we can go much further. This program helps us to vertebrate the third social sector, which in Spain - one of the leading countries in volunteering - has more than 30 000 entities. The third axis is conciliation and co-responsibility. From the Government of Spain of the People's Party we work to advance more and more towards a society of shared roles and to abandon the society of divided roles or of duplicate roles. Therefore, in these budgets we make the extension of paternity leave to five weeks, we incorporate in the IRPF a new deduction of EUR 1 000 per year for childcare costs, which, in addition to facilitating conciliation, also contributes to breaking the poverty chain. We also provide that public administrations can regulate a retrievable exchange of hours, so that workers can make their working hours more flexible and better care for their children, the elderly and people with disabilities. These measures are not new to the Government of the People's Party, because I remind you that it was also we who launched the monthly aid of 100 euros for working mothers with children from zero to three years. All these aids are not exclusive but complementary to the existing aids. It was also we who modified the breastfeeding permit so that it could be enjoyed not only by women but also by men. It was the Government of the People's Party that extended the right to reduce the number of days for the care of children, increasing it from eight to twelve years of age. It was also a Government of the People's Party that established for the first time the maternity supplement in the retirement pensions of working mothers. I'm moving on to the fourth axis, majors and dependency. Co-responsibility and conciliation refer not only to the care of our children but also to the care of our elders. Ensuring an old age worthy of our elders is one of the main commitments of the Government of Spain. Our elders are the protagonists of our present and our future, and that is why we must continue to work for active ageing and the promotion of healthy lifestyles. Therefore, in this year 2018 the total budget of Imserso amounts to 4 170 million euros, 129 million euros more than in 2017 for the elderly and 500 million euros more in the last five years. Since the Imserso we are promoting, in collaboration with the State Council of Older Persons, the first national strategy for their good treatment and active ageing. In the same vein, the social tourism and thermalism programme will count in 2018 with 105 million euros to continue improving active ageing and to continue contributing to the maintenance of employment in the tourism sector during the low season. With regard to the Unit Care System, we are undertaking a set of measures that are enabling the Unit Act to be preserved and given significant impetus. We are going to allocate a total of EUR 1401 million this year to care for dependency, EUR 46 million more than last year, with the aim that by 2020 we have increased aid for dependency by more than 15% and thus return the effort that older people and families took during the economic crisis. This budget guarantees us a 5% increase in aid to dependency this year. We have also reached a historic agreement between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities; we have assessed the implementation of the law and have laid the foundations for ensuring attention to today's and future dependence, and we have therefore accredited more than 17,000 professionals, which has made it possible to guarantee employment stability in this sector, and we have incorporated advanced technology into tele-assistance, which will make it possible to provide better service to dependent people. Finally, allow me to highlight the magnificent network of State reference centres in Imserso. In Spain there are seventeen Imserso state reference centres, where innovation, research and the improvement of the quality of resources targeted at people in dependency situations converge. I would like to take advantage of this intervention to announce that these budgets will make it easier for us to open the new State Reference Centre for people with severe neurological disabilities in Langreo, Asturias in a few weeks' time; also, with this budget we will ensure that this year is the reality of the state reference centre in Santiago de Compostela, which is a centre dedicated to physical disability, and also this budget will allow us to continue working to make the state reference centres in León and Soria a reality. The last axis of work of the ministry and of this secretariat of State on which these budgets are designed is the fight against violence against women simply because they are women. These budgets constitute the greatest demonstration of the Government of Spain's unwavering commitment to equality and the fight against violence against women and our children. The Government of Spain and President Rajoy have a firm commitment to the fulfilment and implementation of the State Pact, a commitment that is not initiated last year with the signing of the State Pact, but that whenever it has governed the People's Party has had a firm and unwavering commitment to the fight against gender-based violence, but I do mean that Spain had never before had such a high budget to eradicate and end this scourge in our society. The initial budget presented by the Government in the Courts complies with the budgetary commitment acquired in the state pact because this budget increases by 80 million euros plus the year 2017 to implement the measures of the competition pact of the Government of Spain. If we add to these 80 million increases the already existing allocations in the budget for combating gender-based violence, we have 408 million euros for the measures under the jurisdiction of the Government of Spain. It is the first time in history that there is so much State competition budget in the State General Budgets. The second fulfillment in the initial budget that we present in these Courts is that the State Pact required us to increase the budget of the Government Delegation for Gender Violence, which is dependent on the Ministry, by 20% more, and this Government has increased it by 24% more, reaching almost 40 million euros. I would like to recall that the Socialist Party at the beginning of this parliamentary term demanded that the delegation's budget should reach at least the same level as they had in the 2011 budget: EUR 30 million. For, I repeat, the People's Party government has not only increased what was required by the State Pact by 20%, but has increased it by 24% and we are reaching almost 40 million euros, far from what you had in 2011. [[applause]] And I'll tell you more. This initial budget that we present to the Courts also meets the 120 million for the autonomous communities and municipalities. In this budget that we will approve today, the financing of the autonomous communities is increased by 4234 million euros, providing sufficient resources for the autonomous communities and municipalities to be able to comply with the measures of the pact that are their exclusive competence. This is being done by a People's Party Government because for the People's Party it is a matter of state and, as I have said, an unwavering commitment to women victims, to their children, to their families, to society and to the state pact. Some groups have questioned the autonomous communities, implicitly interpreting that they were not going to comply with the pact with the increase of 4234 million euros. I want it to be written that the Government of Spain has always trusted the Autonomous Communities; the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Communities have worked together for decades to eradicate gender-based violence in our country. But this Government, as we take it more seriously than others, we have wanted to reach an agreement with the groups by amending the initial budget and agreeing on a compromise amendment that means an increase of EUR 120 million in our budget, the competence of the Government of Spain, to be transferred to the autonomous communities and municipalities to implement the measures of the pact that are within their competence. I also think that today we would have to remember how much money the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero spent in the 2005 budgets for the deployment of the Comprehensive Law, so that autonomous communities and municipalities would deploy the Comprehensive Law. It was a transfer of 10 million euros. This is the reality, and I would therefore like to highlight the great effort of this Government to be with the victims always. With these budgets in the fight against gender-based violence, the Spanish Government has shouldered, as always, the commitment to the victims, to their families, to the state pact and to society, but I ask that it be not only the Government that holds the shoulder, but also the autonomous communities, because if the General Budgets of the State are approved today, the autonomous communities will have two budgetary instruments. First, that was initially in the budget, the €4,200 million of financing for the autonomous communities. And, secondly, the 120 million state competition that we will transfer to autonomous communities and municipalities. I therefore call on the State Pact Monitoring Commission not only to require the Government to comply with the measures under the jurisdiction of the Government of Spain, but also the autonomous communities and municipalities, which will now have two major instruments: EUR 4,200 million, plus EUR 120 million of today's amendment. [[Applauds]] But I also ask you to shoulder the parliamentary groups - Socialist, Podemos, Esquerra Republicana and some members of the Joint Group - who even in their best dreams imagined this high budget, the highest in history in the fight against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] This Government is committed to generosity, listening, dialogue, agreement and consensus with all parliamentary groups, with society, with the victims, with their children and with the pact. I would also like today from this rostrum to thank the Ministry of Finance for its efforts and for the immense work it has done to get us to this great budget. I'll tell you more. If these groups do not hold their shoulders and today vote no to the section of the ministry and the budget, I know wrong to say but you will be saying no to the state pact, you will be saying no to the increase of the 80 million euros, you will be saying no to the increase of autonomous financing of 4,200 million euros, you will be saying no to the 120 million of this amendment and you will be saying no to the increase of 24% of the government delegation. [[applause]] Therefore, when they go up, tell the Spanish the truth, they do not lie to them. Say that you are going to vote against the highest budget in history to eradicate the scourge of macho violence in our society. [[Applauds]] This government with the initial budget met the budgetary commitment of the pact and, thanks to dialogue, listening and agreement, today we are going to increase the fight against gender-based violence by 120 million euros, because this government is in the responsibility, commitment, firmness and agreement in the fight against gender-based violence. Therefore, I ask for consistency, responsibility and consistency, because saying no to the budgets and saying no to the section of the Ministry of Health will be an irresponsibility towards the victims and from today it will be you who will have to explain to all women victims of violence why you voted no to the section and the budget. And I want to add that saying no to this budget will be saying no to 0.7% of corporation tax, saying no to those affected by thalidomide, saying no to pensioners and families and saying no to the increase in the salary of healthcare professionals in the National Health System. I conclude with the satisfaction and pride of being part of the Government of Spain and having been part of the design of these General State Budgets. I conclude with the satisfaction of having gathered and given voice to an entire society through its associative fabric to identify the priorities of our families. The support of your ladies and gentlemen for these budgets is the support of our families and of all the Spaniards, because their immense capacity makes us every day fairer, more equal and more inclusive. I trust that in the important thing, in what is never negotiated, which are all Spanish and all families, we always agree. I would therefore like today to thank all the political groups that are going to support these budgets because thanks to their support and that of the People's Parliamentary Group we are going to improve the quality of life of the Spaniards. Today there is no excuse to vote no to budgets because these budgets are the most social in the history of Spain and the highest budgets in the history of Spain in the fight against gender-based violence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet first spoke in defence of the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, cynicism comes out of your mouth, because these budgets are antisocial and sexist. [[Applauds]] Let's start; in the same order you used. Health. It has been forgotten to say that we are far below the European average and what little is invested is to privatise; we know, unfortunately, where money goes when the People's Party privatizes. Social services. Unit remains one of the outstanding subjects.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u12	The government contributes 20% when it should contribute 50%. As for the autonomous communities, to which he alludes, we assume their irresponsibility and assume their budgets, made against people and against policies designed for people. If we go to youth, three quarters of the same. The Youth Council disappears, it has not even named it; youth participation, while the new one is being created, remains in limbo and the budget goes from EUR 2 million to EUR 500 000. In a state where half of the population under the age of 30 is unemployed, where we cannot emancipate, where university enrolments are astronomical, these budgets, the budgets of Citizens and the People's Party, instead of investing, cut. They're antisocial and sexist budgets. According to the Government, equality in these budgets appears; the 120 million, according to the Government, also appeared, but for us they are like the meigas, there are them, but here the money is not. And you say it's a matter of state the state pact? We have been negotiating for months and - I suppose your colleagues will have told you - we have agreed on a specific budget, with transfers to the autonomous communities and the municipalities. This state pact has been approved since September. We have had endless patience for months, in which measures have not been put in place and the State Pact against Macho Violence has not been financially endowed, and when people sit down to negotiate PP and Citizens they forget to put the 200 million for the State Pact against Macho Violence. [[Applauds]] So they're budgets of citizens and the Machist People's Party. If these are the orange budgets, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, they should be ashamed of themselves, because they are sexist budgets. [[Applauds]] A few years ago the antisocial and Machist budgets led them to the People's Party and justified them by the People's Party, but it is now being done by the People's Party and defends them Citizens; the world upside down. And he says that even in our best dreams we wouldn't have this budget for male violence. But if we negotiate it ourselves! We negotiate it in the state pact, how can we not even in our best dreams? [[Applauds]] The problem, Madam Minister, is that they do not have a majority and we have forced them to move these budgets from the Machist budgets to the violet budgets, the budgets of equality. At least we will have the 100 million for the autonomous communities and at least we will have the 20 million for the municipalities; the 80 for the central administration say they are, but neither do we find them. [[Applauds]] All these items were not in the draft budgets, but fortunately the feminists have been, we have been on the street, we have been on 8 March, we have been against La Manada's sentence, and we have even rectified the Minister of Justice with the commission that had to evaluate the crimes of sexual harassment. We got all that from the feminists, the inside and the outside, all together. So thanks to them - thanks to them, not to the Government, not to other parties; thanks to all, to the inside and the outside - we have made these budgets go from being the most antisocial and macho budgets in history to being a little more violet budgets. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u13	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montserrat, the Generalitat of Catalonia must be controlled by the Parliament of Catalonia, not this House or four Members of its party. [[Applauds]] Given the serious political situation that we are experiencing and that I am not going to ignore, I would like to say to you that it is not easy to be here today and to talk to you, Minister, about amendments and budget when I have before me the most responsible for the damage that is being done to Catalonia and to the citizens of Catalonia, to the independenceists and to the non-independenceists, because their inability and their bad milk we are all paying for. [[Rumors]] And let me correct you, Mr. Toledo. Yesterday he referred to us, the independenceists, as 'a marginalized group'. We are not a marginalized group, we have the absolute majority in the Parliament of Catalonia. Nor is it easy to be here when you learn yesterday that the right hand of the architect of these budgets we are talking about has been blamed for prevarication, embezzlement, covetousness and traffic in influences, but the real demon is us, the independenceists. Mr Del Campo, if you care so much about the Catalan self-employed, have voted in favour of the proposal we put forward in the Commission to solve the problem of self-employed people. You voted against it. So don't waste any more time with us because you're going to have to spend more time washing up the bad image that's left you after playing with the feelings of those affected by thalidomide, who trusted you and you - People and Citizens - and you have failed you, as always. Stop lying to them. [[Rumors]] Unfortunately, you have your energy focused on an absurd race whose goal is even more absurd: to determine which of you is the most Spanish of all. They are offended by my lasso, they are offended by the boxes, they are offended by the results of 21 December, but they are silent - 1- against the violence of the fascists who, on behalf of Spain, went to Canet beach on Monday to attack elderly people who had lassos, and you too are silent - 2- against the threats of bombing Catalonia and German breweries of the enterprising Losantos. [[Cowards]] [[Rumors]] [[Cowards]] I don't like these budgets, I don't like the Spanish government, nor your hateful orange partner, nor this ridiculous version of the Socialist Party, nor the little revolutionaries of Podemos. But you are here because people have voted for you and we would never support a justice or a state that would imprison and criminalize you... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u16	...to fulfill the commitments you have with your voters, which is exactly what is happening to us, what you are doing with us. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on time. I am convinced that many of you will be judged, and these budgets, and the beautiful dictatorship that is left to you. Free political prisoners! [[Protests.-Applause.]] 1 Word withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. 2 Same.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u17	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor. [[Mr Floriano Corrales asks for the floor]] One second, Mr. Olòriz. Go ahead, Mr. Floriano.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u18	Madam President, I would ask that the previous speaker withdraw from the agenda the expression in which she referred to term 3; she has made reference on several occasions. [[coward]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u20	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Presidency is always watching over the good name of the House and the good name of its ladies and gentlemen. It will be the Presidency that withdraws the word 4 which is addressed to all your ladies and gentlemen. [[coward]] [[Applauds]] Go ahead, Mr. Olòriz. [[Mrs Nogueras I Camero: Can you talk?]] No, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when silence or verbal tricks help to sustain an abuse that must be rectified, there is no other solution but to speak clearly. This was said by Camus, who was very quoted, but today the atmosphere of the House allows it to make even more sense. My clear speech will be very different from the publication full of the Minister's pride and satisfaction, which is more typical of a spokesman for a parliamentary group. I will try to speak clearly, and I will try to do so despite the format of this debate. [[The Lord]] I'll start with a finding. In Health and Social Services, both or more than in other sections, there are no substantial changes, no noticeable changes; they are the result of the need to buy time for a twilight People's Party. In substance it is a short budget, denying those who say otherwise, and the changes are smaller, like last year's. He suffers from a centralist structural conception, which we could sum up in 'I don't deal with what I don't have'. In other words, to the public services, those of the welfare state, which are to be provided by the autonomous communities, I transfer fewer resources than necessary, less than those I have committed and, ultimately, my obligations I turn them into debt, I transfer them debt, the FLA. Soon what I would actually have an obligation to transfer, but I don't, I haven't, because I transfer - I say again - the debt to the autonomous communities. The wizard Montoro always wins. It is the Grönholm method applied to politics, a kind of Grönholm 2.0, which is the stick and tempting, the carrot and the stick. Let's be clear, autonomy gets less than it needs to have good health or good social services. The Government of the State, with this budget, chronicles the debt of the autonomous communities, always with variable geometry, sometimes favoring some a little more, sometimes favoring others a little more. It's the old divide and you'll win. The autonomous communities look back and often instead of blaming those who have it, they blame each other. The Grönholm method is always successful in Spain. That is why, and much more, we have tabled an amendment to this whole section. But, despite the fact that we have little success, with a Franciscan patience that characterizes our spokesman, Joan Capdevila, we have made this section and this section forty-eight amendments. Do I ask the government party and its allies to vote for them? No, no, Sincerely, luck is cast; we have already seen your attitude in the Commission, why are we going to ask the elm for pears? But let the record at least record the denunciation of this, the hypocrisy of these actions; because in social services, in dependence, you notice their indifference. And in this political landscape, the Counsellor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, my friend Dolors Bassa, is in Alcala-Meco. We estimate you, you'll be free to walk Montgrí again. [[Applauds]] Let's continue with the 2018 budgets. They finance only 3% of primary care social services. Virtually the one that was a basic element, which was the agreed plan, has disappeared. You know the needs of dependence; you cannot be covered with it. 3 Word withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. 4 Same. the budget, not 50% committed in law or if the ILP, proposed by Cermi, once and for all becomes law. There will be no budgeted money to cover the new expenses. And in child poverty, which is so much talked about in this Congress and so little is done, we have last year's, a little less. For when is the financial benefit worthy of a child? For when? We are among the worst countries in Europe, and that is what everyone preaches and says is the best thing against child poverty. For when? In Sanidad, where are the investments that ensure equity, so announced by some and that I share, among autonomous communities, the investment remains in nothing. And obviously there is no departure for emigrants excluded from public health. By the way, warn Pedro Sánchez about his false accusations against President Torra. In Catalonia, the Catalan law on health access covered everyone, until the Constitutional Court suspended it. But, attention, the next Government of the Generalitat will ensure that everyone has free public health. [[Applauds]] And what if we talk about gender equality! The cross-cutting effort that has been made is not attributed. Money has been made with effort, but we will see if it is spent; I insist, we will see if it is spent. We will have a twilight budget, supported by those who want to relieve the People's Party. We will pass, with bad luck, from the extreme right to the extreme right, if the passiveness of the Spanish left does not prevent it. In social policies, with this budget the Catalans, independentists or not, will suffer the same and also the Spanish as a whole, more the poorest. This is their model, not ours; with their bread they eat it. Junkers, prisoners, prisoners and exiles, do not forget you. [[Applauds]] Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Marcello Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is up to us to talk about section 26, which covers the areas of health, social services, dependency, consumption, equality, functional diversity and childhood. The more than 90 amendments tabled by my Confederal Group have all been rejected and rejected. The minister told us that we would say no to these budgets. Without any doubt, we will say not to be accomplices of a deception, that this is what their budgets are. [[Applauds]] If not because you have perverted the social word, we could say that section 26 is the most social of all the general budgets, but the mere fact that you, and you in particular, have said that the 2018 budgets are the most social in history, being aware of the tiny budget allocations granted, makes the word lose meaning. It is shameful to see how they make statements saying that they are betting on a public social service system, when they finance - as you have said - with 40 rickets million euros the Concerted Plan of Basic Social Services Benefits, which is the funding provided by the social service centres of our neighborhoods and our villages, the closest to the neighbours and the neighbours. In these centers all the staff of the social intervention works in conditions of absolute precariousness, the ratios of the staff are scarce, the waiting lists for a social worker to attend to you can reach even three months, and this occurs because there is a clear intention to dismantle the entire network of the public system of social services by you, lords of the People's Party, and you, lords of Citizens, and this only responds to a logic, to continue walking the path of privatization. [[applause]] As we have denounced on many occasions, the People's Party and Citizens want to bring us back to times when charity and charity worked. And if we talk about attention to dependency, we see a real insult to the budget line that goes to people in dependency and to all professionals and families who take care of them. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, do you really know what a genuine inconsistency is? [[Show a document]] This, this is an incoherence, that when civil society organizations, professionals, caregivers and the family environment come, you have no problem in taking a picture with them and saying that you accept the five proposals that posed us in your pact. They're taking the picture and they're leaving the dependents behind again today because they're complicit in these budgets. [[Applauds]] Now I understand when you, lords of the Citizens Party, say that you only see Spaniards, that you do not see workers, workers and entrepreneurs. But don't you see Spanish without rights? Don't you see Spaniards who aren't given the rights they have by law, who are still waiting for the resources they have by law for dependents? In addition, you, the constitutionalists, should know that the attention to persons in dependency is reflected in article 149 of our Constitution. That's incoherent. I say again and even dare to tell both Citizens, the Basque Nationalist Party and the PP that they exercise a genuine criminal policy in the attention to dependence. And I say criminal because in this country more than a hundred people continue to die a day without receiving the resources and services they are entitled to by law. They know that with these budgets we will not be able to meet the more than 300,000 people on the current waiting list, we no longer talk about the future. It takes - we have been saying it for a very long time - an urgent reorganization of the whole care model. If we talk about functional diversity, more of the same. These budgets continue to treat as second-class citizenship the 4 million people with functional diversity in our country. We continue to lack sufficient resources to break down the barriers that prevent and deny equal opportunities to people with functional diversity without allocating sufficient funds, because everything that refers to social you continue to see as an expenditure and not an investment. That's your mistake. In conclusion, because I am running out of time, Minister, we will say no to these budgets because it is the distribution of crumbs and a total absence of the guarantee of rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcello. I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u26	Good morning. In just three minutes I don't have time to respond to all the demagogy and propaganda we've heard from the minister, but I'm going to try to at least disassemble three lies. The first is that these are the most social budgets in history. They're not. The second is that these budgets are looking at families. No, they're not looking at families, they're not looking at most families in this country. And finally, to this day the 200 million, the agreed financing of the state pact. Because what we have seen - and my colleague Anne Marcello has also explained before - is that this ministry, which is that of the sustainability of life, minister, does not, however, reach the height of life, not even that of palliative care. What are these general consensus budgets going to look like if all the agreements are dropped? What are these general equality budgets going to look like if they continue to promote the sexual division of labour, if they continue to foster the gender gap, if they continue to promote inequality also when it comes to caring for sick people in different places? And how are these General State Budgets going to be responsible if they've turned down the street, if they've turned down the pensioners, if they've turned down the 8M? How are these General State Budgets going to be responsible, consistent and agreed? [[Applauds]] You did not accept the amendments we had on health last year, and what happened? Because this year has been more unequal and less equitable, and we have seen how patients with rare diseases and expensive treatments in some communities were cared for and not in others. And we already see that the path of these budgets will take us to the same site, at least, last year, where half a million people made private insurance, precisely because of the public's shortcomings. This leads us to think that then we will have a health for those who can pay double insurance and another health, that of those who cannot, which will be a health of charity. [[Applauds]] If you want we talk about childhood and we talk about families, because you have cited them, and they worry about them. Since we have a recovery, when will it touch the families? More than anything because the choice of contributory benefits and tax benefits as the main measures for the family and children in these budgets increases the risk of leaving children in more vulnerable situations out of those benefits. Yeah, this is very social, this looks a lot at families. Yes, Minister. In addition to this, child benefit is the measure that has been demonstrated in countries such as Ireland to reduce child poverty more and more. The government still doesn't bet on this and leaves it in a ridiculous amount: 25 euros a month. This also does not reach most of the boys and girls below the poverty line, leaving more than half. Let's talk about equality, though it won't give me time anymore. My compañera de Compromís, Marta Sorlí, said very well: these budgets do not yet have the 80 million euros that the General Administration of the State should have. I could tell you that they are not in Justice, in Public Finance, in the Interior, that they are not in the books when we look at the numbers, but they may be because we have tabled an amendment precisely to make them, to make them 200 million. We had shown that, in fact, there could be 1050 million in this budget year. We're talking about 200 million, and this is just going to the crumbs. Moreover, it is terrible to have to be haggling, that you as a minister are allowing us to haggle and that this amendment we have tabled of 80 million will not have the support - let us hope you have it -. It is terrible that we are gnawing at this when we are talking about the women of this country, when we are talking about the lives of the women of this country. So, minister, I don't think you can feel anything proud of these budgets and we trust that, as minister, it will be the last time you present a section 26. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Ramón Utrabo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u28	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, a lie, as much as it is repeated, does not become truth and as much as you and your entire government come up here to say that these budgets are the most social, they are actually the most antisocial in the history of this country. [[Applauds]] Although, as you know, many national and international organizations are calling on Spain to correct the path of inequality, poverty and the loss of quality and coverage of public services, you are presenting yourselves here with clearly insufficient budgets to meet the health and social policies of this country. In order to meet the State's competences in health policy, much more is needed: we need a commitment that brings us closer to the level of health investment in the countries of our environment and, as we have proposed in our amendments, we need to recover the right of all people to health care as a right of citizenship; we need an improvement in the financing of the autonomous communities so that they can meet the transferred competences, with an adequate allocation of the Cohesion Fund; we need funding for therapeutic innovations; we need funding for health strategies, for health research, to improve the budget of Ingeza and to eliminate the pharmaceutical co-payment of those who have a contributory pension with a minimum supplement. [[Applauds]] In the social sphere, the Government of the People's Party must face the reality once and for all: almost 13 million people in our country are at risk of poverty, one in three children is at risk of social exclusion. The root causes are the weakening of the public protection system and the precariousness of employment. For the Socialist Group, social policies are a priority, and proof of that is the set of amendments we have tabled to these budgets. We bet to increase the amount of the child benefit. This measure is part of the minimum living income that we Socialists have been demanding. It is also essential to increase the allocation of the agreed plan, and we have also opted for policies that will improve active ageing. But, above all, we have paid special attention to the Dependency Care System, after the People's Party Government has weakened it to the point of bringing it almost to its dismantling. In order to push this forward, we have registered amendments aimed at recovering the agreed level, increasing the minimum level of funding and paying social security for non-professional caregivers. [[Applauds]] And what do you do, Minister? To send the political leaders of his party to demand that the debt be paid by the unit in the provincial and autonomous communities. That's what you've done. Is it possible to have less shame, to demand the leaders of the PP to the autonomous communities and the deputies to pay the debt for the dependence? When are you going to come to this Congress to claim it from you, who are the real responsible? [[Applauds]] They are really responsible because, as you yourself mentioned here, the report which the Commission has already issued for the study of the funding of the unit makes this clear. You barely fund between 17% and 21% of the dependency; the rest are provided by the Autonomous Communities. [[Applauds]] The People's Party Government continues to slow down the progress of the integration of persons with disabilities, and it does so, on the one hand, by vetoing fundamental bills for this group and, on the other, by not even recording the figures that were recorded by the former socialist governments. That's what you do with disability. In the area of drug addiction, the Government's low or zero interest has been reflected in the reduction, since 2011, of more than 42 per cent of the budget allocation for the National Drug Plan. And in terms of consumption, the reduction compared to last year is more than 16%. By the way, already in 2017 the consumption budget was quite diminished. In short, it is necessary to reverse the cuts and setbacks in social policies carried out by the People's Party, but it is true that not all responsibility lies with it. The partner parties in its budget have supported Socialist Group initiatives to regain the universality of health coverage, eliminate co-payments or adapt the funding needed for the unit. The same sign government agreements that pacts for dependence and, however, when it comes to truth, they become the accomplices of this government by supporting its policies. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing cannot be supported and the other cannot be supported. In politics, coherence is a primary value. And for you, for the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, a plea: do not start again with the inheritance, which you already have rather than wasted; do not talk to us about tax benefits or checks to face social policies. We want public services and we want to guarantee the rights of citizens. That's why we'll say no to your budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramon. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good morning. Minister, you are not in a position to teach socialists about equality, not one, who knows it, not one. [[Applauds]] Do you know why there will be 120 million euros in the budgets? Because we've broken most of you so simple. [[Applauds]] Because you neither listen, nor have commitment, nor maintain institutional solidarity; you only understand the language of the loss of the majority. Now I'm gonna tell you something else. You are showing the budgets, an increase in equality, which I have to tell you is absolutely ridiculous and, above all, an increase which does not compensate for the cut-off since you came to the government. Perhaps you should know that equality policies are not limited exclusively to gender-based violence. I'll give you some data. The Government of Castilla-La Mancha spends EUR 9 per inhabitant on the equality body. Do you know how much you dedicate? Only 0.4 euros. They target only 1.5 million to encourage equality plans and dedicate €0.03 to the integration of women victims of gender-based violence into the labour market for each existing complaint. Our amendments are intended, for example, to guarantee a decent pension for the survival of orphans, because the budgetary forecast you have made does not guarantee what this House is going to approve, and you know that the orphan law is going to go ahead. I don't think they should freeze the fight against sexual assault. You know why? Look at this tremendous fact: the macro-survey says that more than 1,400,000 women in this country claim to have suffered sexual assault. Do you think that is fought with 2 million euros? No, no, [[Applauds]] In two minutes I can only point out that our amendments to this section strengthen the promotion of women's employment, open up the incentive of equality plans to municipalities, strengthen support for university gender studies, bet on equal and non-transferable paternity permits and provide funds to combat LGBTphobia, which you have absolutely ignored. I am going to thank the Members who are going to make it possible, indeed, for us to have those 120 million of the pact. Do you know who they are? Mrs Oramas, who has consistently put her vote to the service of loyalty to the pact; Mr Quevedo, who refused to be complicit in unworthy non-compliance and, above all, each of the Members, particularly those of this bench, those of the Socialist Group, not only because of this compromise, but because they have placed this issue as a matter of priority in our opposition work and in our future government work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. Mr Igea Arisqueta has the floor on the position-setting table by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing Mrs Sorli's burning defence of the achievements in this budget, which have meant an increase in the budget with regard to gender-based violence, that burning defense of the struggle of feminists from within and from outside, of parliamentarians from inside and from outside, what I do not understand is why she is going to vote against it. [[Applauds]] In this we may have to refer to the words of the illustrious liberal thinker Juan Carlos Monedero, who said this week: Paul did not evaluate that he was going to get older. [[Laughter]] This is what we are talking about in budgets, whether we have become older. [[Applauds]] Because getting older in politics is taking responsibility, taking risks and not transferring them to others, not transferring your mistakes to your militancy, to the citizenry or to the party in front. Taking risks is taking commitments. That is what has a budgetary debate, and more so in a Parliament like this in which we have had the opportunity to demonstrate that majorities can be changed and that agreements can be reached. That is getting bigger, it is being able to accept the difference between the optimal and the failure that is in the agreement. But, well, we already knew that Podemos was a teenage party, we didn't need Mr. Coin for that. In fact, you have only tabled an amendment to this section 26 and we will see it at the time of the vote. What does that mean? We don't like it, take it away. This is all we are able to say about this budget. The amendment is 5487 and you will see it in the order of voting. Will you, gentlemen of the PSOE, ever leave the island of Never again or continue with the patrol of the lost children, Campanilla and Captain Garfio? [[Applauds]] You have tabled a full amendment calling for the return of this section for nine arguments that I am going to review. They said this was a cut-off budget and it's a cut-off budget that's been spent in the two years we've been in from 2023 to 2479 million. It's an increase of 20%. They don't look like cuts. Another argument was the argument of gender-based violence, the lack of budget. He's already here, he's already here. Will you explain why you are going to vote against this achievement, which is also yours? They also say that per capita investment in the autonomous communities is very poor in health care. You are well aware that investment in the autonomous communities is due to the Financing Act, which is your Financing Act. I therefore hope that you will agree with yourselves. This would be a sign of maturity. [[Applauds]] Another argument was that Ingesa has an insufficient budget. It is true that 240 million is an insufficient budget, which was 208 when you last ruled; that is, it has experienced an increase of 15%. If they were able to vote 208, I say they will be able to vote 240. [[Applauds]] With regard to public health, which you also criticise in your return amendment, it is true that there are many things to be done - we agree - but it has gone from 27 596 000 to 37 640 000. If they voted 27, I say they can vote 37. With regard to the cohesion funds, we told them right here that if you tabled an amendment and pledged to support the budget, we would vote in favour. We're still waiting for you. With regard to consumption, you yourselves in the refund amendment say that aid to consumer arbitration boards has increased by one hundred percent thanks to you and yet you are voting against yourself again. The truth is, it's hard to understand. They present a total of 57 amendments, worth more than 700 million and an increase of more than 25%, but what is worse is that this increase is three times higher than that which you presented in Pedro Sánchez's alternative budget. Lords of the Socialist Party, we already knew that Peter is Peter in English, what we didn't know is that Sanchez is Pan. [[Laughter.-Applause.-The President took the Chair.]] Why are we going to vote in favour of this budget? Because it includes improvements for lateral sclerosis, because it includes improvements in video interpretation, because it includes EUR 500 000 more in biomedical research and, above all, because it includes part of our investment agreement regarding thalidomide. And I'm going to tell you clearly, Mrs. Nogueras, I'm not satisfied either. I am not satisfied that I have moved from EUR 1 million in the 2011 budget to the EUR 20 and 50 million that will be budgeted for this year and next. I am not satisfied that I have passed from the five years of recognition to the thirty present so as not to let anyone affected escape. I am not satisfied with moving from the 24 recognized patients to the more than 400 who have already passed through the Commission. I am not satisfied that those affected by thalidomide can access the orthoprosthetic service free of charge and without a co-op, something they had not recognized; I am not satisfied that they have been excluded from the pharmaceutical co-op. I am not satisfied that Grünenthal is finally going to sit with the government to repair the victims, nor am I satisfied that compensation has been increased by 80% for those most affected and by 20% for those most affected by 2010. And you know why I'm not satisfied? Because we have not managed to close a wound in a dignified way, because we have not been able to sit with them and we have not been able to reach an agreement. That's why I'm not satisfied. But, gentlemen, we have become older, we do know that between the optimal and the failure is the agreement. We have become older because we know that, as the poet says: walker, there is no way, it makes way on the walk. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is only one step on the road to the demands and programs that Citizens have for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u32	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Navarro Lacoba.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Despite the intensity of two days of debate, this People's Parliamentary Group still has the strength to defend Section 26 of the 2018 State General Budgets with illusion. [[Applauds]] The Minister has said this very well and this People's Bank corroborates each of the words and points of her speech and, above all, each of the EUR 2779 million from the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality. If these general budgets have a common denominator in all sections, that is precisely their marked social character: 7 out of 10 euros are allocated to social expenditure. These budgets confirm two things: one, economic recovery and, two, the commitment of a government to people, with all, families, pensioners, young people, officials, millions of Spaniards who have done their best to overcome an unprecedented economic and social crisis. With the government's accounts to the House, significant social progress is being made; they are not checks, they are pension increases, tax cuts, an increase in paternity leave, deductions of more than 600 euros from the fourth child, and all this is possible thanks to two fundamental factors, which are essential for the sustainability and guarantee of our welfare society: economic growth and job creation. That is what really allows us to talk about a social budget today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left Bank, they have been trying to spread the social discourse for years, but they are failing in their formula. Their policies destroy jobs and spread poverty. They have told all the Spaniards out there: they are going to vote no to the General Budgets of the State, but they have not told them their alternative formula, they have not told them that they intend to hold the taxpayer's pocket at 40 billion euros with the Socialist Group's amendments and at 70 billion euros with the United Group's amendments. We know, because you have shown, that you know how to spend more, but we also know that you know that we know how to spend better and we also pay your debts, and I will remind you only some: EUR 16 billion in health care, EUR 1034 million in social security contributions for the non-professional caregivers of our dependents. [[applause]] No offense, but we are not going to fall twice into the mistake, we are not going to accept your amendments, and you are welcome to vote in favour of these budgets because it is voting in favour of the Spanish. The Group's amendments can be dismantled on their own. Amendment to the whole of section 26, third paragraph, page 4: We observe - they say - a model of de facto change in the management of access to a decent housing, and this is worrying. After the last few days, do you still feel the same way? Ask some of your leaders. [[Applauds]] The amendments of the independence groups amount to more than 80 between Esquerra Republciana and the PDECAT; they are almost 800 million euros for territorialized amendments in their area. More than Catalans you seem Egyptian, because the PDeCAT knew how to put our hand behind us we knew very well, but we have to see how well you know how to put it also ahead and without going to meetings to negotiate autonomous financing. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these general budgets are the commitment to a health system, to our National Health System and they strengthen universal, public and free health, and citizens say this by giving it the highest score of the last few years in the last health barometer and, outside, international agencies also put us in the top ten. Today, EUR 2 billion more is invested in health than ten years ago, but this is a competence of the autonomous communities as well and they have a role in this responsibility. You know why I'm saying that? Because I deeply regret that my neighbours in Castile-La Mancha, in my land, in Albacete, are suffering from the highest surgical waiting lists, so I'm going to ask you one last favor. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!-Rumors]] They know that our general budgets are going to be voted on, they amend your mistake. Tell Page and its Puemite government partners to invest 4248 million euros for autonomous financing in what the neighbours of Castilla-La Mancha need: to smooth the waiting lists and invest in the health infrastructures that he promised so much in electoral campaign and of which he has not put a single stone. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The commitment of these general budgets remains with the most vulnerable, it remains with the dependents, 46 million euros more than last year, 1401 million euros remains. In addition, we have lowered VAT on professional services so that they can access what they need most with quality and professionalism. It is precisely we who are meeting, now that their leaders are doing so too, by reducing waiting lists and we hope that they will work on it. These budgets are committed to young people, with 500 million youth guarantees; also to disability, with 1,200 euros of deduction per spouse with disabilities, and also, of course, with the solidarity equities of our companies, which will be able to allocate 0.7 of the tax on society. But, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a record in gender-based violence. The agreement reached in the State Pact against Gender Violence, with the exception of Podemos, which once again, showing its inconsistency, arose from it, has made the Government turn to present to the House the most committed budget for raising awareness, care, protection and combating gender-based violence: EUR 80 million for cross-cutting policies to other ministries and EUR 120 million for autonomous communities and local authorities. But, in the absence of agreement with the parties signing the pact, they are now moving to a specific part of the Government Delegation, which will hand over to the autonomous communities through the sectoral conference. Ladies and gentlemen, the money for gender-based violence was and is in the State General Budgets: EUR 608 million, a figure that demonstrates the government's commitment to ending this scourge and above all a will in accordance with all forces. Are you still going to vote no to these General State Budgets? Will they still vote no, despite the enormous effort they say they are making to include these items in our general budgets? End your repeated incongruences, your endless criticisms every day to which we are accustomed and press the green button. Say yes to women and a society free of macho violence. You in 2004, in the Organic Law against Gender Violence, 10 million euros. Today, with commitment and responsibility, 200 million euros. [[Applauds]] I should like to conclude, Madam President, by thanking the political forces that support these budgets, which will improve the quality of life of all Spaniards. And, of course, I also want to acknowledge the enormous work of a government with experience and, above all, with a public service vocation. Few of them were betting a few years ago that today we would meet at this time of the legislature and here we are, thanks to the work that our Government is doing today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u34	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate on sections 12, Foreign and Cooperation Affairs, and 34, Financial Relations with the European Union. For the presentation of the sections, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to appear in this House to set out the broad lines of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. The consolidated budget for 2018, including the resources allocated to the department, the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation and the Cervantes Institute, amounts to EUR 1558 million, with an increase of 3,89 % over the previous year. Specifically, the department's budget for 2018 grows by 1.95% compared to 2017 and stands at 1396.56 million euros. Of this amount, around EUR 214 million corresponds to the non-financial budget and EUR 1182 million to the financial budget. For its part, the budgets of the Aecid and the Cervantes Institute grow in 2018 by 14,6 and 2,83 % respectively. It is an advance that satisfies us, but that does not prevent us, as head of the department, from always aspire to more for our foreign and cooperation policy. With this budget the department faces two fundamental challenges in 2018: our presence as a member of the UN Human Rights Council for the period 2018-2020, after being elected by the General Assembly last October. It is a clear indication of Spain's commitment to human rights, which, as you know, is a priority axis of our foreign policy. The implementation of the V Plan Director of Spanish Cooperation for the period 2018-2021 is the second major challenge. This master plan was presented to this Parliament by the Secretary of State for Cooperation and for Ibero-America and the Caribbean on 20 February and approved by the Council of Ministers on 23 March. The plan transfers to Spanish policy the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in its components of international cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, after this brief introduction, allow me to structure my presentation around three axes. Firstly, I will comment on the main variations in the department's budget by expenditure chapters; secondly, I will refer to the budgets of Aecid and, thirdly, to those of the Cervantes Institute. As regards the first of its matters, the main changes by expenditure chapters, this draft budget for 2018 provides for staff expenditure EUR 314.74 million, 4% higher than the initial budget for 2017, reaching 26,6% of the non-financial budget of the head department. This includes both the increase in the remuneration of public employees agreed in March between the Administration and the trade unions, and the adjustment to the reality of the planned expenditure in the department, mainly in the cost of the salary equalization module of purchasing power and quality of life of salaries of officials posted abroad. As regards current expenditure on goods and services, its amount amounts to EUR 116.25 million, less than 10% of the department's non-financial budget and 1.07 % above the budgeted expenditure in 2017. This increase is practically located in the strengthening of the security of our representations abroad, quantified at 1.34 million euros. In relation to current and capital transfers, these account for 62.08 % of the non-financial budget of the department and amount as a whole to €733.93 million - 85 % more than in 2017 - of which 287.5 million correspond to transfers made by the department to Aecide and the Cervantes Institute, to which I will refer later. On the rest of the items of expenditure I would like to stop at the following. In the field of the Secretariat of State for Foreign Affairs, mandatory contributions to international agencies and peacekeeping operations reach €426.8 million following increases in 2016 and 2017. This enables us to fulfil our international commitments in time and form and to ensure the reliable country image that is aware of the payment of the contributions. For its part, voluntary contributions to international organizations and entities are provided with €4.1 million, of which €1 million will be allocated to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. [[Rumors]] Also, among others, there will be contributions to the Permanent Secretariat of the Sahel G5 to enhance gender training, to the fund to cover the participation of Spaniards in election observation missions in the OSCE... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u36	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u37	... the International Commission against the Death Penalty, the Trust Fund for the Victims of the International Criminal Court, UN Women, the Union for the Mediterranean and the Council of Europe to strengthen their work in the defence and promotion of human rights. Finally, we will allocate as a whole, either through the Aecid, or through the Secretariat of State for Foreign Affairs, EUR 5.97 million to our network of houses, an instrument of public diplomacy at the service of the foreign action of the State. In the field of the activities of the Secretary of State for International Cooperation and for Ibero-America and the Caribbean, we will dedicate €9.47 million to the International Financial Facility for Immunization, dedicated to the prevention of infant mortality through the extension of vaccination. We will also allocate €1.15 million for transfers to the International Foundation and to Ibero-America for Administration and Public Policy, to foundations of political parties with parliamentary representation at the national level for cooperation purposes and to non-profit institutions active in the field of development cooperation. In the field of the Secretariat of State for European Affairs we will be immersed in the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework, which will determine the budget of the European Union from 2021 onwards, with the United Kingdom outside the Union. We will also continue to defend our interests in the European Union by promoting excellent relations with our neighbours, especially at a difficult time when, on the one hand, the negotiation of the Brexit is being addressed and, on the other, the future of a Union of twenty-seven is being reflected. [[Rumors]] In this context, Spain, as you know and as I have said several times in my appearances before this Parliament, is committed to greater integration. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u38	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u39	In line with this, we maintain the two nominative grants to associations or horizontal organisations of great European tradition, as well as the competitive grant for the Talk about Europe Programme, which encourages European debate and actions to disseminate European Union policies. On the other hand, the amounts for the protection of Spanish nationals abroad, amounting to EUR 2.35 million, will be allocated to subsistence and extraordinary economic aid, to care institutions and to Spanish nationals deprived of their liberty in foreign prisons, as well as to manage repatriations of Spanish nationals in case of need, with special follow-up in the case of repatriations of victims of gender-based violence. As you know, our consular service is the door to the Spanish Administration abroad and is doing a commendable job in protecting the Spanish abroad. As for the human resources of the MAEC, during 2018, according to the present draft budgets, the ministry will have 6,200 public employees, of which 1504 are destined in the central services and 4696 abroad providing its services in our 118 embassies, 90 consulates and 10 permanent representatives to international agencies. These are limited human resources, given the greater demands that our consular services face, not only because of the increase in the number of Spaniards registered in the Consular Registration, but also because of the increase in tourist movements, as well as the greater presence of Spanish companies abroad. There has also been an increase in visa applications, 40% more between 2006 and 2016, which is a clear indication of our country's attractiveness abroad. Therefore, this department is carrying out a deconcentration process to meet these new needs and sets out as one of its priority objectives the updating of the catalogue of posts abroad, with a view to providing excellent care and service to our citizens abroad. We also seek to maximize the revenues received by the State in terms of consular fees. Specifically, in 2017 around €90 million was raised for the Public Treasury. I continue, ladies and gentlemen, with investments, where we will have EUR 17 million, which will allow us to continue our policy of maintaining and improving our assets abroad, paying particular attention to investments in physical and electronic security of our representations. Finally, in the chapter on financial assets, the allocations of the Water and Sanitation Cooperation Fund and the Development Promotion Fund or Fonprode are maintained at EUR 15 million and EUR 199.23 million respectively. In addition, the Water and Sanitation Cooperation Fund has the possibility of financing new operations through extrabudgetary resources received from completed operations, which are exceptionally included in this exercise in 2017 and 2018. The maximum expenditure ceiling for both concepts is extended by EUR 42 million. In turn, the Fonprode maintains an annual limit of 375 million in terms of the volume of operations that the Council of Ministers may authorise during the financial year from the fund. This cooperation instrument is undergoing a thorough review with the aim of consolidating Spanish financial cooperation and bringing it to levels of funding similar to those of other donors in our environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the broad lines of the budget of the Aecid and the Cervantes Institute, as I said before. In 2018, Aecid will manage a budget of 325.96 million euros, 41.5 million more than in 2017. Of this amount, $237.57 million is national funding. The bulk comes from the transfer of the MAEC, which amounts to 221.24 million euros, a 5.34 more than in 2017, i.e. an increase of 11.2 million euros that will be allocated, as a priority, to humanitarian action, non-governmental development organisations and bilateral cooperation actions. In addition, other revenues, such as 1.15 million euros that Aecid will receive from the State Public Employment Service to co-finance the School-Workshop Programme or 15 million euros from other revenues generated by the agency itself. Some EUR 33 million will be added to the abovementioned items as a result of the definitive liquidation of the IRPF for activities of social interest. In addition, Aecid will receive 88.39 million from the European Union for delegated cooperation, compared to 58 million in 2017. Spain is the third managing country of cooperation delegated to the European Union, after Germany and France, which demonstrates the confidence that the Union places in us. That trust is also an important asset of Spanish cooperation. I would like to comment briefly on some of the items of particular relevance to the Aecid expenditure budget. We maintain the allocation of EUR 26 million for the Office for Humanitarian Aid, although our objective is to implement around EUR 36 million at the end of the year, as indicated in the V Plan Director, which says, literally, that in the increase in resources of the Spanish Official Development Assistance, humanitarian aid will be increased to a greater extent in relation to other instruments. The Office for Humanitarian Action, following a strategy applauded by the OECD Development Assistance Committee itself, will focus its efforts on priority countries, inescapable commitments and those acquired at international summits. We will increase funding to development NGOs, which will be carried out through the following instruments. On the one hand, the call for multi-annual agreements, published on 9 April, which will be financed between 2018 and 2021 and will amount to EUR 40 million. On the other hand, three annual calls for development cooperation projects, humanitarian actions and actions in innovation for development. And, thirdly, the nominative subsidy for the coordinator of development NGOs in Spain and the co-financing of the insurance of co-operatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now finish with a reference to the draft budgets of the Cervantes Institute. The Cervantes Institute will count this year with a transfer of the MAEC of 66.2 million euros; a 3.2 more than in 2017. The total expenditure budget of the Cervantes Institute amounts to EUR 3.4 million up to EUR 123.94 million, i.e. it increases by 2.83 %. We will keep the revenues for the activities of the institute for a total amount of 52.4 million euros, once the revenues of the project of nationality started in 2016 have stabilized, after the approval in October 2015 of the new regulations on acquisition of the Spanish nationality. In addition, EUR 500 000 will be allocated to finance the launch of a new headquarters of the Cervantes Institute in Dakar, Senegal, which will be the first centre to be opened in sub-Saharan Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have a main idea of this whole presentation. As you can see, the budgets I am presenting today reflect the largest increase in transfers from the State to Spanish cooperation since 2011, since in previous years the situation of inherited excessive deficit had not allowed us to improve its budget allocation. Indeed, once the path of economic growth has begun, it is our intention to work on further increases for the coming fiscal years, because cooperation is a State policy and a priority for our country. We are therefore faced with budgets that recognize the importance of our country's foreign policy and cooperation and the commitment of this Government to both of them is total. As I have had occasion to reiterate at this parliamentary seat, Europe and the international community as a whole require a greater presence of Spain, and we have a duty not to disappoint them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u40	Thank you very much. In the defence of amendments, Mr Salvador Armendáriz intervenes by the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to apologize for taking the opportunity to talk a little bit about Navarra's general budgets and not specifically about your section. That is why I do not think anyone will be surprised if I tell them that the priority of my party is that Spain is getting better and that, from politics, also through these budgets, we help people, all families and all Spaniards, also shipwrecks, to carry out their vital project, their vital projects with guarantee of success. [[The lady]] Therefore, we do not like secession adventures, those that deliberately seek conflict or those that pretend that we are the others who endorse division and inequality; nor do we like those identity and obsessive dreams that invent nations where there are none; nor do we like populist movements that preach one thing and do exactly the opposite, in Pamplona, Alsasua, Vallecas or Galapagar. With this priority objective, which is to help people, we come to focus these budgets with two criteria: one that is general and consists of comparing - it is easy - with the previous years what is happening in our country. And it's simple, let's look at the parameters, the economic indicators and, depending on that, let's make a decision and see whether or not budgets actually serve to control the public deficit, whether the risk premium has fallen, whether there is more employment, whether there is more stability and more growth. I think that's a logical, objective parameter. There is a second parameter that helps us value a decision - in case it wasn't enough in this case - that is to know these remarkable and important social improvements that incorporate budgets, social improvements that are even well seen by the opposition in privacy, believe me. We therefore believe that this budget gives confidence, generates stability and both will produce growth. Another criterion is what Navarra is given from these budgets. We do not start from scratch, because last year we reached a very important agreement with the Government that is being properly implemented, with two basic infrastructures, which, by the way, are not being met by the lack of ambition and the disdain of the Government of Navarre. I am referring to the high-speed train passing through Navarra and the extension of the Navarra Canal. This year we will continue with these two infrastructures and, at the same time, we will politically boost other investments, such as A-15, AP-15 and A-121. In addition, we have reached a number of important agreements in a wide range of areas with the PP. We have reached an agreement to seek competitiveness in the automotive sector, which, as you know, is very important in Navarre; we have reached an agreement in the environmental sector and in agri-food; we will improve infrastructure and equipment in some localities and we have also reached a relevant staff agreement. In conclusion, I would like to highlight and thank the agreement signed by the President of my party and the President of the Government assessing the end of terrorism, an agreement in which the permanent debt of the Spanish society is recognized with the victims of ETA, it reminds everyone that the organizational end of the band does not entail the disappearance of any of its responsibilities, it eliminates any hint of impunity and also affirms the need to preserve the political unity of the Democrats and, yes, very important, the usefulness of the anti-terrorism pact, which is also recognized as the only political and institutional reference to analyse the consequences of the end of ETA and therefore cannot be replaced by others. We attach great importance to this pact, because obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we should close this chapter of our history and make sure that no one else is going to pick nuts because others are exercising violence and blackmail with Spain. It has not been an easy negotiation and I would therefore like to express my gratitude to the parliamentary team of the PP and to the people who in Moncloa and also in my party have achieved this agreement. As I say, we believe that it will serve that priority objective that I said at the beginning, that is, to improve the lives of the Spaniards and, no doubt, also of the Navarros, which is in the end what we all want. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk about the chapter on foreign affairs at this time of debate and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the whole House. Finally, I will make a reference to another aspect. From the Democratic Party we will oppose this section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with inertial budgets, budgets that we could call pachydermically inertial in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs led to the adoption of a very important law, the Foreign Service Act, at the end of the 2011-2015 long legislature, specifically in July 2015. The adoption of that law marked clear vectors of action in the field of external action that have not occurred and that this year's budget does not reflect. Without going further and setting an example for them, that law clearly envisaged a reordering of the map of consulates and embassies to give better external service. Three years after the adoption of that law, in France there are still ten consulates that are explained in the logic of the post-war period and in the logic of the years of Spanish emigration to France, but that are not explained in today's reality. It is not explained that in France there have been consulates in Pau, Bayonne, Perpignan, up to ten consulates, and that instead there are no embassies in strategic countries in other parts of the world, such as Asia. The Foreign Service Act has not been implemented, this draft budget has not been used to give a modernizing and reforming impetus, according to the consensus that was achieved in part with the reform of the foreign service. Second reference. The Democratic Party has discussed several times with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, even in an inquiry a few weeks ago, the responsibility of his ministry in the implementation of the Electoral Law with regard to the voting of Spanish citizens residing abroad, since the recognition shared by thousands of citizens who have suffered from the current poor application of the Law and the violation of the fundamental right to vote, which they have not been able to practice. Nor is there a shock plan in these General State Budgets to address one of the major gaps in the functioning of the foreign service. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled seven amendments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, 27 of them in the field of cooperation. I have to recognise that there has been an improvement in cooperation policies in recent years and the good work done by external services in terms of cooperation. In conclusion, if I may, Madam President, I would like to make a very brief reference but I cannot go on without it. In the last speech by the Member of the Group of the European People's Party, before the start of the foreign section, in the chapter on Health and Social Policy, the Member said that the amendments of the Republican Left and the Democratic Party had tabled so many amendments and for such a large amount that we did not seem Catalan, that we seemed Egyptian. Well, Madam President, I would ask you to take into account that this is a contempt not for the Catalans but for the Egyptians. Since we are in the chapter on international relations, let the spokesman of the People's Group take into account whether to stigmatize or denigrate a person can be described as Egyptian. Egypt is a country of the Arab world, the most important in the Arab world, with 100 million inhabitants, who have all our respect because they are people of the same condition. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u44	Then, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Left has tabled 1,200 amendments to these 2018 general budgets. That shows that we have a global, alternative and coherent proposal in front of them. This fact cannot be trivialized simply as being toasts to the sun; what surely will never be is in front of the sun. As a sign of responsibility, I want to clarify to some who speak lightly that our party has eighty-seven years of life, no cases of corruption and has its president, the very honorable vice president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Oriol Junqueras, today in prison accused without cause or evidence. That's why he's a political prisoner. Our president was responsible for the most social budgets in the history of Catalonia, where social spending was increased and where there was an uninterrupted increase in GDP that doubled the average of the European Union and the eurozone during that period due to the strong growth of the industrial sector. As for public finances, Junqueras managed to contain the deficit and reduced the weight of the autonomous debt in relation to Catalan GDP for two consecutive years. Previously, as mayor of San Vicenç dels Horts, he had quadrupled the budget in social policies and reduced the debt of his city council to zero. All these data are verifiable. In this section of the general budgets, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left of Catalonia has tabled 24 amendments, since it does not share the priorities, the lines or the political objectives set. We believe that the resources allocated to international cooperation for development, humanitarian aid and the promotion of human rights are deficient and re-emphasize the priorities of this Executive when it comes to external action. Once again, these budgets show that the Spanish Executive still does not meet its economic commitments in the area of development aid. The strategies and priorities followed in relation to ODA place the Spanish State at the head of the European Union as a percentage of non-genuine aid in relation to the total budgetary volume allocated to this area. The official development aid heading has benefited from a negligible and irritating increase of 0.22% in gross national income, which is insufficient to achieve the 0.4 target committed in this House in this legislature. If we projected the increase as it unfolded, it would take us fifteen years to reach 0.4% and we could almost talk about utopia to reach the historical 0.7%. At this rate, we are decades away from reaching the current European average, which is 0.52%. It should be made clear that more than half of the official development assistance budget, almost 65%, is earmarked for compulsory contributions to international bodies: to the European Union, attached to the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, and to multilateral development financial agencies, such as the Inter-American Development Bank or the African Development Bank, attached to the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation continues to play a devalued role in development cooperation. It only manages 25.6 per cent of budgeted resources, putting the quality of aid and its orientation towards poverty eradication at risk. Budgets are needed for organizations and institutions working to end hunger, for the defence and protection of human rights, for humanitarian aid and for the development of refugee aid programmes. This year we have also considered it essential to table amendments to provide the United Nations Agency for Palestine Refugees with an urgent budget to ensure and preserve the provision of vital services in the coming years, following Donald Trump's Government's decision to freeze more than half of its contribution and put this agency on the loose rope. [[The Lord]] As for our external representations, which exist in all the autonomous communities, the so-called "embassies" - such as the Diplomat and the delegations of the Government of the Generalitat, the sectoral offices of Acció, the Ramón Llull Institute, the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, the Catalan Tourism Agency and the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation - with the application of 155, the Spanish Government has been responsible for annihilating most of these instruments and bodies that advocate for the economic, social and cultural impulse of Catalonia. The halting of subsidies to Catalan communities abroad, the dismissal and dismissal of dozens of workers from these organizations, as well as the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Generalitat, highlight the inquisitorial path being followed by the Spanish Executive. An anecdote that many people do not know: when the application of 155, a list was asked of the council with all the officials of the Generalitat abroad, and when the complete list of names was passed, they answered: No; we want the list of all the embassies, not of one. A fortune has been spent on the liquidation of buildings, rents and breach of contracts. In this section we have tabled amendments to the extent that there are more than 130 Catalan communities abroad and 165 universities offering studies related to Catalan and Catalonia. It is essential that in the promotion of language and culture Catalan speakers are not marginalized and that budget is transferred to the Ramon Llull Institute. In conclusion, I cannot fail to mention here the Councillor for Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, the most honourable Councillor Raül Romeva, who is also in prison today, accused without cause or evidence. That's why he's also a political prisoner. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Farré Fidalgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u47	Thank you, President. I must start by insisting that we do not have a foreign policy; this is a consensus in the opposition and we have been repeating it in the parliamentary committees. If we look at the budgets, we see, yes, a timid increase over 2017, but the cut that has accumulated since 2009 is 57 % abroad, and if we look at Cooperation, contempt and abandonment are very serious: official Spanish development aid has been cut by 80 % and humanitarian aid by 95 %. And it is that the problem is an accused lack of political will, which is something different from wanting to do something or having the intention to do it at some point; political will involves doing it, and commitment and love in politics are demonstrated in the budgets, and here there is neither will nor politics. In the parliamentary committees, the Group of the European People's Party is voting in favour of external initiatives and cooperation which it then puts in a drawer, even if they have been adopted with its votes, with broad parliamentary agreements or with unanimity. However, these agreements do not appear anywhere in the budgets; they remain in agreements and in words. I would remind you of some of the initiatives that we have adopted and that we have tabled in the format of amendments. For example, there were four in the Cooperation Commission, which urged the Government to increase international cooperation and humanitarian aid. The establishment of a permanent bureau for the follow-up of the Spanish membership to the Human Rights Council, for civil society and parties to provide advice and control to the Government, or the impetus for an international convention in defence of LGBTI rights, in which Spain could and should have leadership, was also approved. We also lack positions that do not embarrass us in the face of the attacks in Gaza, in humanitarian crises, in the management of migration in Libya and Turkey; positions that focus on human rights, on people and not on the economy, and that are up to the solidarity shown by citizens. We bet, for example, on the arms embargo on Israel and on amendments proposing to increase the departure for the United Nations Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East and for multilateral agencies that push the women's rights agenda and support for migrants and asylum seekers; to dignify the working conditions of the external staff of Aecide or to increase scholarships for studies and practices at the Diplomatic School to democratize their access. In addition, the fight against macho violence is central to foreign policy, and here again it is necessary to move from words to facts, because it is regrettable that we have to take away the government from the PP parties in order to comply with something so basic and so cross-cutting. That is why there are three amendments that should be adopted without excuses: one, to provide budgetary support for the 2015 Protocol of Action for the Care of Women Victims of Gender-based Violence Abroad, which has barely been implemented, as the Government itself has recognized us in parliamentary questions and requests for information; one, to fund an equality policy plan in the Ministry itself that addresses the very small number of women in senior positions, which is now only 24%; and another that advocates a cooperation programme to combat gender inequality. In order to remedy the lack of political will, the lack of foreign policy and to ensure transparency, coherence and broad consensus-building, we also consider it necessary for the current Human Rights Office to become an office for policy coherence, human rights and gender equity. We also believe that we need a new external action strategy, drawn up in a participatory manner and consulted with Parliament, the creation of an interterritorial council for foreign policy and action, in order to strengthen coordination between ministries but also between the different territories of the State, and a plan to promote our languages and cultural expressions in Europe and in the European institutions, reflecting the multilingualism, multiculturality and plurinationality of the State. To live up to the challenges of our time, of the geopolitical moment we are living in, we need to match the budget allocated to Casa África, Casa Arab or Casa Sepharad-Israel, as we told them last year; we need to improve the programme for the protection of human rights defenders and we need to increase the allocations for peace processes in the Middle East and Colombia. In cooperation, it is not enough to say again that we will be working to increase the increases in the future, we must increase official development aid in order not to follow the lines of European countries, because at this rate we need fifteen years to reach 0,40, which was the commitment by 2020; we must comply with the Cooperation Act, which says that Aid should be the main agent and, therefore, the funds it manages, as well as the funds managed by NGOs, which are now a residual player, when they should be one of the main players, because they know the sector, the field and the context; we must implement and monitor Agenda 2030 and we must increase monetary aid. This is another commitment that the PP has thrown away. Ten years ago, 350 million were allocated, and this year 19 million. I don't know about you, but I'm just ashamed of this figure. Moreover, since the beginning of the crisis, the number of Spaniards who choose to emigrate has continued to grow. The figure is 2.5 million and, moreover, this emigration is often precarious and highly qualified, without this being exclusive, but it is often left out of consular registration for the health exclusion to which it was condemned under Royal Decree 16/2012. In order to improve their living conditions, we are proposing amendments to strengthen consular assistance services throughout the network to ensure that the requested vote is effective. In the case of the United Kingdom and because of the Brexit, it is urgent to draw up a study on the real dimensions and nature of Spanish emigration. I would like to end with three amendments to Section 34, which, although they do not question the mandatory and already established general contributions to the European Union, do want to show that the heading that Spain is making to the Refugee Fund for Turkey can be used in a completely different way, that it is not compulsory or fixed and that it is currently mostly a militarized management of migratory flows and not in accordance with human rights. The three amendments propose that Spain should be the driving force behind a plan to combat poverty and child exclusion within the European Union, a European strategy for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention on Gender Violence in Migration and Asylum Matters and the implementation of the communication on the protection of unaccompanied migrant children in the European Union. In short, there are thirty-five amendments with which we want to invest more and spend better, putting human rights and people at the centre of foreign policy and cooperation policy, and this is achieved by two things: political will and economic resources. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Farré. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. It is obvious that your department is not a department of large volumes of investment - except in the part of cooperation, that will treat my partner Carlota Merchán - and your credits are for the current functioning of the ministry, but that certain financial anemia cannot be translated into a political anemia or a proposed asthenia. I'm afraid I'm insisting on lines you've already heard from some other spokesperson. Precisely because his ministry is not a ministry that needs to be concerned about the problems associated with large contracts or budget execution, there is a lot of room in it for politics, and that is why I wanted to focus our amendments from the point of view of that political action that we insist upon from the opposition. His Government presumed on the external facet of its reliability and predictability. It does not seem to me that it is wrong to be reliable and predictable, provided that it does not become an excuse for a certain follow-up or indolence. That reliability with the partners that you exhibit, must be the basis of credibility to propose questions and put things on the agenda by our country and place Spain in the place where it should be, and not just because, for example, Britain has disappeared from the stage and a free chair remains. I will give you an example that has nothing to do with its management, but with the presence of Spain abroad. Yesterday, public television in France, Germany and Italy announced the creation of a platform to - in journalistic terms - compete with Netflix. Where's the Spanish TV? This kind of thing is what makes Spain present abroad and it seems to me to be a good example of what the Government should do to maintain that presence at the level that our country deserves. Budgets are continuous; inertial, said comrade Xuclà. Recovery is not noticed. You are still going to go ahead and put aside the cooperation, which will now be dealt with by my colleague. Indeed, they only grow in staff and do not manage to have the volume they had, not in the last socialist government, but in the first budget of Mr Rajoy's government. For these reasons, we have tabled a group of amendments to the part of the ministry to which I am referring in several lines. First, we propose a strengthening of multilateralism at a time when that scheme, that way of working in the international world is being questioned by the Trump administration or by the Brexit; that is why we are talking about contributions, in addition to compulsory quotas. In this regard, there is a heading that will have to be determined on what is to be spent and there are extrabudgetary projects, contributions to UN agencies, in our case, in addition to others for the Palestinian Refugees Agency and the Red Cross. We propose to form a new generation of young people in international relations, Minister. To that end, one of the instruments can be electoral observation, which must lead to the incorporation of that huge number of young people who took the course of the ministry and who are hoping to be able to do electoral observation missions. It takes money for that. Another proposal is the democratization of access to the Diplomatic School, Minister, also in a geographical sense. It cannot be easier to access the Diplomatic School if you live in Madrid than if you live in Gerona or Huelva, so we will have to find formulas for young people from all over Spain to join the Diplomatic School. On the other hand, we propose the presence of many young people through scholarships, through secondments, throughout the international world, because that will be the ferment to have an international presence of Spain in the coming years. Another proposal is contributions to entities or think tanks. Minister, I know this is a competitive procedure; let us not leave the Cidob any further away from where they want to put it. We also propose support to the Yuste Academy and Elcano, an essential tool for the dissemination of our external activity. We believe it is important to develop a human rights policy, because there are countries whose international presence derives from their human rights policy; I am thinking of Sweden or Switzerland. As for the humanitarian aspect of the ministry, we must increase the departures to which you have referred for prisoners, for repatriations and for asylum-seekers. On the other hand, there are two issues that I do not want to fail to point out. One of them is the loss of purchasing power of the Ministry's labor workers due to inflation in the countries in which they work, because you have referred to officials, but not to workers. The other is the issue of Cervantes. Let us not invent much with Cervantes; let us finance it, because it has been an instrument that has always worked. I conclude, Minister, by telling you that you have not accepted any amendments from the opposition and that this does not marry the pragmatic character that you intend to give to your profile as ruler. I think you should review that situation by the end of the budget procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u50	I have the floor for the Socialist Group, Mrs Merchán Mesón.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u51	Thank you, President. The Government presents budgets that consolidate development cooperation as an accessory policy, not as it is, a State public policy. Ladies and gentlemen, they had frankly easy to present a sign that this was going to be the budget for recovery, but cooperation, like all policies, is not ideologically neutral and does not appear in the portfolio of priorities of the right, of the two right, because, are these the citizen cooperation budgets? They have chosen to consolidate a budget similar to that which we had at the end of the 1980s, 0.22% of gross national income, compared to the European average of 0.52. But if the amount is unacceptably low, so is the distribution of resources, which lacks strategic vision. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, responsible for this policy, manages 25% of the budget. Do you imagine a similar situation in another ministry? No, right? 64% of the aid budget is compulsory. Can you imagine a similar situation in another ministry? No, right? [[Applauds]] Of the 587 million that he manages his ministry, 200 are from Fonprode, repayable, and at best - said his Government - half would be executed if possible. The trap of aid, Minister, is that it is budgeted knowing that it will not be implemented: round operation. But Aecid's budget is increasing thanks to 89 million European funds; of Spanish funds, it is 9 million, Minister, that is its increase. With regard to my group's amendments, they contain questions adopted by the majority of this House, we have made it very easy for them: to set ourselves on the path to 0.4, to allocate 10% of official development aid to humanitarian action - never in history have there been so many people who depended on humanitarian action - and to provide resources and capacities to implement the 2030 agenda, on which cooperation is a lever. From our partial amendments I will highlight three blocks, which are based on distributing the funds that we already know are not going to be implemented. That is the proposal we are making. How? Increasing humanitarian action, which has been cut by more than 90 per cent, and it is an emergency, because it is simply and simply about saving lives, so urgently it is; increasing funds for non-governmental organizations for development, for field projects and also for development education; strengthening multilateralism, the United Nations Agency for Palestine Refugees, the International Committee of the Red Cross, key in the defence and protection of human rights defenders, and the Global Fund against AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis, whose contribution this House and the Government have already rejected. I end up addressing the citizens' comrades. We already know the commitment of the People's Party to the cooperation that you have criticized with real vehemence, even with histrionism, but your commitment disappears when it is necessary to put budget. Where is the orange color in development cooperation? Where is he? What arguments are they going to deny support for amendments that they have adopted in the Commission? [[Applauds]] You said that we have a duty not to disappoint, Minister, those who are waiting for us. Of course with their budgets we will continue to disappoint, and here, especially out there and away there are many people who are still waiting for us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Merchán. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u53	Good morning. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the defence of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation is undoubtedly the defence of what Spain projects, of that Spain which has been able to believe in itself, of that Spain which has invested in generating growth and employment for all, which has had to deal with one of the worst waves of populism in the world, which has confronted the most spurious of secessionist movements encouraged by the post-truth in the world of globalization. But it is that Spain that has committed itself to the rule of law, to the value of the law - the only thing that makes us all equal in democracy - to the reforms that generate prosperity for all and that bring to this House budgets that begin to restore the prosperity that Spanish society generates thanks to the successful policies of the People's Party. It is true that in the centre-right we talk a lot about realism in public accounts. This is called coherence, a coherence that some groups begin to discover and that some consider a virtue bourgeois or boring, but virtue in the end. From here I want to pay tribute to all the men and women, and their families, who dedicate their lives to foreign service, to serve Spain with a dedication and love that are inspiration for this spokesman and for his group. The speech of some political groups is very disappointing. They lack rigor, the least seriousness that is due to all Spaniards. They have repeated the same intervention as last year. They end their discourse as they realize how complex politics is, when they seek to govern for everyone and not just for the foundations. I'll let you know it's a qualitative leap. They remind me of a phrase by Machiavello, not of those who like you, in terms of power, but of those who like us more than those who serve Spain and the Spanish. It's much more subtle and complex: Some always walk along paths that are trellised by others, imitating their predecessors. Well, this path already leads to the melancholy that they will begin to inhabit. The spokesman for the Podemos Group said that we should pay more attention to women. Much work is being done on combating gender-based violence and on equality, highlighting the Protocol on Action of Women Victims of Gender-based Violence Abroad, which is being developed through various actions, or the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities 2018-2021, which is in the final stage of preparation, which has the unanimous favourable reports of the State Council for Women's Participation. He has also asked us to talk about equality between positions. They have a problem with freedom. To enter the diplomatic career I prefer what the Constitution contains: merit and capacity. You prefer something else, which is what you use in your party. Finally, it had proposed to change the Office of Human Rights to the Office of Political Coherence. Then apply it to him at home. I'm going to reveal to you a secret of the success of PP's policies. Some requirements are needed to govern Spain, but there is one fundamental one: to speak well of Spain. [[Applauds]] To speak well of Spain and some like to speak badly, others like to repeat it many times, as if it were a child's prayer, and others change it for possible synonyms. It's very easy. Speak well of Spain and the Spaniards and see how they change their way of doing politics. That is betting on our external projection with rigor and realism. This increase, as the minister said, of 3.89%, which is 1558 million, in the world of globalization, where the People's Party is the only one that has brought to this House that reality, that real debate of modernity so that Spain and the Spanish are not condemned for the low level of vision being a reality of those countries that are self-referential and think that the world is them, their primary ones, their tweets. The world is becoming global and to that end we want Spain, which we are going to leave to our children, not to be wrong about priorities. That is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation is at the forefront and that is what these budgets are dedicated to. These are Spain's political priorities, which can read this modern world. Spain, Europe, Brexit, Ibero-America, North Africa with the Africa, Asia and North America Plan. I've repeated it several times. The weight of any nation is already an explanation of theorists of the past; now it goes to qualitative contributions in this technological, technical and rapid world and there is the Foreign Minister righting. That is why we prioritize culture in these budgets through the Cervantes Institute and cooperation. Yes, and cooperation, because solidarity is crucial together with the improvement of the human resources of Aecide. We are concerned about our presence on the Human Rights Council, the multilateral quotas take much of the ministry, Mr. Sánchez Amor, and we have approved the Master Plan. It is not acceptable to table amendments, as the opposition groups have done on the grounds that they work hard, for almost 450 million. It's three ephes in a row: fantasy, party, and futility. To the projection of the Spaniards abroad, to the way the Spaniards are abroad, there is also more money and here it is frightening the amendment to section 12 presented by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya to talk about how the Diplocat had been dismantled, which is the money that they were drawing from their hospitals and schools for the autobomb of the trial, and that managed that no nation of the United Nations recognized it. The other day in an interview on the spoken radio a Catalan professor of Physics, of the properties of thermodynamics. He said that entropy would end up matching the energy levels of the universe and that everything would disappear, to which the unbelieving interviewer said: But will it really end? The professor, with a fine sense of humor, encouraged by the boredom, said: No, perhaps the trial remains. Well, that's what happens, that's all good except for the process. A leader of ERC has already said: We are not ready, we will be in twenty-five years. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not like the independence that is being undermined by the law, which creates deception for people and creates parallel realities. I am one of those who defend that in this democracy we all belong: independenceists who respect the law, old and new communists or lovers of novelties in the form of toys or video games. We all have to fit in and I don't like anything you've handled the Generalitat budget, fed the most rampant sectarianism on TV3, indoctrination in schools, and brought division and exclusion to society. That's not democratic. When they say what is happening to them, we will again wait for them in democracy, where we all belong. I end with a quote on the moral convention of politics. The good policy is to believe in Spain and we will continue to do so. This is reflected in all the General Budgets of the State we have made and we will continue to do so because the People's Parliamentary Group believes in Spain and, as is said before a battle, the success of this battle is guaranteed because we are going to leave our skin behind for Spain and the Spaniards. Congratulations, Minister, on these budgets. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u54	Thank you very much, Mr García Hernández. We move on to the debate in section 13, Justice. For the section presentation, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u55	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the fourth budgets that I have tabled in this House and, as on the previous three occasions, they are proposed for approval in terms of a significant increase. You know the figures of the project, which suggests that the total expenditure of the State on justice policy will rise in this budget 2018 to 1927 million euros, which means 3.1% more than in the previous budget. Most of this budget, 91%, is allocated to the Ministry of Justice and the remaining 9% is allocated to the autonomous bodies under the Ministry, the General Judicial Mutuality and the Centre for Legal Studies, and to the General Council of the Judiciary, which also has an increase in its appropriations of 3.3%. As far as the ministry's budget is concerned, a project of EUR 1754 million is proposed, which means an increase of 3.2% over the 2017 budget. The fact that the justice budget is increased for the fourth consecutive year and that it is a consolidated and sustained growth over time, as demonstrated by an accumulated increase of 20% since 2014, is the best certification of the government's firm and real commitment to inject more resources and take them where professionals and representatives across the sector are telling us that they are most needed. [[The lady]] It is clear that we are conditioned by patterns of public expenditure control that force us as a country and as a member of the European Union, and I am also fully aware of the many issues of concern to the sector. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u56	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u57	We are holding multiple meetings and many negotiation processes with the associations of judges and prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice and the unions of officials of the Administration of Justice. Yesterday the associations of judges and prosecutors told the Government but also the political parties, the chambers and the General Council of the Judiciary that it is necessary to promote reforms that meet their demands. There is no doubt that resources are needed, not only more but also better, and these budgets provide them, ladies and gentlemen. Justice is needed to think about people, and these budgets do. In the twenty-first century, in the century of globalization and digitization, technologically advanced justice is needed, because, as a public service it is, it must also incorporate these changes and these budgets are what they propose. These are basically the three axes that form the backbone of the Ministry of Justice's budget: more resources for more mediated justice, at the service of citizens and supported by new technologies in all areas of management. First, I told them that more and better resources are needed to facilitate these capacities to act on justice, and I refer to the figures because they are eloquent. We are proposing a budget of EUR 1383 million for the improvement of salaries and for the commitment to public employment, EUR 33 million more, 2.5% more in this Chapter 1 of staff expenditure, which will increase the salaries of all public servants, which will create 300 places for judges and prosecutors and which will allow a public job offer of 3759 places for the various bodies of officials of the Administration of Justice. Secondly, this budget aims to strengthen the commitment to social benefits and to the training of all professionals. We are talking about 114.6 million euros, 1.3% more than last year, to allocate 104.5 million euros to the General Judicial Mutuality, with an increase of 2.6%, and 10 million euros destined to the formation of the fiscal career of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice and of all officials through the Center for Legal Studies. We are also proposing more resources for infrastructure and judicial equipment; in particular 50% more, almost EUR 17 million more, up to EUR 50 million, for example, to allocate EUR 30 million to new judicial buildings in Badajoz, Albacete, Guadalajara, Ibiza, Segovia and Lorca, and the start of ten projects in so many other locations: in Talavera, Casas Ibáñez - Albacete -, in Torrijos - Toledo -, in Navalmoral de la Mata, in Vitigudino, in Lerma, in the Valladolid Campus of Justice, in Manacor, in Ciudadela or for the Institute of Legal Medicine in Toledo. All these actions have their reflection on the budget. In this project we also allocate 7 million euros to the rehabilitation and improvement of multiple judicial offices in Soria, Palencia, Ceuta, Trujillo, Salamanca, Toledo, and here also, in Madrid, in the Supreme Court, or in judicial buildings of Manzanares, Motilla del Palancar, Puertollano or Burgo de Osma. I assure you that all of them are very important; they may seem like minor works, but in every locality I have expressly wanted to mention is certainly a relevant action that improves the service to the citizen and facilities for the professionals. We want to continue to invest in the National Institute of Toxicology and in the institutes of legal medicine, allocating 6.2 million euros to a plan of modernization and renovation of technological equipment in the field of chemistry, drugs, forensics and biology, all of which are certainly auxiliary to justice and which help in a very important way in the research. As I said, more resources and better resources but, thirdly, as a qualitative strategic approach, more resources for justice at the service of citizens. I am talking about almost EUR 109 million dedicated to areas of special social sensitivity, such as combating gender-based violence, free legal aid and care for victims. First, the Ministry's budget incorporates in different items some 59 million, 14 more than last year, to combat gender-based violence and to cover all the lines of action of the State Pact that we have agreed in this House that have to do with the Ministry of Justice. For example, for courts of violence against women a total of €38 million, 5 more than the previous year, for comprehensive forensic assessment units, institutes of legal medicine and the National Institute of Toxicology €4 million more, or for specialized legal assistance in this area €4.2 million more, which will allow us to increase the scale of the shift of office of gender violence and increase the number of women assisted through this service. Ladies and gentlemen, almost EUR 49 million for free legal aid, no more than 33 % more, which will allow us to increase very significantly the bar of indemnification of the shift and also, although it is an instrumental aspect, shorten the times when lawyers and prosecutors receive these indemnities at the present time. Finally, EUR 1 100 000 to increase the appropriations of the victim care offices, which means a 17% increase in this area which will enable us to strengthen action in this regard. In this regard, I would also like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the funding of the Pluralismo and Convivencia Foundation. With this project, which I propose here, we want an increase of EUR 370,000 in the credits of this foundation, which, as you know, is dedicated to keeping alive the spirit of social coexistence, tolerance and respect for the religious fact. We also intend to maintain, logically, the contribution to the courts of peace, which, with discreet and simple work, do so much for this justice of proximity in peculiar and particular areas of our territories of the most rural area of all Spanish geography. Ladies and gentlemen, the third big block I want to highlight is the allocation of resources to continue the technological transformation of justice. This depends to a large extent on the agility and efficiency of the public service provided. We have been working for three years, three years in this Government and many years in previous governments, I am sure, not without difficulties. Cultural change around technology in justice is difficult and, therefore, is costing us a great deal of effort. But the truth is that today we have a widespread electronic communications system that is producing that today, for example, more than three hundred thousand communications will be made via Lexnet every hour; at this hour, between eleven and twelve in the morning, which is a peak hour, thirty thousand electronic communications will surely have been made through the Lexnet system. I therefore believe that we are taking steps in the right direction. Today, the 112 competent judicial parties of the Ministry have put in place the tools to ensure that the judicial process is fully electronic, as well as the 659 single-person bodies, the 41 sections of the 20 provincial hearings of the Ministry's territory and the 17 chambers of the five higher courts of justice. All of them have the facilities to process, sign, archive and notify using digital tools. That is why we want to continue in this direction, and that is why the budget has EUR 131 million that will be destined to complete the implementation of the digital file in the Supreme Court, as well as in the 39 prosecution offices in the territory of the Ministry of Justice. But we also work with professionals and legal corporations, because we not only work inside but also to serve professionals, lawyers, prosecutors, social graduates, notaries, registrars, creating new services to facilitate their communication with justice. The 131 million are also intended to improve the focus on users, so that they receive better attention when, as is true, incidents arise in the day-to-day justice; to create better tax and digital justice applications; to improve equipment in the rooms of view, for recordings and also for Wi-Fi connections in all of them; or to continue to advance on a project, in which we have worked intensively in this Parliament, such as the new digital civil register. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the digital justice bet is part of the thrust of this budget and should be the subject of its approval and support. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. I assure you that I am very aware of the needs of our justice and I am, fundamentally, because we share daily the diagnosis with the political groups, with the autonomous communities, with the associations, with the representatives of all the professionals who make them clear to us every day and identify them perfectly. Addressing these shortcomings requires, inter alia, resources and a good work plan for the allocation of these resources to all objectives. And this is what these budgets propose; budgets that are important for what they grow, why they grow and for what objectives they grow; accounts that, in my opinion, send a clear message, that this Government and this parliamentary group care about justice, that justice works, that it is better equipped, that it has sufficient resources to carry out more effectively a fundamental mission in a democracy and a rule of law, such as to comply with and enforce the law, and that the public service of justice is provided with the quality that citizens, the Spanish of the twenty-first century, require at this time. This budget calls for us to work together on it and on the legislative reforms which your ladies and gentlemen know and which we are working on. And all this, without doubt, the sum of both efforts, the budget and the legislative, can make us walk on the path of improving and strengthening our justice. I am aware that some groups have tabled amendments in which we are working to be able to accept them, in such qualitative aspects as, for example, to work for the identification of stolen babies, to improve credits for the modernisation of justice, or also some other associated with the improvement of the organization and salaries of professionals. I assure you that we share all these objectives and, therefore, we are studying these amendments in order to find compromises and, above all, to achieve a budget that equips us with the capabilities to do better all that we are convinced of is necessary, which is to have sufficient resources so that in this 2018 budget we can move forward with the reforms that our justice needs. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor for the defence of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you commented that these budgets send a very clear message. It seems that it has not been understood, because yesterday, as if it were a perfectly prepared coincidence, the associations of judges and prosecutors presented to you an amendment to their budgets, let's say in the form of a strike; a collective nothing given to the union mobilization, to understand us, felt the need to claim that the three or four axes that you have supported are indeed necessary, and some more on which I have heard few references. That is, more means are called for, we agree; modernisation is called for, we agree; and they also called for judicial independence. They complained that they feel that in the high courts they suffer from a lack of judicial independence, in their view, and that is what the professionals themselves say. We agree and, moreover, have been submitting a recurring amendment in all the general budgets of the State, which was precisely that it should be recognized that those professional legal operators, who operate in autonomous communities with their own language, had to know and be competent in this own language, and that this was not a mere merit, but a requirement. And this amendment we have been presenting in a traditional way, and it comes out in our top amendments when we present amendments to the Justice Section in this House. And it should be noted that when we tabled these amendments nothing made us think that the fact that we did not want to recognize that diversity and linguistic wealth in legal operators, being a requirement for us to know the language of the autonomous communities that are lucky enough to have it, was like a sort of embryo of the bad growth of democracy and the rule of law in Spain. Note that we did not think that this embryo was so clearly an exponent of this lack that we have of the consolidation of the rule of law in Spain. This constant refusal has been to renounce fairness and progressively go to re-centralization, homogenization and, moreover, increasingly in a more clearly Jacobin sense, which I understand does not help at all the consolidation of the rule of law. Today we are at a point where to claim to be able to speak in one's own language in the courts - because being understood by the judge is basic - it turns out that it has to coexist with the claim of the freedom of political prisoners, something we thought would never happen, and it coincides in time with the claim of respect for human rights, which has denounced the UN that have been violated in Spain. They are paradoxes of a society that has been growing democratic for more than 40 years. Judges and prosecutors, as I said, presented yesterday an amendment, in our view, to their budgets in the form of a strike. Aren't you worried that professionals say there's no judicial independence? As Minister of Justice, I would be very concerned, as a member of the Government of Spain I would be very concerned. And not only did we say that there is no independence of the Catalans, the Catalan independenceists, these so bloody and so bad that we are, not only does the European Union say that Spain is in line with judicial independence, the Spanish legal operators say. Moreover, this contrasts with the fact that there are very clear signs that there is a confusion of powers in the rule of law in Spain, a confusion that occurs day by day, which began a few months ago with a change in the legal nature of the Constitutional Court, perfectly changing its nature as an arbitrator to become an enforcer of its own judgments. Unheard of. At least in the constitutional configuration of the Constitutional Court in Spain, its regulatory law was reformed. We have then seen how an article 155 has been applied to bravery - let me say - by deceiving an entire government democratically elected to the ballot box by Catalan citizens. The Government of the Central State had decapitated the Government of Catalonia. In addition, he put in prison people who today remain without trial and without sentence for their political ideas, of course, because there is no crime in their actions. In addition, Pedro Sánchez himself, the secretary general of the Socialist Party, recognizes that the crime of rebellion must be changed in order to bring it into line with the twenty-first century, because it turns out that there is no evidence of rebellion in the current Penal Code. Therefore, a criminal misrepresentation is being made and it turns out that when we counterbalance what the Spanish Supreme Court claims, it does not resist the cotton proof of the European courts. Yesterday, the German court said that there was no rebellion, that there was no sedition and that they were looking at whether the issue of embezzlement had any kind of sustenance, in addition to the contradictory information sent by the Supreme Court. This is serious, Minister, because not only do we say this, Spanish justice cannot stand the proof of cotton when it moves to Europe. Moreover, today, it also turns out that the Government of Catalonia has had to propose three different presidents, because the four deputies representing the People's Party in Catalonia and the Government of Spain did not like the ones we presented - democratically elected, I repeat -. In addition, they have deprived of political rights two people who have them intact. How can one deprive oneself of the right of citizenship, which is to participate in elections, to choose and to be elected, without any kind of sentence authorizing it? Why couldn't Jordi Sánchez or Jordi Turull, today in prison, be presidents of the Generalitat? Because the government does not like it, in a clear interference of the Spanish legislature and the Spanish executive in the Parliament of Catalonia, and therefore also of the judiciary, which denied that they could travel to Catalonia. Minister, all this terrifies us and today, together with Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Turull, we have prisoners Josep Rull, Raúl Romeva, Vice-President Junqueras, the President of the Parliament, Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa and we have in exile other prisoners who are awaiting European justice, which, as I say, contrasts the Spanish model of justice and its treatment. [[The lady]] Therefore, we do not like their budgets because they do not comply with what they say and because they are budgets that do not ensure judicial independence. In conclusion, I would like to say to Mr García Hernández that the Spanish State speaks for itself, there is no need to speak for Spain, the State, when it comes out, speaks for itself. The Minister of Justice should try to ensure that judicial independence is one of the reporting criteria if they really want to have a rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u60	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is hard to understand that you - who is a jurist and who is also a minister of the Kingdom of Spain, of an important State of the European Union, a State which values itself to be an advanced democracy - are not retweeted when you find that according to the European Commission - year 2017 - the Spanish state is in third place by the tail in independence of the judicial systems, at the height of Bulgaria - with all due respect for Bulgaria - Croatia and Romania. In addition, the Council of Europe places Spain as the least respected State in the fight against the politicization of justice, out of the 21 States analysed are listed in box 21. Apart from the political differences that you and we have, I am convinced that you, as the democratic minister of a state in the European Union, are indignant about this classification. Moreover, I wonder if the situation was different, if the Spanish state appeared in this ranking in number 2, 3 or 4, not by the tail but at first, do you think we would be where we are? I think no, I think the system would have faced the conflict - you know that I mean the process in Catalonia and its articulation, that we do not know what its evolution towards the Spanish state will be - in another way and surely we would be in another scenario. Why do I say that? Because I am convinced that you will agree with me that today all European governments have bought - according to popular terminology - the arguments of the Spanish Government. The Catalan problem - which I think is a Spanish problem rather than a Catalan one - is an internal question for the Spaniards, they will fix it. It's true that we're on that stage. But look at what I think you've discovered. You were very sure that with this argument that it was socialised by all the governments of the European Union there was enough to be able to be calm, and it turns out that the European Union as a democratic building also has other defenses, those that we call passive defenses, and it turns out that one of these passive defenses are the judicial systems, judicial systems that are not in line with the rankings but leading by their quality all the rankings, and it turns out that the judicial systems that have the highest quality have been activated in the face of the actions of the Spanish judicial system and the political actions of the Spanish Government. What do you have now? You guys are a little catatonic. I know you guys have a lot of power, of course. A lot of power they have! The proof is that we even have Democrats in prison or exile. But it is so true that we have to be aware that you have a lot of power, as it is true that you are catatonic. Look, you are people who have travelled and worshipped, but you have discovered that the European judicial systems - Germany, Belgium, Great Britain - have such a different quality that you have even been told that they do not pass through here. From the intellectual point of view, I no longer say from the political point of view from the difference, I think you should also do a reflection exercise, because with this ranking that you have of the quality of the Spanish judicial system and the little political independence, you believe that you can conquer, as if you were conquering hidalgos, the democratic world and it turns out that the democratic world has told you no. I think this should lead us all to reflection, all of us. I hope that in the general policy debate, in the debate of the State of the Nation that we hope will be able to hold, which is a universal debate that will allow us to analyse and discuss in depth the political situation in Catalonia-Kingdom of Spain, we will have the opportunity to state the following: we are certainly in a phase of confrontation, it is true, unpleasant and hard - and I am convinced that you are not happy to see that there are people in prison, democratic people, elected officials; I am convinced of this - but from the phase of confrontation we are always going to the phase of confrontation with proposals, and this is the one that then gives rise to the phase of dialogue, perhaps of negotiation and of the need for intermediation one day to resolve the conflict in which we are plunged. So, understand that from humility, without any petulance, I ask you to look in the mirror and realize that with the democratic quality of the current Spanish judicial system and the democratic quality of your government I believe... [[A person throws out of the public gallery a few octaves]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u62	Excuse me, one second. I ask the services of the House to act since the Rules of Procedure of the House have not been respected. [[Rumors]] They have cast papers from the rostrum and have to withdraw them because, as you know, from the rostrum they must respect the democratic order of this plenary as set out in the Rules of Procedure. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u63	In short, I ask you not to reject this humble reflection. Secondly, with regard to budgets, you know that we have made a good number of amendments and I also understand that these budgets will not help to reverse the situation in which we are lacking economic resources in order to efficiently implement the Justice Administration for Citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u64	Thank you very much. Next, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u65	Good morning. Mr Minister, I think that to talk about the budgets this time we have to have a starting point and the starting point is, logically, how this legislature started through the attempt in this House to establish a national strategy of consensual justice, an attempt from which we left, after working and making proposals, because we understand that there was no will on the part of your Government and on the part of you, after your reprobation, to carry out this ambitious effort in a sector that carries with it an important inertia, an inertia, as we will see a little later, which makes people very tired of the fact that there are no positive proposals and that there are no changes - which have ceased to be expected - on the part of your Government. I say that it is interesting to have the starting point, because there is a date on which we asked you, which was November 29, 2017, when we discussed what our proposals on justice were; proposals that I cannot repeat here in their entirety because they were given for that debate and that are already in the Journal of Sessions of the House, as are also some of your words with which you closed that debate and which allow me to reproduce it. You said at the time: 'Your Honor, I think it is much better to devote ourselves to building, to working, to giving judges, prosecutors, lawyers from the Administration of Justice and officials, means to work better. And, as I said before, I will be delighted, when the 2018 budgets are finally processed in this House, to know your proposals here and in the Committee on Justice for that national strategy that will allow us - hopefully we will reach agreements - to work on all the lines that your Lordship has put forward. It has sounded good to me, then we will see when we put the lyrics to that music, but it seems to me that we have an opportunity to build, to speak well about justice and justice professionals to serve citizens and to have quality justice, which is ultimately what we want.' Those are his words, his words were open. You were trying to build a common score, direct that orchestra, which would, theoretically with the participation of everyone, allow you to put that lyrics, now that so many lyrics are put on some songs. We and we have tried, through our amendments, to make him a series of proposals, which are cash and sound, and to build. I regret to say that in this case you have not allowed not the letter, but not a phrase or a line. Our proposals were in line with the complements to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice; professional training, especially in transgender and gender; identification and location of the victims of the Civil War. In this regard, I am no longer able to find adjectives for the action of your Government, Minister, in the matter of historical memory and the appropriation in this budget, nor to qualify your action in the promotion and defence of memory and, ultimately, of human rights. We were also talking about the right of language choice, family and incapacity courts, violence courts, minors, prison surveillance, the staff of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, support for persons arrested abroad, a sufficient departure for the implementation of zero-paper, the judicial office. Of this, nothing; there's nothing. You have admitted a single transactional amendment that I take advantage of to collect and value in terms of the work of specific people in my group, on the issue of stolen babies which, as you have raised, is being negotiated right now, at the initiative of our group. It is 100 000 euros, and with this it is not that we do not make a score, it is that we make neither a phrase nor a rap line. Therefore, if my group has to make a brief analysis of the budget that you propose, it has to be necessarily negative in a certain sense. You do not tackle the workload of judges and prosecutors; you reduce staff training by 8.5% - in the case of the prosecutor's office by 17% - there is a total lack of objectives defined in the proposal and an absolute lack of objectives in public policies; you do not allocate enough money to organizational modernization, and you only increase items that we can clearly qualify as electoralists, such as rehabilitating judicial buildings or a party for health care - through private agreements, we fear; we will see what happens -, or free justice in the ministry territory, where not only departure is important, but much more management, and there we will already see what is going on. Minister, that is the letter you impose, but reality is also very important. Yesterday, seven associations, four judges and three prosecutors agreed for the first time to strike you against the deterioration of justice, and this is much more important than what we and we say in this rostrum because simply, Minister, you do not believe, you are tired and tired of an inertia that these budgets are not going to help improve. They and they call for a sufficient investment plan, investment effort, provision of adequate material methods, convening of the table provided for in the law of remuneration and urgent implementation of maximum workloads; that is, they do not believe it. And this is what you say you're trying to do in some budgets that, ultimately, we can't support because they're not believed by anyone, neither by professionals nor by us or by anyone, and it has to do with an inertia in justice that you're not going to help change while you're doing what you're doing, just playing the violin on the roof of a burning building. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u66	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Muñoz González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum on behalf of the Socialist Group to set out the position on Section 13 of the budget for the Ministry of Justice and I shall try to address three issues: a brief, in principle, to reprove the defence of our amendments, which was already made by my colleague, Mr Hernando, in the relevant Committee on Budgets, and two other issues, to discuss the situation, within the time limit for this intervention, of justice in general and to see whether the budget that is being proposed is sufficient - that would be the adjective - and to remedy at least this situation in which justice is found or not even enough for this possibility. I will therefore jointly address these two issues in order, as I say, to know whether justice is going to improve, at least it is not going to get worse, or it is going to continue along that decadence path on which the People's Party Government is located in recent years. For the Socialist Group, of course, justice with these budgets is not going to improve, justice is not going to advance or remedy any of its shortcomings. Mr Minister, have any of the previous speakers said this, how have we been able to arrive at a situation such as that experienced yesterday where an important part, about half of the members of the judicial and fiscal careers and a significant part of the members of the Supreme Court, were able to agree on a day that we can use the euphemism we want, but in essence it is a day of unemployment, of strike in relation to claims? A claim, as I say, supported by a large number of members of the judicial and fiscal career that should lead us to evaluate and examine how a power that is established in the Constitution, the judiciary, a power that administers justice on behalf of the people and, therefore, a power with an important responsibility in this regard, has been curtailed its ability to relate to the ministry and other institutions and has had to resort, no more or less, to vindicting their rights in a day like the one that was lived yesterday. I am not going into the debate as to whether one of the powers of the State can actually carry out such actions, nor would it enter into the debate as to whether the members of this House that we hold the Legislative Power can go out on the street to claim in relation to our situation, nor would it enter into that the members, you, of another power of the State, the Executive, could concentrate on the door of the Palace of La Moncloa. I am not talking about that debate, I am saying that this situation leads us to the thermometer we are in. The thermometer in which we find ourselves is a situation in which everything that has to do with the world of justice has left many of the members of that power no alternative to performing the actions that were carried out yesterday. Nor do I mean that our group, the Socialist Group, understands or shares all the demands that have been made, but we do understand that, even because of them, a part of them have a just cause in the petition that is made, but, as I say, not so many others. [[The Lord]] Our group has always argued that the so-called politicization of justice does not come from the body that elects members of the judiciary. That is not the case, because this is the body where the representatives of the citizens are. Being justice a power emanating from the people, perhaps this is the most referenced place for the representatives of the judiciary to be elected, with all the safeguards that throughout the various amendments of the Organic Law of the judiciary we have been making the various governments, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party. But, Minister, things are not right in the area of justice. Perhaps not all responsibility is attributable to his ministry, but it is certainly in his hands to resolve it and a fundamental instrument to do so is the budgets, but there are no measures in these budgets in this regard. You gave the figure of 1754 million for the area of justice. It is true that it is 3% more than in 2017, but it is as true that that amount represents less than the 1818 million of the last budget of the Socialist Party of 2010. We would propose that they at least negotiate or formulate some compromise on such important issues as the modernization of the administration of justice, which has very limited terms in the consideration of the draft budgets. We also believe that this budget does not take action in actions as important as the fair demands of public service justice workers operating in common territory who see their homonyms from autonomous communities with transferred competence in the Justice Administration as having more emoluments than their own. Theirs are savings policies, cutting policies that are useless and that are also affecting the public justice service itself. An example of this is the disastrous change that was made by eliminating substitutes and alternates, which has become a greater workload for the incumbents and has not solved a problem, but has created two where they did not exist. To give some example, you, on such an important issue as the implementation of the new regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, something that will come into force in two days, have a small budget of EUR 127 000, with the exponential work that is coming to the Data Protection Agency. You have talked about the new technologies, but the reality is that the Lexnet system is hung one day yes and another too. It has not even been able to be compatible with the prosecution - there are other systems that are not compatible - and the wink is that even you have been fined by the Data Protection Agency in relation to the deplorable operation that took place in 2017. Minister, Lexnet will be useful when professionals have everything in the court file on their desk computer. Minister, I conclude by referring to other issues, such as legislative paralysis. You are installed in the legislative paralysis. They used the mockery of the National Justice Strategy, that committee where their group did not have the capacity to relate or to agree with the other groups, but even more serious is that the little legislative activity you carry out is carried out through a system of subcontracting with your parliamentary group. They are not able to bring in bills, but rather make their parliamentary group submit proposals for legislation so as to avoid the processing of those reports that are as important for initiatives as those that are presented through their group's proposals for legislation. In recent times we have seen how judicial decisions are legitimately regarded by many citizens as unfair, but we also have to say, Minister, that people who, like you, exercise such high responsibility must be required to respect the division of powers. Within the judiciary, the prosecutor's office has a decisive importance in this political-constitutional regime, and the question would be: Are these budgets worth improving the training of our professionals, our judges, our judges and magistrates, especially in gender-based violence, in the fight against organized crime, in the fight against child violence? Are they worth giving them better and more material and human means? Is it also true that this activity is recognized by the person who performs this important function? They're not worth it. Therefore, our group will logically vote against section 13, Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u68	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, the Justice Section sees its budget increased by 3.2% above the average, reaching an allocation of more than EUR 1780 million, and it should be remembered that we were already coming from an increase of 7.6% last year, so since Citizens are negotiating budgets with the People's Party government, our Justice Administration has seen its resources increased by 10.8% accumulated in these two years. Here's the data. In the meantime, I have been sitting there for two days listening to the criticisms of the Socialist Party of Citizens for supporting these budgets; of the Socialist Party, the party that governs in Andalusia, that there asks us for responsibility, that there asks us for involvement, that there asks us for generosity to approve the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. Do you know how much the budgets of the Council of Justice and the Interior of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia have gone up since Citizens have been negotiating with the Socialist Party? A 10.6% accumulated in these two years - a little less, but practically the same thing that goes up here -. Therefore, do not give us lessons of coherence, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party; do not give us lessons of coherence, which we work and contribute to the progress of the budgets in Andalusia and Madrid. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, you do have a different speech, you are incoherent. Or doesn't Spain deserve the same stability they ask for for Andalusia? Or is it that Spain does not deserve to set in motion as they want Andalusia to set in motion? For us, it does; for the Socialist Party, apparently not, it prefers to leave all the initiative to the nationalists. However, the Socialist Party and the People's Party do find points of agreement in the area of justice: they do not hesitate to agree not to solve some of the most serious problems that justice has in our country; they agree not to depoliticize justice and not to end corruption, as the Greek report calls for year after year; they agree not to reform the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary; they agree not to reform the election of the State Attorney General - they prefer it to remain in the hands of the Government -; they agree even, according to recent news, to remove judges who are uncomfortable when they investigate corruption, while covering up each other's shames. [[Applauds]] Look, our Justice Administration has a lot of problems, yes, but I don't think your solution depends on the budgets of Section 13. The problems of our justice are the lack of political will of bipartisanism always to stop colonizing the judiciary, to stop blocking the reforms that justice needs, and they are also management problems. All the spokesmen have spoken about the strike of judges and prosecutors, but yesterday more happened: yesterday our lawyers concentrated at the door of the judicial offices in defense of justice, of the shift of office and of the dignity of their professions. Yesterday, our judges and prosecutors - 3,000 judges and 1,200 prosecutors - struck across Spain, demanding, inter alia, to strengthen judicial independence, the independence of the prosecutor's office and the modernization of justice. And for this you too are responsible, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, as the judges and prosecutors themselves recognise. I'm going to read you a tweet from the Francisco de Vitoria Association in which it directly blames the Socialist Parliamentary Group for not wanting to depoliticize justice. It seems you haven't heard that the strike was also against you. [[applause]] So do not now want to launder your responsibility with an amendment of EUR 2 million which seems to be being negotiated and which little or nothing is going to solve. What is surprising is that they voted against the citizens' amendment of 5 million euros, and now come with one of 2 million euros. I don't understand. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] Before yesterday the strike of judicial officials in Galicia ended, which lasted one hundred and five days, without the Government having been involved or mediated in the conflict. And the LAJs, the lawyers of the Justice Administration, are also mobilized, claiming more staff and better working conditions. With this desolating panorama, last Monday we were told by a spokesman for the People's Group that in Citizens we didn't sweat the shirt and that we only ran the last kilometer. Well, it's less bad for someone to run, because it seems the government hasn't even taken off. [[Applauds]] That is why we are calling on the Government to make a greater effort, Mr Catalá, to manage these budgets more effectively and efficiently, which we are going to support. We ask you to convene without delay those 300 places that we have agreed for judges and prosecutors, to invest correctly the amounts of that plan for the modernization of justice, which was in our investment agreement and which this year has 107 million euros, and that this modernization will be carried out with modern, accessible and useful material means and applications for our officials and professionals, but above all, Mr Catalá, that they be safe applications. And I would also like to refer, in order to welcome it, to that compromise amendment that we have signed at the initiative of Uniti Podemos to allocate new resources to the technological platform that will serve the victims of stolen babies. I shall end now, ladies and gentlemen, with a reflection in these days when so much has been said about flags and patriotism. To be patriotic is also to be brave to sit with those who think differently to negotiate the budgets that will govern the lives of all our fellow citizens, of the citizens who have voted for us to be here representing them. And being brave is doing it here, in Andalusia and where it needs to be. That flag, unfortunately, today only waves Citizens. I invite you all to join. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Minister, for the presentation of these budgets, which, despite these pre-drafted, pre-established speeches, are the budgets that will make the demands of justice come true. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways to deal with our parliamentary work, also the budget, and in particular today's: with old formulas, which no Spanish understands, or with the responsibility to work for the instruments that improve people's lives. The Group of the European People's Party is in favour of the second formula and we believe - I believe - that those who put themselves in the demand for a boost later with their opposition that we approve the budget opinion will once again fail so many, but also, and for my part, will block the improvement of the justice that citizens and professionals demand. On 16 June 2017, judicial associations formed proposals for the improvement of justice for a series of insistent demands from across the sector. Again and again in different ways they warned us that the political groups should not only, but that we had to agree to make them come true. Once again, judges and prosecutors made it very clear to us yesterday. Mrs Ciuro, in case it wasn't clear yet, we were told: None of the political groups can look elsewhere; they can't pass the blame on to the government. We each have our responsibility. They know it very well and remind us of it in their statement - I open quotes -: 'Some - the responsibilities - are clearly the responsibility of parliamentary groups, others of the Government and the rest of the General Council of the Judiciary'. I close quotes. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not give the yes to these budgets it is only right that we should try to make the amendments. I think about it a lot these days, and I am sure you have once thought about it: you are putting forward amendments to a budget that you are going to say is not in any case. Then for what? Little can be said of an amendment of refoulement when it is also presented to the section: that it is nothing more than the representation of blindness itself, that it does not value what is presented, let alone what would be lost if that amendment were adopted. If your vote on this amendment, in the section or in the budgets is no, you will be saying that no to justice budgets that go beyond the nominally - not de facto - most favourable - socialist governments. Let's see, Mr. Muñoz, I've already explained it and it's in the Journal of Sessions. You continue to make - I will be good - the mistake that Mr Hernando has already made. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u72	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u73	The numbers you use are not true. We have to compare homologous numbers. In absolute terms they are better and far superior to those of whom they have spoken so much. But, in case you don't believe me, you have Mr. Campo, who was then Secretary of State, and you have the 2010 Journal of Sessions. These 2018 justice budgets are EUR 1926.6 million, and thanks to the transactional agreement in the Commission with the Citizens Parliamentary Group, we added an additional EUR 5 million to meet the demands of the justice professionals. Therefore, if they say no, they will say no to more staff places, more than 3 000. They will say that no more stability in the service of the Administration of Justice. They will say that no more than 300 places of judges and prosecutors, to improve their professional conditions, to strengthen free justice, to intensify the fight against gender-based violence, the protection of minors and other vulnerable victims of crime. They will say no to the hardware and software systems essential for a public, free and accessible Civil Registry that citizens need, which was agreed by the Government with the staff of the Administration of Justice and which is needed for the work that our courts and tribunals must perform by speaking, ladies and gentlemen, the same language as the rest of the world. Our peculiarities in justice have to go away; you see how many examples we are seeing of the difficulties that give rise to peculiarities when we face a globalized world in the pursuit of crime. They will say no, as they have said no, to make effective those proposals that have been demanding all justice professionals in reforms of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and other procedural rules - the Criminal Prosecution Act, the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions - and to do so in the manner we are asked to do and that we were working in the subcommission. The opportunity to respond to requests for appropriate legislation was missed by a short-term view of rapid assault on the Government outside of general interests. Now also some say they do not want to move forward with agility at a second opportunity that we are given to meet the demands that only from this House, ladies and gentlemen - we - can execute. Law professionals know very well what the diabolical test is. Most of the proposals in the justice sector, which the opposition claims to be defending, will become diabolical because, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that they are defending them, they prevent the groups that we have wanted to respond at all times and the Government from fulfilling our respective share of responsibility. Yes, I have to say that I perceive that some today have received the message and find themselves more receptive. Thank you, thank you, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the citizens. Therefore, I would like to make a new appeal to the groups here to fulfil our duty of respect for the general interest exclusively, obviating who puts in luck the normative instrument to offer the tools that give agility to justice, which serve to modernize it, make it more accessible and strengthen its independence. Mr. Gómez Balsera, how do you do that independence speech to me again? We are anxiously waiting for them to adopt amendments which the judges and prosecutors are asking for yesterday and which they are asking for in their demands and which also calls for the Greek report. I repeat, we are waiting for you. We can approve it in a few days; we can attend to what they ask of us. The figures, ladies and gentlemen, support the Government's commitment, a four-year increase of 19.08 %; only in staff in these budgets more than 1,300 million, more than 114 million euros in social benefits, 3759 places for different bodies of the Administration of Justice, more than 300 places for judges and prosecutors, etc. The objectives are to modernise the administration of justice, professional conditions and strengthen our free justice model. This is the essential budgetary framework - I will end immediately, Madam President - so that the rest of the reforms can be approved and, more importantly, that they can be effective. Most of the actors are here, government and political groups. Therefore, you will be portrayed with us. We are actors so that the judiciary, the other actors, those who have to work, see that it is possible. I conclude by saying that it is important that for the second consecutive year we have arrived at a transaction in the matter of stolen babies with Podemos. It is a way to raise the profile of the work being done by the Government and the Ministry of Justice, to encourage that plan, and we will continue to work with the associations. And I appreciate the Socialist Party's extended hand this morning; we continue to work on that transaction and hope that we can get to a good place. All aids are welcome, everyone is looking at us. Do not look forward or back, in justice it does not serve the reproduction of political ways nightly in a mimetic way, today it only serves...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u74	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u75	...to adopt the correct solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, if any of you have low blood sugar and want to have something, there is a cafeteria at the bottom of the Chamber; I say this because it does not seem very normal to eat in the Chamber. [[Rumors]] We continue with the debate in section 18, Education, Culture and Sport. For the presentation of the section, the name of the Government is the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House for the presentation and defence of the budgets for Section 18, Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, for 2018. One more year and thanks to the recovery of the Spanish economy, achieved on the basis of prudent reforms in spending and ambitious in the objectives, I can present to you growth budgets compared to those of 2017. [[Rumors]] They're growing substantially.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u79	In consolidated figures, the ministry's overall budget for 2018 amounts to €3434.45 million, 3.42% more than in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, education, culture and sport are the priorities of this government because, like pensions, health or employment, they are at the heart of our social policy. And I ask you to look at this legislature with long lights. Since 2013, this ministry has increased its investment by 30%; in 2018 we will have recovered, and even surpassed in key items, the figures preceding the difficult economic situation that this government received as an inheritance. Today I present to you a budget based on the principles of rationality and efficiency in the management of public resources and which is committed to the efficiency and quality of the services provided, a budget where current expenditure will grow by 1.63% while investments will grow by 25%. The appearances of both the Secretaries of State and the Undersecretary have provided his ladies and gentlemen with complete budgetary programming on the programmes in section 18. I will therefore focus on pointing out the most relevant objectives for this ministry. In education, I would like to stress that both the Government and the parliamentary group that supports it have defended the need to reach an educational pact as a way to reach a consensual, sustainable and lasting education law that is alien to natural changes in government. At the moment, this social and political pact has not been possible. The horror of the Socialist Group in this subcommittee has made it impossible for it to continue. This Government committed itself to securing the financing of this educational pact once it has been achieved; it remains committed to it and I hope that other groups will rectify and return to this pact because - I insist - this is a pact that needs Spain, a pact that requires and requests the educational community and I believe it has only benefits. The academic year, ladies and gentlemen, began without conflict and will end without it, and I am glad, because it is a bad strategy to move parliamentary negotiation to street protest. But, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is responsible for their decisions. We are responsible, and we welcome this, for the fact that the more than eight million boys and girls in Spain and one and a half million college students have been able to start, continue and are going to end this year in complete peace. That's good news. The year 2018 will be the fifth consecutive year of increase in education budgets. Since the 1944 million euros of 2013 we will reach the 2,600 million euros in 2018 in Education, an increase, therefore, of 33.7%. With these 2,600 million euros the ministry reiterates its commitment to equal opportunities and the full development of each student within a framework of educational freedom. Yesterday I announced in the Senate the details of that royal scholarship decree for the 2018-2019 course, which gives priority, on the one hand, to everyone's access to education - nobody in Spain has to stop studying for economic reasons - and, on the other hand, to effort and excellence. This quality of our education system, recognized by all international organizations, would not be possible without the training and dedication of Spanish teachers, 745,574 teachers and 120,380 as teaching staff and researchers at universities. I want to pay tribute to all of them from this rostrum. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u80	Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and please remain silent. Go on, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u81	Thank you very much, because you deserve it. Another important figure achieved in recent times is the reduction in early school drop-out rates, a rate of 18.28% in 2017, already close to that target that has marked us Europe by 15%. If we keep this up, we're gonna make it. In addition, in the Pisa Spain Report, scores are higher than the OECD average in reading, mathematics and science. I would also like to point out that Spain has fewer backward students than the OECD average. And in fairness of the education system, which we care about very much, Spain is at the head of the OECD. In short, we are on the average of the European and OECD averages, and this is a collective success, with teachers - I insist - at the centre of the system, which we must all be proud of. These advances, in addition to requiring effort and involvement from the entire educational community, need funding, and the State Secretariat of Education is experiencing an increase of 7.6% over 2017. This budget revolves around students, families and teachers. The appropriations for scholarships and study grants will have a new historical record, 1575 million euros, 51.5 more than in 2017. For you to get an idea of what this means, this amount in scholarships and study grants accounts for 66.25 % of the consolidated budget of the Secretary of State for Education. Special importance for this ministry is the learning of foreign languages, endowed with 220 million euros, whose funding includes the European contribution to the Erasmus+ programme. The co-financing of this Erasmus programme is already EUR 30 million and is cited as an example by the European Commission. These budgets include €318 million, 20% more than in 2017, for actions to strengthen and improve educational quality. I would like to highlight within them the 40 million for policies that encourage the reduction of early school leaving, which is 25% more than last year; 46 million for the promotion of vocational training, including dual vocational training, with 23 million; and 10 million for teacher training, development and mobility. Teachers will also benefit in 2018 from 114 million for training and mobility actions. In addition, we will maintain economic support for mother and parent associations of student students and contributions to trade unions. At the university level, I would like to highlight the training and mobility actions of the faculty, with 93 million euros, and also the new Beatriz Galindo scholarships, with an amount of 10 million euros, which contribute to the generation, knowledge, attraction and retention of the research talent at the Spanish university, and which are also oriented towards the stability of teachers and researchers. Replenishment rate of teachers, 100 per cent of the casualties in the education sector. We have already established this in 2017, but in 2018 we propose an additional replacement rate for the stabilization of temporary employment until 2020 in the administration and service staff of teaching institutions and universities, with the aim of a temporary coverage until then less than 8%. An increase of 1,675 % for salaries of staff in universities and public centres shall also apply for 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention the reduction in the price of public universities. In 2017 we already approved the reduction of the lower limit of the public prices of official university degrees of non-enabled masters and now we are going to lower the fork of public prices of degrees, which in first registration will be able to increase from 15% to 0%. Therefore, reduction of tuition prices at university and increase of scholarships; fundamental principle of our policy: that no one in Spain should stop studying for economic reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, let me talk about culture. I have defined it on other occasions as the soul of the nation. Investment in culture is a civic necessity that strengthens the cohesion of our society and promotes the creative potential and our vibrant cultural industry and protects the historical heritage, which is a common wealth of all Spaniards. Compared to 2017, 2018 represents a significant increase of almost 5% - 4.92% - reaching €569.15 million and consolidating the upward trend of recent years. The Directorate-General for Fine Arts and Cultural Heritage is growing almost 11% compared to 2017. Let us not forget that 2018 is the European Year of Cultural Heritage. For this reason, the programme of conservation and restoration of cultural goods increases significantly, 5.9%, with important restoration interventions, such as the walls of the Albaicín, in Granada; the castles of Sagunto, Jarque and Monreal in Valencia, or the cathedrals of Jaén and Sigüenza, or the Pre-Romanian Asturian of San Miguel de Lillo, among many other examples. The item for the historical heritage is increased by 75 % to finance an integrated system for the management of assets protected from the Spanish historical heritage and its inventory.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u83	The budget for libraries increases by 16% to finance, among other activities, the production of the collective catalogue of the Spanish bibliographic heritage, to initiate the public library project of Barcelona or important performances in provincial historical archives or the Documentary Centre of Historical Memory. The Museums chapter grows almost 8%, with new credits to finance the more social Museums Programme. There are transfers to the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, to the National Art of Catalonia, to the Contemporary Art of Barcelona or to the Valencian Institute of Modern Art, as well as investments in other important museums, such as the Sorolla Museum of Madrid, the Museum of Anthropology, the Museum of Menorca, the Museum of Tarragona of Archaeology, the Palace of Los Águila, in Ávila, or the Archaeological Museum of Seville. Also, the state contribution to the Prado National Museum will grow almost 8% to meet, among other things, the celebration of its bicentennial, or the Reina Sofia National Art Centre Museum, with an increase of more than 4%.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u85	The Directorate-General for Cultural Industries and the Book is experiencing an increase of 5.13% over 2017. You know that we have the Plan for the Promotion of Reading, the celebration of great commemorations or patronage. On the same days we have received good news, the 4% increase in the edition of books in Spain; we have already published almost 90 000 titles, which is a very good figure. The protection of intellectual property rights receives a budget increase of more than 45% for the reinforcement of means and human resources already started in 2017. Zero tolerance for piracy, and here are the results: 60% less time in the processing of complaints, an increase in the number of procedures and a decrease in piracy, triple the number of decreases in visits to pirate pages. International cooperation and promotion of culture is growing by 7.27% for a year with important commemorations. I referred earlier to the European cultural heritage and I would also like to mention the fifth centenary of the first circumnavigation, the expedition of Magallanes-Elcano, or the eighth centenary of the creation of the first Spanish university - together with Palencia - which is the University of Salamanca. Public-private collaboration includes for 2018 an ambitious program with strong incentives to sponsorship and eleven events of exceptional public interest, among others, the year St.Jacobeo 2021, the centenary of the birth of Miguel Deliberes or the centenary of the Royal Site of Covadonga. The Institute of Cinematography and Audiovisual Arts will also fulfill its promise to liquidate in 2019 the obsolete system of financing the drag of cinema. The Government is therefore also increasing the Film Protection Fund. And another promise made by the government - as I have had occasion to say several times in this House - will be the 21 to 10 % reduction in the VAT applicable to cinema tickets, which we also want to see moved to the price paid by people who come to the cinemas. We want to see that impact. The National Institute of Performing Arts and Music will continue to support the Gran Teatro del Liceo, the Teatro Real, the Teatro de la Maestranza, the Palau de les Arts and multiple festivals, music circuits and theatre throughout Spain. The Platea Program, which allows the exhibition of quality performing arts in all autonomous communities, will also have a 5% increase in its budget. The National Library of Spain will reach an increase of 3.58%, both for physical improvement and for digital transformation. The National Library, which is a fundamental part of the Government's project 'Spanish, a global language', with its budget allocation will work in 2018 as the leading institution for panhispanism, leading projects through digital platforms the Hispanic Digital Library, the Digital Hemeroteca and the Ibero-American Digital Heritage Library. Let me quickly make some considerations on the budget of the Higher Sports Council, which is growing by 3.41% this year compared to 2017, reaching EUR 179.6 million. Spain has become a sports power with very relevant figures. 2017 closed with 4.55% more federal licenses than the previous year. Of that 4%, only 8% are female. There are 1.6% more sports clubs, 2.35 % more high-level sportsmen, of whom more than 6% are female sportsmen, and 21.6% more medals in international championships. Therefore, in order to maintain this trend, which is really very positive, we present budgets that express the Spanish Government's commitment to sport, that gives us an international presence and prestige as a nation, that improves our health and quality of life and that has an increasing economic relevance. Sport is part of inclusive and inclusive policies and cohesive citizens and territories. Sport policy therefore has a strong social component. This budget, I insist, has an increase of 3.41 over 2017. There is an ambitious sponsorship plan with seven new events of exceptional interest that raise to twenty-one those in force. I would like to cite as an example that of New Goals and Inclusive Sport, which, respectively, enhances the protection of the figure of the athlete after the end of his sports career and the inclusion in sports practice of people with different abilities. We will also continue with very important initiatives such as the Women's Universe Programme, the Basic Sport Support Plan, the Programme for the participation of Spanish athletes in the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2020 or the Spanish Competition Programme, which has raised more than 3.6 million euros of private sponsorship. The aid to sports federations, which is fundamental, will reach EUR 54 million, which is 4.4% more than in 2017. Budgets for women's sport will also grow and support for the Spanish Paralympic Committee will also grow after its last spectacular results. Sport in schools and universities is growing by 51%, aid to the Autonomous Communities for technology by 34% and aid to the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands and the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla by 144%. We also increased the costs associated with the high performance centers of Madrid, León, Sierra Nevada or Sant Cugat. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have fulfilled the commitment made also in this House by this government regarding the celebration of the 2018 Mediterranean Games in the city of Tarragona, which with its inauguration on 22 June will be a reality, a direct aid from the state for 15 million euros and an active sponsorship that has already raised 6 million euros in donations, in addition to a match to the European Erasmus+ Programme. In short, Madam President, this is the draft budget for 2018 in section 18, Education, Culture and Sport, which I bring today for debate and approval. It is a realistic but expansive, ambitious budget that covers a crucial aspect of this Government's social policies. We have said this many times, growth in Spain - at the head of growth in Europe and also of job creation - is inclusive growth. It is about everyone taking advantage of the benefits of this growth and we will certainly do so with this budget in areas as important and exciting as education, culture and sport. That is why I am asking for your vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón, first of all, spoke in defence of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nelson Mandela said that education was the most powerful weapon to change the world, and after reading the budgets, only one can come to two conclusions: that either they do not share that reflection - that, in principle, it seems that we could all share - or that if they share it, they misinterpret it, because they alter the importance of two words in Nelson Mandela's quote: they interpret the importance or pre-eminence of the weapon but not education. I'm telling you this for what I'm gonna tell you. You, who say that we are out of the crisis, are still presenting a budget that has 10% less money than that which the education budgets had before the crisis. He has no other explanation than to understand that, in turn, his Government, through the Ministry of Defence, buys 80 combat aircraft called Eurofighter and that with only half of those aircraft more money is reached than it is spent on education, culture and sport. You are aware of the many complaints raised by you in different educational centres about the precariousness of the facilities and yet you - and Minister Zoido did yesterday - prefer to continue investing in better and greater police endowments of people who did not characterize themselves in Catalonia on October 1 for taking care of the facilities, but rather on the contrary. You are aware of the poor situation or the precarious working conditions of the middle and university teachers and, however, you have done so and you celebrate and rejoice - to match the salaries of national police and civil guards with those of other autonomous police, leaving middle and university teachers for another time, for another time. That's why I was telling him about the gun and the education. But there is more, you talk about indoctrination - you did it with Basque education and you do it now with Catalan education - but at the same time you include programs to prestige the Armed Forces within the educational centers and so we can see them strolling through the centers of the Ribera of Navarre teaching their powerful arsenal of weapons. In short, probably because you have been looking for Spaniards for a long time above your possibilities, so much so that you find them as far as they do not exist or in so much, as in Euskal Herria or Catalonia, you have lost the north of what should be a social budget. That is probably why education and culture do not have the weight they should have and any intellectual debate about patriotism, which has been discussed so much in this House these two days, is what it puts in your DNI. Mine says it expires next year. I hope that that identity is true and will expire next year! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I always ask you and other ministers to adopt certain items. I give you an example: the Federación de Sociedades Musicales de la Comunidad Valenciana - which this year celebrates fifty years and which gathers 549 musical societies, 60% of the music societies in Spain, 40,000 musicians, 60,000 students and 4,200 teachers - wants to beat, precisely this Saturday, fourteen Guinness records, among them, the largest parade of music bands in the world, approximately 20,000 musicians. This federation receives 7 000 euros from these budgets, i.e. 12 euros per band of music, 17 cents per musician or 11 cents per student. We have tabled a modest amendment of EUR 50 000, which, of course, has not been approved by either the citizens or the People's Party, their party, but instead we see that the Foundation of the Toro de Lidia has EUR 35 000 - 7 000 the Federation of Music Societies of the Valencian Community and 35 000 the Foundation of the Toro de Lidia - 40 000, for example, for the promotion of tapas, which I think is perfect. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u91	Everything seems perfect to me, but, I insist, 40,000 musicians are going to have 17 cents of Euro grant. I don't think there's a criterion. For example, the foundations of political parties, such as the FAES, will have EUR 450 000. I always ask for criteria. What is the criterion for giving the Royal Theatre 10 million, the Liceu 8.5 million, the Maestranza 1 600 000 and the Palau de les Arts only 600 000 euros? The same goes for the IVAM, the Museum of Fine Arts or the Museum of Ceramics. These may be the blue or orange budgets - in that we are here every day, that if they are blue, that if they are oranges - but what these budgets are not is Valencian. Do not tell me that we did not negotiate because last year we negotiated with you, Minister, and we told you - you understood it - that there were no criteria for, for example, Valencian institutions not to have the same consideration as other institutions, which I do not object to and which I think is perfect. I insist, we all have to have the same thing. I ended up with a news message for my citizens' friends. You've created a staff department to make the lists. Be careful there, in Valencian territory, because they have lost him from Zaplanists, lost. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u93	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I will not start this speech by talking to you about how great we think your ministry is and how insufficient the resources you allocate and I will not start talking about the resources that this year are still insufficient. I will give you some notes on why we are presenting these amendments and why we think they are important. In the field of education, we have always defended it as a positive instrument for the inclusion of children, to achieve full equality and to be able to reverse dramatic situations occurring in the Spanish State and also in Catalonia. That is why we believe that the injection of EUR 1 billion would facilitate many things and would be the solution to many problems that we have. We know that you will listen deafly to this proposal because we do not share - of course - strategy, we do not share meaning or ideology on this issue. Let me tell you about culture, which is where we haven't evolved anything, minister. I would say that, in fact, we have involved, because last year we were here asking him for more money for Catalan institutions and this year we asked them for money and I take advantage of it to ask him to give us back the works of the Lleida Museum that were taken away. We have not been able to put this into effect as an amendment, but I am asking you now, because if you, in addition to money, bring us the works that were in the museum, we will be delighted. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u95	As this is not going to happen, I remind you of some of the things I told you last year, and it is that the Provincial Archives of Girona, to which you in the 2016 budget allocated 1.1 million euros to be able to execute that work, this year has allocated 120 000 euros. For a work that you did not execute in 2016 and that had budgeted more than 1 million euros, this year you will allocate 120 000 euros. Or, if you like, I'll tell you about the provincial library in Barcelona, which has been a pending project since 1998 and to which you have allocated 25 000 euros this year. 25 000 euros to do what? How are you going to carry out the work of a provincial library in Barcelona with 25 000 euros, minister? The other day I told you that you looked like a Rajoy government minister because you were the king of procrastination, but today I would tell you that you are the king of multi-annuality because you allocate 25 000 euros to a project that needs at least 20 million euros and tells us that next year or in three years you put the rest. I ask you to be rigorous, to be serious and to invest in the Catalan institutions, also in the cultural ones, the money we need because, if not, they are killing us little by little. You will tell me that this year's budgets are not those of 2011, and I will tell you that I already know, that we all know, but I would ask you that if they are equal or better for the cultural institutions of Madrid, at least, they are also equal or better for the Catalan institutions. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u96	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u97	President, Members and Members, Minister, I have always thought that in education we must introduce the future into our decisions, but we are in an education budget that looks to the past and, like last year, also the Lomce - a law that has aged quickly and badly - is present. It has been more than two years and, despite the fact that the supporters of repealing the Lomce are the majority, it continues to work, failing to comply with parliamentary agreements, with enormous frustration on the part of the educational community. It has not been repealed and the main shortcomings of the system are stronger the more time passes. How far away is the covenant that was to be and has remained in nothing! I will give you a small formula: the parliamentary, political pacts necessary to pass educational legislation can never be prior to the social pact and the territorial one. For education, prior agreements are needed for politicians to translate them into law. Josep Bargalló, the next Generalitat advisor, came as a proponent and explained the 2006 pact in Catalonia. We will forge ourselves again for such a pact in Catalonia, as it has not been possible in the State. Meanwhile, the Lomce is functioning and life is still the same; the obsession with uniformity, which is the greatest evil of education, remains the same, as uniformity is the worst in the educational system. As a result, the old obsession with the Catalan model of school always returns, which now comes, worse, to the point of judicializing the action of teachers, the action of teachers. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] It is also true that we have tabled in this section 246 amendments and you, who are a filmmaker, will know what I am going to say: They will be like tears in the rain. In conclusion, let me speak for a moment about sport, rather than the subordinate and minor role that is still envisaged in this budget. It's nothing new. Not only in good words can we overcome a very poor legacy of its former leaders. Good purposes well deserved better endowment, and it has not been so, and again much I fear that rhetoric will be imposed on needs, but we participate and we will participate in the previous works of the new sports law, you know; as in education, collaborative skeptics. In fact, I see the Minister more as a spokesman, even as a Minister of Culture, because as a Minister of Education I see him a little more absent. We will see if these next few years becomes more present because the situation will not be as placid as expected of the educational pact. The complex reality of education, the mobilization of the educational community will be imposed and the Lomce will disappear, despite this and the previous budget. The only thing that is missing is to build real alliances so that changes are possible and always open everyone's collaboration. This is a fact. Education is so important that even a spokesman, with fellow prisoners improperly, always has his hand stretched out.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Eritja Ciuro also spoke for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u99	Thank you, President. Very briefly, Minister. We cannot share a model of cultural policies behind which implies budgets with lists and concrete proposals. Please note that the set of amendments tabled by the Group of the Left responds to a different view than you put forward. For us its conception is very centralist, a centralist cultural model homogenizing, assimilationist, clientelar and, above all, classist. It's a model we don't share in any way. On the other hand, the cultural conception on which the cultural model of the Republican Left rests starts from principles for us that are much more firm. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u100	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u101	Culture must be understood as a mechanism of social transformation and dynamism. In Catalonia it works like this: culture as an element of social transformation and dynamism. We believe in the principle of democratisation of culture, and it is therefore necessary to ensure universal access to the whole world and to the same level. The recognition of the multicultural and, therefore, plurinational reality of the State is an aspect on which we focus over and over again. And a decentralized model of cultural policies. One cannot perceive the cultural richness of a territory if at least multiculturality or genuine cultural nuances are not recognized in a territory. For this reason, I would like to highlight a set of amendments that reflect the demands of the territories that make up the Catalan Countries: Principat, País Valencià y les Illes, or those that request a new budget allocation or increase the current one for cultural entities or equipment in support of their dynamic work at the regional or local level. We would like to highlight, for example, a package of amendments that include a credit transfer for three decanas associations in the defence of the Catalan language and culture in the Valencia Country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u102	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u103	The Association Cultural Action of the Valencia Country, the Association Escola Valenciana and especially the Association El Tempir d'Elx. In the same sense, and to conclude, we have also included in the equipment a credit transfer to the Diputación de Valencia for the rehabilitation and recovery of the building of the Teatro Escalante, Valencia. What does the Escalante Theatre Centre in Valencia mean? This centre is one of the best playful and educational projects specialized in family theatre in the Spanish State, which does not have its own building in condition, as its own is closed due to the need for urgent recovery works in its structure. This is the basis on which Esquerra Republicana wants to work, on the basis of the cultural fabric, which is really very powerful and very large, not only at state level, but in each territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u104	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u105	Thank you, President. Minister, Victor Hugo said that equality has a concrete way of being achieved, and that is education, to which we might add that inequality also has its own ways of being achieved, namely these education budgets. These accounts that you present to us consolidate the cuts of previous years, maintain the low educational investment - 3.8% of GDP compared to the 5.6 of Europe - and above all they do not allow to recover the 23,000 teachers who stayed on the street during the years of the crisis, nor to lower the teacher-alumni ratio, nor to address the school failure, which, by the way, returns. It is clear that their economic recovery is not reaching public services or something as fundamental as education. It is only necessary to compare the provision of the main educational programmes they had before the crisis. For example, teacher training, 60% less; early and primary education, 16% less; compensatory education, 90% less. And in global terms, investment in public schools is still 6.5 billion below what was invested in 2009. On the other hand, funding to the subsidized private school has not only recovered pre-crisis levels, but has increased by 120 million, and this is not a coincidence, it is an ideological option, the option for a class and dual school. [[Applauds]] In any case, and beyond your ideological preferences, do you know what the real problem is with your policy and these budgets? That this chronification of the cuts, that this low investment means above all less opportunities for those who need it most. He pointed out a few weeks ago Save the Children, when he denounced that school segregation has increased 13 points in the last decade and that 90% of vulnerable students are concentrated in an underfunded public network with no resources to cater for diversity. And this is the worst thing that can happen to an educational system that no longer serves to correct inequalities, that no longer serves as a social elevator and that becomes an instrument for the reproduction of existing inequalities. Mr Mendez de Vigo, I do not know if you are a boyfriend of death, what I do know is that you are a bad minister of education. [[Applauds]] You could have pushed the educational pact, you could have corrected Mr Wert's policy, you could have suppressed Royal Decree 14/2012, from scissors in education, and increased educational spending to 5% of GDP, but you haven't moved a finger in a whole year. If you had wanted to reach a pact in education, you would never have presented these budgets to us, and if you had the slightest will to make educational reforms, you would have accepted amendments from the United Confederal Group We can to universalize the phase from zero to three years and guarantee public places to families, to increase endowment in school dining rooms or to create a social fund for educational inclusion. And as far as sport is concerned, what do you want me to tell you? I don't think they're fooling anyone either. They fulminate, for example, the program for school sport, making it clear that sport serves you to take a picture. They reduce women's sport to two items for support programmes. Do you really think that you can support women's sport with 260 000 euros? Is that your bet for women sportsmen who won half the medals in our country in the last Olympic Games? [[Applauds]] And we are no longer talking about adapted and inclusive sport, whose support and promotion is virtually non-existent. In short, we are faced with bad budgets from a bad minister, a minister who has missed the opportunity to achieve an education pact, a minister who continues to mistreat public school and fund private school, which segregates by sex, and a minister who is ultimately more comfortable as a government spokesman than working for education and sport in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Pastor is speaking for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. The culture budget presented to us by the People's Party Government consolidates a pernicious logic: it does not take the culture out of a negative budget cycle and is far from reversing the cuts that began to apply a decade ago. Public spending on culture per capita in our country has followed a downward trend between 2007 and 2014; therefore, it does not seem logical to compare it only with that of the previous year. The cultural policies implemented have not worked to build a solid cultural model, with the strength to sustain itself. They have not opted for an autonomous sector, providing it with budgetary sufficiency in the autonomous communities. The cultural model presented to us by the People's Party is a dependent model. That is why it seems to us that, far from being realistic and ambitious, as Mr Méndez de Vigo tells us, for us it is a budget which, with the apparent increase over the previous year, is short. It is short because when we tried to cut back on culture, it lost a lot and suddenly, but at the time of the recovery it turns out that it earns very little and we will take a decade to recover the lost time and to put ourselves on the pre-crisis levels. The government comes to present to us what is for them the soul of the ministry, as we have heard the minister say: the budgets of the heritage and the consolidation of their commitment to culture and the lowering of cultural VAT. It seems to us that, even if the minister explains it very well, they are treacherous budgets - and if nothing remedys it will take them forward with the help of their partners, Citizens, and other short-term travel companions - because they consecrate the absence of a real cultural policy. These are budgets that are burdened by a fundamental imbalance that do not, above all, cater to the main actors of culture in our country, small and medium-sized enterprises, which have not yet emerged from the crisis and which do not have adequate support from this Government, which continues to favour those who have the most. These budgets deliberately confuse the scope of some measures. It is not true that it lowers VAT on culture, lowers VAT on cinema tickets; I know you know that, Minister, but the professional activity of culture... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u108	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u109	...continues taxing at 21%, exactly like recorded music. From the Confederal Group of the United People's Party, we have tabled a hundred amendments which we would like to ask you once again to review. In these amendments we propose, among other things, the application of reduced VAT to the whole cultural chain, the whole value chain of culture, because it is not understood that at different stages it has a different type of VAT; it lacks technical, political and economic meaning. Prior to the arrival of the PP to the Government, the entire value chain of an artistic activity was taxed at the same reduced rate. You have compared the budgets with those of 2017, but if we compare the budgets with a broader look, with those of 2012, they lose important items in strategic sectors: museums, libraries, book promotion, heritage conservation and restoration, archives, cultural industries. These budgets leave out very important sectors, such as screenwriters. What is cinema without the writers? They are budgets that have a very important lack of forecast: they abandon almost a hundred external workers - I end immediately, Madam President - of Inaem that at the moment when the Teatro de la Zarzuela is in full project of integration with the Teatro Real they cannot accede to the new agreement. Minister of Education. Culture and Sport, look a little more for culture. We invite you to review our amendments. It will find proposals to generate systems of support for culture, for the creation of new items that will contribute to the recovery of the unpopulated territories, highlighting the cultural heritage, that heritage that cannot be photographed at European level. It has to be consolidated, it has to be translated into our country. We also make proposals for improvement and attention to the Film Library. In conclusion, although I am left with many amendments, your ministry cannot continue to fatten the cultural budget lines and then stop spending on the cultural promotion budget more than half, almost half since 2012. Specifically, I am talking about 85 million that should have been devoted to the promotion of cultural industries. I do not want to end my speech without showing the support of the Confederal Group to the hundreds of people who, by demonstrating, using their right to freedom of expression, are currently awaiting judicial proceedings, some of whom may go to prison. This, in a democratic country, makes no sense and, even if it is not his own ministry, we invite him to participate because there are many cultural actors, many people who, demonstrating their freedom of expression in the field of culture, have seen their rights curtailed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u110	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Martínez Seijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we can even understand the passion with which you defended your section. It's your obligation, you couldn't expect anything else. Now, as always, the bottle can be half full or half empty, as you can see, and for us it is certainly half empty and about to be completely empty. In sport, which is where I'm going to start, economic recovery does not come, it is not found. The small budget increase does not even compensate by far for the cuts applied by the People's Party in recent years. The scarce real €97 million budgeted, after deducting the amount of quinielas, remains 40% lower than the budgeted seven years ago by the socialist government. And as in the rest of the section, they don't offer any exciting new projects, no strategic plans for sport. They just don't satisfy anyone. Not a specific game for the fight against sedentaryness, a project that is tried to lead from the council, but without economic accompaniment. Is there also insufficient funding for aid to high-performance and technological centres and for aid to federations? Nothing, a small increase. And I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of a non-legislative proposal that was unanimously adopted, which called for an increase in the quantities and multiannual nature of subsidies. Focusing on education, the bottle is becoming more and more empty, because, according to the forecasts committed and sent to Brussels, this budget and the new plan, which are on the same path last year, are the confirmation of their renunciation of the defense of Spanish education, and any expectation as well, because it is a renunciation of reaching an educational pact. As you will understand, 5% and 3.7% have nothing to do with it. You announced an offer of 5% for education and at the same time sent 3.7% to Brussels. You've played with education, you've played with the expectations of reaching an educational pact and you're responsible for that pact not being achieved, so that's good enough. [[Applauds]] And while, we continue with the Lomce, as you have been told before, punishing the thousands and thousands of boys and girls who are in our classrooms. The reality of this budget is that the 3% increase in education is lower than nominal GDP and similar to the growth of other sections. Therefore, no decisive and firm bet is made for education in Spain and the 2018 budget continues to have the same weight in the State's General Budgets as in the previous year. Entering into detail, there is nothing new; everything is continuous. The only new thing is that game of scholarships of excellence, which, by the way, generate multiple doubts. To allocate an additional EUR 50 million for scholarships is a ridiculous figure in the total amount of scholarships and does not solve the highest social demand for residence or maintenance, which has been drastically cut in recent years with the Wert model. This heading does not provide sufficient resources to enable more students to access higher education. The compensatory, which above is the one that has to work in Ceuta and Melilla, continues to come down, as we are used to, and neither do we see any action intended to solve the problems of both cities. Absolute poverty for teacher training, lower budget in secondary education and universities - by the way, the first university is that of Palencia, ours -, that is, there is simply a continuum. The small increase makes meridianly clear from the first moment that for you the university does not have a relevant role in the recovery of the country and even less in the future project of the whole of our society. I refer to the facts. The increase in university education is insufficient and is far from the amounts that would allow us to talk about an effective recovery of educational expenditure, severely damaged by its cuts since 2012. Hence, the sign of our amendments in the area of universities, amendments animated by the same spirit of fairness as we have pointed out to them. With them we try to correct some of the damage caused by their policies since they have been in the Government. By way of example, I will point out some of the objectives that we pursue, such as restoring the academic requirements prior to the 2012 amendment in order to facilitate the access of university students to scholarships or to modify the tenth additional provision in order to make possible a reduction in university enrolment in view of the increase they have suffered in autonomous communities such as Catalonia, Madrid, Castile and León and others. We will not forget the scandal of those affected by the 2008 income loans, because it is not normal for them to be withdrawn 18 000 euros without notice of their bank accounts. We propose a more than reasonable solution, which is that these young people have a minimum income of EUR 22 000, because this is a new attack on young people. Therefore, the balance sheet of this budget is the balance sheet of the educational policy of his ministry, the inaction and the lack of leadership for promoting an educational policy that goes along the path of improvement, investment and modernization. The Socialist Parliamentary Group's amendments respond to specific needs diagnosed and requested by the autonomous communities and the educational community to respond to what Spanish education needs. In order to correct this insufficient and inadequate budget, we have made an additional effort, increasing the budget for alternative income and expenditure by almost 1 billion in the education section. It is necessary to make a budgetary effort to place education as the most central policy in Spain, as the best investment in the future. That is why we have some notable programmes, such as the increase in the number of scholarships to benefit 300 000 students, the first free university enrolment to benefit 350 000 pupils, EUR 474 million to create 106 000 new places for children's education from zero to three years, the promotion of more than 41 300 new places for vocational training in more dynamic and job-creating sectors, a plan against dropping out of school that would affect more than 235 000 pupils who are outside the education system without any kind of qualification and a fund to support rural school, because rural school in this country needs to be saved, Minister. We also call for funding for the development of the coexistence plan that they have both announced but without any funding. In short, a whole revolution in its educational policy, marking and setting priorities and demonstrating that when education is a priority, as it is for us, income is planned to be allocated to education and implemented. Take note, Minister. If you want a pact, you know where to start. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u112	Mr Torres Mora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u113	Thank you, Madam President. I will take this minute to make a reminder, a protest and a proposal. The reminder is that if we defend differently the amendments of culture and education it is because the socialists continue to think that Spanish culture needs a ministry of differentiated culture. [[Applauds]] The protest is because, after all these years, in 2018 the cultural budgets remain worse than the Socialists of 2011 and even you are not their best version, which were their cultural budgets of 2012. The proposal is that they support our amendment to provide €100 million in a cultural bonus that expands the public and mobilizes the cultural industry. I'll add a final tail. Minister, you're right when you're lowering your movie tax. As your founder used to say and I used to tell you, you're right when you rectify. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u114	Mrs Martín Llaguno spoke on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not give the floor to the speaker until there is no silence. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u115	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to start by telling Mr Baldoví that instead of being so obsessed with Citizens, he is starting to worry a little more about his own and those who seem to have formed into a band and who are going to be called to the Commission of Inquiry that we have asked for the alleged illegal financing. [[Applauds]] Having said that, it is up to me to defend the education amendments and I will share time with my cultural colleague, so I will be very brief and I will go to the point of talking about two amendments that we are particularly proud of. Look, the claim to the rights of students with specific educational support needs has been a central axis of Citizens since we arrived at Congress. We have introduced GNP, we have brought it to the Commission, we have brought it to plenary, and I am particularly pleased to say that in Amendment 3304, which we have negotiated with the PP, we have made it possible for these boys and girls to be included in 2019 in order to be able to access the scholarships from which they had been eliminated. I'll explain what happened. When LOE specifies pupils with educational support needs, it relates to five types of pupils; pupils with special educational needs; pupils with late schooling; pupils with hyperactivity disorders; pupils with learning difficulties; and pupils with high intellectual abilities. When the LOE is transposed to Lomce, three types of students are curiously forgotten and three types of children who were unable to access the scholarships are excluded. Well, after the demand of the families, the collectives... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u117	... we have achieved in a transactional, which I hope will be supported by all the groups because we could not understand anything else, that these children will finally be able to access the scholarships. I want to congratulate all the parents and relatives who have been fighting for this and who brought here a petition for signatures. The second amendment concerns a central axis for citizens, which is the fight against school failure and early school drop-out. We already last year negotiated with the government party to include 30 million euros for the Plan Prefe, which in these budgets had increased by 10 million more. Well, we have tabled an amendment that if the government party manages well and manages through the European Social Fund to double the amount, it will make €50 million this year for educational reinforcement plans for children in all the autonomous communities through an inter-territorial cooperation plan. [[Applauds]] I want to conclude by saying that unlike other political groups that have not even mentioned education, for Citizens - and we have shown - education is a fundamental issue, it is a priority, and we would really have liked the Socialist Party, beyond the speeches, to have sat with us, to have fought with us in order to achieve an educational improvement. I would also like to remind you - and I take this opportunity now that you are taking so well with the People's Party and that a Sánchez and Rajoy pine tree is leaving in this constitutionalist desire - that if we had been loaned five Members or five of their Members had abstained, we would have been able to achieve much more without having to pay the bills of some nationalisms. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u118	For the same group, Mr Alvarez Palleiro has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you, Madam President. When this legislature began almost two years ago, the demand most requested by the world of culture was the drop in VAT. That was the great dream, the great longing of the people of culture. Two budgets later, we will be able to tell the world of culture that this situation, that unjust and very painful situation that involved raising 13 points the VAT of culture at the heart of the biggest and most dramatic economic crisis that we have experienced in the last forty years and that so much damage and so much loss has caused, will be reversed thanks to the efforts of Citizens and to the commitment of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I want to thank the citizens' economic team for their work, their hard work, their commitment to take this step forward. Despite the difficulty, despite the resistance of the People's Party and I do not know if I should say that Mr Montoro's refusal, because you have had, Mr Montoro - and I do not find anything if I say so - a permanent disagreement with culture, I hope that this will be resolved, despite the absence of the PSOE and the absence of Podemos, in spite of all this, this request that the world of culture demanded today will be met. During this plenary session I have seen spokespersons of the People's Party announce with joy, even with enthusiasm - some just missed doing it surrounded by mariachis - that drop in cultural VAT. I don't know who told them the film of those negotiations, but the plot wasn't what they told them. Last year, our parliamentary group wanted to lower VAT on both live and film shows, and we met the opposition of the People's Party, which did not want to address that claim in any way and therefore we had to negotiate. Negotiating, gentlemen of the PSOE, gentlemen of Podemos, is what is done between two or more people who have different criteria to try to improve things. They weren't in those negotiations and they didn't get anything. But the world of culture knows who went up the VAT... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u119	Quiet, please. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO:... the world of culture knows who has been irrelevant in reversing this situation and the world of culture knows with whom this VAT reduction has occurred, with Citizens. [[Applauds]] When you negotiate, pull and loosen, give and grant, and last year we had to give in, given the refusal of the People's Party, not to include in that fall in VAT film tickets, but in these new budgets, with this disposition of my party and with that assistance of the People's Party, we have managed to make VAT as in the rest of Europe, to be on an average of 10% and to have that shock we suffered in 2012 rewarded. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have negotiated an amendment for those foreign audiovisual productions which come to shoot in Spain and which benefit from the tax advantages that our country provides them. We will oblige these productions to indicate in their credit documents the bodies that collaborate in this shooting, as well as the obligation to assign to the localities where these shootings are made the use of frames sufficient for their tourist promotion. We will continue to work and achieve concrete, accounting, tangible things, such as having reversed the so-called cultural VAT despite the resistance of the PP and the absence of Podemos and the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u120	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are discussing one of the most important sections of the General Budgets of the State; indeed, the significant increase in the entire budget of the Ministry that the Minister has pointed out, in a clear upward trend consolidated in the last five years... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u122	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u123	... and where specifically investment in education grows above all spending policies, shows that, despite what we have had to hear in this House from some of your ladies and gentlemen, for this parliamentary group, for the Government, for the People's Party, education remains one of the fundamental pillars on which to build the economic, social and cultural growth of our country. Culture is a vertebrating element par excellence, and only from access to it on an equal footing will we be able not only to guarantee greater social cohesion, but also to enhance the talent, creative capacity and historical and artistic wealth that our country is traversing from all points of its geography. That is why, and beyond the reduction in the VAT tax rate applied to cinema tickets from 21 % to 10 %, which, in our view, facilitates better access to culture, by the way, without the need to have an older brother, Mr Alvarez, but through the commitment of the People's Party, and the increase in endowments to one of our major cultural heritages, such as the National Museum of El Prado, what shows this cultural budget is that our country has an artistic and cultural heritage that this Government is willing to spread and defend. Hence also the tax benefits applied to events as different as the 50th Edition of the International Jazz Festival of Barcelona, the Holy Year Xacobeo or the 8th Centenary of the Cathedral of Burgos. Because culture, ladies and gentlemen, neither has nor creates borders. Culture and access to it is everyone's heritage. This budget, moreover, shows that sport, which has a budget allocation similar to what the budget of an Olympic year would have, with the significant increase in resources that this represents, remains a determined commitment of this government within the framework of resources destined for greater presence and better positioning of Spain through our clubs and sportsmen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u124	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u125	... improving the health and quality of life of citizens through sport and, of course, ensuring inclusion in this area. Because an inclusive society will always, ladies and gentlemen, be a fairer society. With regard specifically to the area of education, I must tell you that we would have liked greater rigour on the part of some of your ladies and gentlemen and, why not say so, also greater ambition in your budget. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because your position vis-à-vis these budgets is merely a finding of your failure. Yes, of their failure, of the failure of those who have been unable to make commitments, of the failure of immobilism and of the failure of the nightly rhetoric clinging to the past unable to build a future. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u126	Mrs. Moneo, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, since the word silence does not understand it, I will use the word respect and I hope you will understand it. Go on, Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u127	Thank you, President. This budget would have been the best opportunity to lay the foundations of the pact on which so much work and so much hope has placed the vast majority of Spanish society. But unfortunately, only the Government and those groups that have remained, which we have remained, until the last day, have fulfilled. And we have remained despite the fact that some of your colleagues in the groups in this House have used the Rules of Procedure of this House to prevent us from reaching an agreement. That is the truth, and I must tell you that it is an absolute lack of responsibility, because this budget lays the foundations for a project called to be built among all, which is what we wanted. This budget marks the line of growth towards 5% of GDP, which some of your ladies and gentlemen used as an alibi to put an end to a scenario whose argument was previously written. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the education budget includes the additional €76 million, which was the amount to be provided to the Government within the 5% funding agreement framework. Therefore, their refusal to support these budgets not only represents their refusal to reach any agreement, but their most robust refusal not to achieve rigorous, efficient, transparent and sustainable funding over time. [[Applauds]] Believe me if I told you that I would have liked to keep this debate in other words, but your attitude only shows that you, specifically you, Socialist Party gentlemen, have done the usual thing, give the scare and trust everything to expenditure, not investment. If they really believed their role as the main party of the opposition these budgets would have collected their educational project and, unfortunately, do not. Its amendments simply increase the allocation of items already budgeted, without even respecting the minimum rules of budgetary technique. Its amendments are but a nostalgic song to the 2011 budgets, by the way, budgets that included a cut in university education of more than 23% and an allocation in scholarships of 282 million less than those provided for in the current budget; all this accompanied by an early drop out of education of more than 26%. [[applause]] Do you really think it's credible to go back to this stage? Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group and the party it represents has tried to make this debate a rigorous debate capable of transferring all citizens that education is of extraordinary importance in all government policies. Firstly, by consolidating the principle of equal opportunities. Hence the scholarship policy, the largest budget item that has ever covered this budget, hence the reform of the decree for access to a scholarship, lowering the threshold of academic demand precisely to strengthen those students who are in economic difficulties and without renouncing something as important as excellence; equity, equality of opportunity, excellence and the return of talent. That's why the Beatriz Galindo scholarships for the return of our researchers and that's why the increase in vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, you are concerned about the teaching staff and if so you have a golden opportunity - although you have obviously not started very well - to support the system of selection, training and professional career so that teachers, teachers, can have personal, professional, economic and social recognition according to their enormous responsibility. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a missed opportunity, and not for the government either for this group or of course for the whole education system, which is moving forward and doing so in an unstoppable way. This is a missed opportunity for you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. As far as education is concerned, they have lost the opportunity to be a state party and to take on the role for which citizens have voted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote. We're gonna take a break from about five minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u129	We shall then proceed to the votes of the sections discussed at yesterday's and today's sitting. We shall therefore vote until section 34 inclusive. We begin with Section 01, House of His Majesty the King. Firstly, amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u130	It's rejected. Amendment 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u131	It's rejected. Let us now vote on the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment 4217. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u132	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the text of the opinion in Section 01, House of His Majesty the King. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 258 against 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u133	It was adopted. We now vote on section 02, General Courts. Amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendment 4218. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 85 against, 259 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u134	It's rejected. Amendment 4334. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 169 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u135	It's rejected. We shall vote on the text of the opinion in section 02, General Courts. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 260 against, 79 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u136	It was adopted. We move on to Section 03, Court of Auditors. We are voting first of all on the amendments tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. Amendment 4219. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 259 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u137	It's rejected. We shall vote on the text of the opinion in Section 03, Court of Auditors. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 259 against, 87 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u138	It was adopted. [[Rumors]] I am reminded of the services of the House which were missing to vote on the rest of the amendments to section 03. I ask your ladies and gentlemen to remain silent because I have to attend to the vote, to count and to read. Thank you very much. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u139	They're rejected. Section 04, Constitutional Court. Firstly, Amendment No 5 of the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u140	It's rejected. We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the text of the opinion in Section 04, Constitutional Court. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 258 against 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u141	It was adopted. Let us now turn to section 05, Council of State. As we have no amendments, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote directly on the text of the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 259 against 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u142	It was adopted. We turn next to section 08, General Council of the Judiciary. Firstly, the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendment 6001. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 99 against, 175 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u143	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 102 against, 176 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u144	They're rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 87 against 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u145	It's rejected. Amendment 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 260 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u146	It's rejected. Amendment 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 103 against, 176 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u147	It's rejected. We now vote on Amendment 4222 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u148	It's rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 08, General Council of the Judiciary. We voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 262 against, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u149	It was adopted. We move on to section 09, Contributions to administrative mutualism. As we have no amendments, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed to vote directly on the text of the section 09 opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 259 against 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u150	It was adopted. We are voting now, ladies and gentlemen, on section 10, Centralised recruitment. As we have no amendments, we will vote directly on the text of the opinion in Section 10, Centralised Procurement. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 260 against 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u151	It was adopted. We now turn to section 32, Other financial relations with territorial authorities. We are voting, first of all, on the amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. Amendment 1261. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 103 against, 176 abstentions, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u152	It's rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, Amendment 6740. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 18, 177 against, 152 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u153	It's rejected. Amendment 6741. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 101 against, 176 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u154	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u155	They're rejected. Let us now vote on the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment 5695. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u156	It's rejected. We are now voting on the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendments Nos 2945 and 2946. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 175 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u157	They're rejected. Amendments 2947, 2949 and 2950. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 152 abstentions, 177 abstentions, 18 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u158	They're rejected. Amendment 2948. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 175 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u159	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u160	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 32, Other financial relations with territorial authorities. We voted on the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 177 against 169.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u161	It was adopted. We then turn to Section 33, Interterritorial Compensation Funds, which, as we have no amendments, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote directly on the text of the opinion in Section 33, Interterritorial Compensation Funds. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 177 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u162	It was adopted. We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to Section 35, Contingency Fund, which, having no amendments, we directly vote on the text of the opinion in Section 35, Contingency Fund. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u163	It was adopted. We now go on to vote for the administrative, corporate and foundational public sector entities. Annex of real investments. Firstly, we are going to vote on the amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left, Amendment 466. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 177 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u164	It's rejected. Let us now vote on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendment No 5427. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 68 against, 185 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u165	It's rejected. Amendments 5463 and 5476. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 80 against, 259 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u166	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u167	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendments Nos 1952 and 1988. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 82 against, 177 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u168	They're rejected. Amendments 1956 to 1959, 1961 to 1966, 1969 to 1971, 2002 and 2477. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 162 against, 175 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u169	They're rejected. Amendments 1960, 1967 and 1968. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 93 against, 177 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u170	They're rejected. Amendment 2003. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 82 against, 245 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u171	It's rejected. Amendment 2782. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 83 against, 245 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u172	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u173	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the text of the opinion of the administrative, business and foundational public sector entities, which is an annex to real investment. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 176 against, 170 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u174	It was adopted. We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to section 25, Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Firstly, we are going to vote on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. The transactional amendment 44 presented to amendment 5806. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 259 against, 8 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u175	It's approved. Transactional amendment 45 to amendment 5809. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 327 against, 8 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u176	It's approved. We voted for the amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. Amendment 1259. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u177	It's rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. BLOCK VOTING OF THEIR AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 170 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u178	They're rejected. We voted on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 177 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u179	It's rejected. Amendment 940. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 18 against, 258 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u180	It's rejected. Amendment 942. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 170 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u181	It's rejected. Amendments 943 and 1017. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 176 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u182	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 87 against, 258 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u183	They're rejected. We voted on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment 5485. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u184	It's rejected. Amendment 5486. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 162 against, 176 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u185	It's rejected. We voted on the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendment No 2800. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u186	It's rejected. Amendments 2801, 2803 and 2807. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 175 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u187	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u188	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 25, Presidency and for territorial administrations. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u189	It was adopted. We move on to Section 19, Employment and Social Security. Firstly, we are going to vote on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. Transactional amendment 46 to amendment 5759. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 328 against, 8 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u190	It's approved. Transactional amendment 47 to amendment 5773. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 328 against, 8 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u191	It's approved. We shall then vote on the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendments 6477 to 6479. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u192	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u193	They're rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Firstly, Amendment 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u194	It's rejected. Amendment 719. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u195	It's rejected. Amendment 720. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 176 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u196	It's rejected. Amendment 722. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 169 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u197	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u198	They're rejected. Amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, amendment 4936. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 164 against, 175 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u199	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 161 against, 176 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u200	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendment 2338. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u201	It's rejected. Amendments 2339, 2340, 2342, 2344-2346, 2348, 2349, 2357, 2360, 2362 and 2365. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u202	They're rejected. Amendment 2343. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 93 against, 242 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u203	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 169 against, 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u204	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 19, Employment and Social Security. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u205	It was adopted. We now turn to section 60, Social Security. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen, Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, Amendment 6742. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u206	It's rejected. Amendment 6744. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 168 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u207	It's rejected. Amendment 6746. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour 168 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u208	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 101 against, 245 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u209	They're rejected. Amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Amendment 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u210	It's rejected. We voted for the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment 5701. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u211	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment 2952. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u212	It's rejected. We are now voting on the rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 171 against, 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u213	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 60, Social Security. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 177 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u214	It was adopted. We now proceed to vote on section 16, Interior. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. Firstly, we voted on Amendments Nos 1056, 1059, 1060 and 1062. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 176 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u215	They're rejected. Amendment 1057. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u216	It's rejected. Amendment 1061. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 169 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u217	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 166 against, 179 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u218	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendments 6034 and 6035. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 175 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u219	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 170 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u220	They're rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Amendment 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 172 against 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u221	It's rejected. Amendments 69, 75 and 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u222	They're rejected. Amendment 71. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 18 against, 260 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u223	It's rejected. Amendment 79. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 168 against 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u224	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u225	They're rejected. We will vote on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, we voted on Amendment 4285. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 175 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u226	It's rejected. Amendments 4293, 4297, 4324, 4325 and 4330. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 78 against, 260 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u227	They're rejected. Amendments 4295, 4296, 4298-4300 and 4302. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 80 against, 176 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u228	They're rejected. Amendments 4303 to 4305, 4308, 4315 to 4323, 4326, 4327 and 4331. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u229	They're rejected. Amendment 4328. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 79 against, 178 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u230	It's rejected. Amendment 4329. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 169 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u231	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 170 against, 175 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u232	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment 1387. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u233	It's rejected. Amendments 1445, 1449 and 1451. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 92 against, 245 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u234	They're rejected. Amendments 1450 and 1452. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 92 against, 246 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u235	They're rejected. Amendment 1455. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 158 against, 178 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u236	It's rejected. Amendments 1458 to 1462. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 169 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u237	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 159 against, 178 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u238	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 16, Internal Affairs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u239	It was adopted. We move to section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality. Firstly, amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. Transactional amendment 49 to amendment 5758. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 328 against, 8 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u240	It's approved. Transactional amendment 50 to amendment 5734. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 327 against, 9 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u241	It's approved. Amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendments 6667 to 6675, 6680, 6681 and 6693. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u242	They're rejected. Amendments 6679, 6688, 6689 and 6692. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 89 against, 176 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u243	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u244	They're rejected. We move on to the amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left. Firstly, Amendment 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u245	It's rejected. Amendments 944 and 947. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 89 against, 176 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u246	They're rejected. Amendments 945, 946, 948, 950 and 951. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u247	They're rejected. Amendments 952, 954, 955, 958 and 959. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 177 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u248	Rejected Amendment 953. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 260 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u249	It's rejected. Amendments 960 and 961. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 176 abstentions, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u250	They're rejected. Amendment 962. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 102 against, 175 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u251	It's rejected. Amendments 963, 966, 967, 969, 970, 975-978 and 984-987. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 176 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u252	They're rejected. Amendment 964. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 245 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u253	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u254	They're rejected. Amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment 5487. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 163 against, 176 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u255	It's rejected. We are now voting on the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendment No 2808. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 177 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u256	It's rejected. Amendments 2809, 2810, 2813 to 2815, 2820, 2821, 2823, 2825, 2826, 2830 to 2835, 2846 to 2848, 2851, 2861, 2863 and 2864. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u257	They're rejected. Amendments 2811, 2812 and 2827. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u258	They're rejected. Amendment 2852. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 167 against, 177 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u259	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u260	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u261	The opinion of section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality, was adopted. We now turn to section 12, Foreign and Cooperation Affairs. Firstly, the amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. Transactional amendment 48 to amendment 5777. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 245 against 8 abstentions 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u262	It's approved. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Amendment 6004. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 17 against, 175 abstentions, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u263	It's rejected. Amendments 6006 to 6010, 6014 and 6017. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 102 against, 175 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u264	They're rejected. Amendment 6012. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 175 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u265	It's rejected. Amendment 6013. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u266	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 100 against, 176 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u267	They're rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u268	It's rejected. Amendment 25. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u269	It's rejected. Amendments 29 and 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 88 against, 175 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u270	They're rejected. Amendment 48. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 19 against, 327 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u271	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 88 against, 258.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u272	They're rejected. Let us now vote on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendment 4223. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u273	It's rejected. Amendment 4226. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 78 against, 176 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u274	It's rejected. Amendments 4227 and 4233. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u275	They're rejected. Amendments 4228, 4229, 4231, 4235, 4239, 4240, 4244 and 4246. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 81 against, 175 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u276	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 170 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u277	They're rejected. We are now voting on the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendment 1324. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 170 against 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u278	It's rejected. Amendment 1350. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 93 against, 185 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u279	It's rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 167 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u280	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 12, Foreign and Cooperation Affairs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 176 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u281	The text of the opinion of section 12, Foreign and Cooperation Affairs, was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on Section 34, Financial relations with the European Union. Amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. We are going to vote in bloc on the amendments tabled by this group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u282	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the text of the opinion in Section 34, Financial relations with the European Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 178 against, 168 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u283	The text of the opinion in section 34, Financial relations with the European Union, was adopted. - Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the Year 2018. [[CONTINUATION]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u284	We continue with the debate on section 23, Agriculture, Food and Environment. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to leave the Chamber in silence because the Minister is about to start her speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u285	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to present the draft budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment for the financial year 2018. One more year, thanks to the efforts made by all Spaniards and the policies and measures put in place by this government, the Spanish economy is growing in a firm and balanced way, which has facilitated the creation of nearly half a million jobs in the last twelve months. However, there is still much work to be done. For this reason, we continue to strive to strengthen the foundations of economic growth and job creation in our country. We care about the citizens and take care of their well-being, so we have tried to present budgets this year that reflect this way of doing politics, and as a result of this work we can affirm that the 2018 budgets are the most social in our country's history, because from the government, with the president at the head, we put people at the centre of all our actions. As far as the 2018 budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment are concerned, I shall go on to detail them. The consolidated budget for 2018 amounts to €9649.27 million. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u286	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u287	This represents an increase of 1.78 % over the 2017 financial year, which was 9480.56, i.e. an increase of 168.71 million euros. Of this amount, the part allocated to the State subsector amounts to EUR 1377 million, while autonomous bodies and the State Meteorology Agency will be allocated EUR 8272 million from the consolidated budget. At the level of the ministry's most prominent spending policies, the 2018 budget will allocate the following amounts: EUR 7463 million for agriculture, fisheries and food policy, 1,3% higher than the 2017 budgets; EUR 1618 million for infrastructure policy, 3.5% higher than the previous year; and EUR 86,3 million for meteorology policy, 2.2% higher than 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets for 2018 will contribute to the improvement of our agri-food and fisheries sector and to the protection of our environment. I then go on to break down the ministry's broad lines and programmes of action in 2018. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u288	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u289	In relation to Chapter 1, staff costs, the planned allocation for 2018 amounts to EUR 375.6 million, an increase of 2,9 % compared to last year. This appropriation will cover the salaries of the Ministry's staff, which covers 9275 persons. One more year I would like to thank all the Ministry's workers for their efforts in improving the conditions of our agri-food and fisheries sector as well as for their efforts in protecting our environment. Without them this important work would not be possible. With regard to agricultural insurance, the subsidies provided for in the Thirty-ninth Combined Agricultural Insurance Plan amount to EUR 211.27 million, representing an average subsidy of around 30% compared to the total foreseeable cost. This item is expandable and, if necessary, the credit will be increased to ensure that the level of coverage is maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has always relied on agricultural insurance, and that is why we maintain the level of public support and not only through the annual allocations in the State's General Budgets. Year after year, the different insurance schemes have been approved, including measures to promote recruitment by farmers and livestock farmers by improving the different lines and always listening to the demands of the different sectors. Thus, we have introduced measures such as the fractionation of payments to policies supported by SAECA; the subsidy, to the maximum extent permitted by the European Union, of basic insurance lines; or the adoption of concrete solutions to engage farmers and livestock farmers. [[65 %]] All this has allowed the forecast for 2018 to be no better. The insurance levels this year will exceed the guaranteed capital in 2017, which reached 13.7 billion euros, marking a historical record. I think we should be proud of our agricultural insurance system, which is on its way to being forty years old, and from the government we will continue to support it as we have been doing so far. I shall now break down the budget for agriculture, fisheries and food policies, which amounts to 7463 million, 1.3% more than last year, allowing for the continuation of the policies agreed for this parliamentary term. We want the agri-food sector to remain a strategic sector for our economy. In general, we have given priority to actions involving European co-financing in order to maximise the use of Community funds. In 2018 we allocated 104.5 million euros for the financing of rural development programmes of the autonomous communities in which, as you know, the ministry does not participate but does finance. By now entering into the details of the programmes managed by the General Secretariat for Agriculture and Food, for the competitiveness and quality of production and agricultural markets, more than EUR 44 million has been allocated with the aim of increasing agricultural income by enhancing innovation, promoting competitiveness and strengthening the productive structure of farms. The competitiveness and quality of agricultural health programme is worth EUR 35.8 million. The objective of this programme is to ensure compliance with health requirements, traceability and registration of agricultural production, prevention of pests or health and environmental control in the means of production used by producers. This programme consolidates the Ministry's collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, with €6 million for the prevention and control of pests and €8 million for State programmes for the eradication of animal diseases. The competitiveness programme of the agri-food industry and food quality has a budget of EUR 25.3 million to support the agri-food sector, from industrialization, marketing and promotion of final products to the management and vertebration of the agri-food chain. Among our main objectives is the promotion of our agricultural, fisheries and agri-food products, beyond our borders. For this reason, the line of promotion and support for the internationalisation of agricultural, fisheries and agri-food products has increased to EUR 7.1 million, an additional 52%. In this regard, I would like to recall that in 2017 Spanish exports of agri-food products hit a historic record by exceeding EUR 50 billion for the first time. I shall now comment on the three programmes in which the Directorate-General for Rural Development and Forestry Policy is involved and its corresponding budget. The water management programme for irrigation has also increased its budget to €57.7 million. Watering has a fundamental role to play in generating wealth and employment throughout the territory, and we can say that Spanish agriculture is today more competitive thanks to the development of watering and more sustainable thanks to its modernization. The modernization of irrigation avoids the depopulation and ageing of rural areas, one of our main objectives of this legislature. In the same vein and with the aim of creating attractive welfare conditions to set people in rural areas, within the rural development programme, the Directorate-General for Rural Development and Forestry Policy will have EUR 132.1 million. Finally, through the protection and improvement of the natural environment programme, the Directorate-General will allocate EUR 119.3 million to meet the commitments contained in the Forest Action Plan, as the protection of our mountains is of vital importance to us. Under the plan, EUR 82.5 million will be allocated for preventive work and forest fires. To conclude the part of the General Secretariat of Agriculture and Food, I will make a brief mention of two autonomous bodies associated with it: the Agency for Food Information and Control, the AICA, which ensures the proper functioning of the food chain, which this year has a budget of 6.3 million euros; and the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Fund, which is responsible for the management and control of the European agricultural funds received by Spain, whose budget amounts to 6976 million euros. In short, these budgets of the General Secretariat for Agriculture and Food will allow us to continue to improve the functioning of the agri-food sector and its marketing, to continue to gain new markets and to generate more value and wealth, and, of course, to give stability and competitiveness to our sector in order to ensure its future growth. I turn next to the budget of the Secretariat of State for the Environment, which rises by 3.6% compared to 2017, to 2108,7 million euros. This will enable further progress to be made in meeting the environmental commitments made at both international and national level. In the area of water, the overall budget for this year is over EUR 1688 million, an increase of 4.5% compared to the previous year. Of these, EUR 818 million will be earmarked for investments in water; EUR 536 million for the conservation and maintenance of hydraulic infrastructure; EUR 152 million for the purification of waste water and the improvement of the quality of water bodies and their associated ecosystems. These budgets will enable us to meet environmental objectives, meet demands and improve the management of extreme weather events, both floods and droughts. We will also give continuity to the actions in the area of sanitation and sewage treatment the competence of the State included in the Growth Plan. In the field of costs, the budget allocated is EUR 89.9 million, with 57.7 million of investment through the coastal actions programme. This will contribute to the protection of the marine environment of our coastal systems and to the conservation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain. These budgets also allow progress to be made in implementing the coastal protection strategies already approved and in drafting those that are still pending. The appropriations for the Directorate-General for Quality and Environmental Assessment and the Natural Environment are increased to EUR 28.1 million, 24% more than in 2017. On the one hand, the programme for the protection and improvement of the environment has a budget of EUR 14.2 million. They will be used for the processing of environmental assessment procedures, for the protection of the atmosphere and for the management of environmental risk of chemicals and for progress towards the objectives of the Waste Law and the State Waste Management Framework Plan 2016-2022. In addition, Air Plan II will be developed and we will develop the national air pollution control programme, which will establish measures for reducing emissions. On the other hand, the programme for the protection and improvement of the natural environment has 13.8 million euros for the protection of our biodiversity. The global climate change budget exceeds €55 million, 5% more than in 2017, of which €19.5 million is included in the programme actions for the prevention of pollution and climate change of the Spanish Climate Change Office. In the 2018 budgets, climate change policy is integrated into the programmes of all directorates-general so that the budgets are in the units that implement the measures, thus achieving greater efficiency in their management. The adaptation budget also grows, up to €35.5 million, 4% more than in 2017, and the mitigation budget, which adds up to €17.5 million, 24% more, highlighting the increase in the Carbon Fund reaching €12 million, with an increase of 30,5%. Moreover, the budget of the State Meteorology Agency, Aemet, will amount to EUR 129 million, an increase of 2,1 % over 2017. The budget of the autonomous National Parks agency is 36.2 million euros and the budget for the Biodiversity Foundation, which this year celebrates its twentieth anniversary, amounts to 9.9 million euros, which will be expanded to 24.7 with the European funds it administers to carry out more than fifty initiatives and projects. In short, these budgets of the Secretariat of State for the Environment allow us to continue working to improve the growth model that we want to achieve as a country, as a society and as individuals, since the protection of the environment is a commitment of all and a responsibility not only to the future but also to ourselves. Finally, I am going to break down the budget for fisheries policy, which for this year amounts to more than EUR 56 million. This will enable us to continue our policy in this area, which, as you know, is based on sound scientific knowledge, on strengthening inspection and control and on ensuring the maximum long-term sustainable yield of fisheries resources. To this end, the Secretariat-General for Fisheries has two budgetary programmes: the improvement of fisheries structures and markets programme has EUR 38.8 million and revolves around the following areas. The first is structural policy, with a budget of EUR 13.4 million to meet the needs arising from the implementation of the measures contained in the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. We will also allocate EUR 6 million to articulate financial instruments that will help boost the competitiveness of the fisheries and aquaculture sector. The second area of activity is the fisheries economy and marketing, to which EUR 7.4 million is allocated, of which 6.5 million is directed to fisheries producer organisations for the financing of their production plans and marketing, overtaking and restructuring and storage mechanism. The third major area of activity is control and inspection, with a budget of EUR 7.8 million. In this regard, I would like to stress that since 2016 our control and inspection system has been a European and international benchmark. It has all the ISO 9001:2015 certification, but we continue to work to maintain and improve it by allocating 4 million euros to the maintenance of the fishing information system, 4.9 for the management of the electronic logbook on board and the Fisheries Monitoring Centre and 8 million for the deployment of means of inspection, in order to ensure compliance with the current regulations. The other programme managed by the General Secretariat for Fisheries is the one for the protection of fisheries resources and sustainable development, which will have 17.3 million euros this year; of them we will allocate 11 million for research and scientific studies, because we believe that having the best scientific advice is essential for the better management of resources and this will help us to move forward in our commitment to fisheries sustainability. Under this programme for the protection of fisheries resources and sustainable development, EUR 4 million will be allocated to marine reserves. We are aware that marine reserves are a long-term investment in biodiversity and sustainable fisheries, and therefore from the government we attach great importance to them as a model of fisheries protection. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Through these budgets, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment will be able to continue to work for the benefit of all Spaniards, especially our farmers, farmers and fishermen, as well as for the improvement and care of our environment. Once again, the People's Party Government is acting in a serious and responsible manner, caring for the needs of citizens. That is why, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, we have endeavoured to create the most social budgets in our country's history, budgets designed for people living in rural areas, so that the main economic activity in many of these areas will work, be attractive and generate employment. Because the agri-food sector is strategic for our economy and is shown by the record figures in agricultural income, 27 831 million euros in 2017, 25% more than in 2011, and in the value of the production of the agricultural branch, 49 192 million euros reached in 2017. These are budgets designed to promote social progress and the growth of society, through the care and protection of the environment, with policies aimed at improving the quality of life of people in terms of air quality or the protection of the coast and the natural environment, among others. In short, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets will allow Spain to continue along the path of balanced and sustainable growth and stable job creation, improving the lives of all people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u290	Thank you very much. In the defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, in agriculture we are going to get worse, because we have less and less representation in the budget as a whole, and the purely intermediary nature of the ministry between the European funds and the autonomous communities is increasing, and also with increasing management costs, and above all with a clear lack of political will to understand what territorial diversity means. [[The lady]] Compromís has tabled a number of amendments which we would like to see voted on, and we would like to appeal in particular to the Valencian Members of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. We have had bad luck with the People's Party in the Valencian territory, because in the twenty years that it ruled, three of the four presidents that we had ended up accused, and 34% of the 46 councillors of the Valencian Government between 1995 and 2015 are either accused of corruption or have already been convicted or some in prison. Of course, we are obviously talking about a party that there in my land is a decaying corpse, and whose natural destiny should be to serve as a fertilizer to the fertile land, but surprisingly Citizens, I do not know if in an exercise of necrophilia, it seems that it is willing to recover that corpse and take advantage of it some viscera. In any case, we would like you to take into account the amendments that we are putting forward, because they are common sense, consistent and back to normal. First of all, we are very concerned about the xylella because for 2018 the animal and plant health program is kept frozen, and we are facing a very dangerous plague that is causing great damage in some regions, especially in the Navy Alta and Baja in Alicante. Only the Generalitat compensates those affected by this bacteria, the ministry does not put a euro, and therefore we ask 23 million euros to combat the plague of the xylella, which is already affecting in Andalusia and Madrid. [[The Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, García Tejerina, makes negative gestures]] It is also necessary to provide resources to the Instituto Valenciano de Investigaciones Agrarias, which is the reference laboratory at state level in bacteriological matters. That's why since Compromís we've asked for a half-million-euro game, a third of what the government is going to allocate to fix the railing of the La Concha promenade in San Sebastián. It is scandalous that we do not invest in research which, for example, is invested in fixing railings. The question of water and desalination is also very important. We need to fix the problem we have. The Valencian Community is drying up. Investments are needed on the San Diego ferry, to which only EUR 50 000 are devoted for an infrastructure of EUR 40 million. You need to put a lot more money into this raft, which is the second largest in Europe, to work. Muchamiel's desalinator needs to be reactivated. It is necessary that the Valencian albufera, which is the most important aquatic ecosystem of Valencians and one of the most important in Europe, is not left this year with a 100 000 euros rickets. It is necessary that the western collector of the albufera finish his works with the 2 million we have ordered. I have made a summary, because I would like to talk about the amendments on the Taibilla Canal, the Moncofar desalinator and the need to deal with the plague of the red pick. In any case, I would like to stress the urgency and importance of providing Valencian agriculture with the resources it needs to vertebrate the territory, and in this we want to see the consistency in the votes of the Valencian Members, or who say they represent Valencian constituencies, the People's Party and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u292	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Postius Terrado.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u293	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to this section which concerns the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment for 2018, one more year we repeat what we said in the previous budget that was approved: it is not good for the sector, nor does it incorporate the resources that are necessary to address the challenges we have in this area, and again are harmful budgets for Catalonia. We also find that these budgets disregard the activity of the Congressional Committee on Agriculture. For the second year in a row, we have to put forward amendments which arise from some of the GNPs which, at the time, were adopted in the Commission by the Group of the European People's Party and by citizens and which are not now included in this section. On the other hand, we are faced with statements such as those made today by the government's great minister on the importance of the agricultural sector to the whole state. In this we all agree, but when it comes to putting these statements into practice, which means increasing the resources allocated to the sector and, above all, implementing the budget, we find that commitments and resources are carried by the wind, both in investments and in specific items that are so necessary. We can talk - the Minister has done this - about the annual plan of agricultural insurance and the resources that are allocated. The year 2017 was very bad for the primary sector and especially for the sweet fruit sector. Now, more than ever, resources should be increased to reduce the premium paid by farmers and help them in whatever they can, especially because the price crisis does not cause it, nor do they have effective tools to deal with this situation. And what does the government do in these budgets? Another year is turning its back on farmers, who are having a really bad time, because there is no increase in resources for this purpose. By the way, when does the government intend to publish the list of Catalan municipalities in which a reduction of the modules paid by bone fruit farmers for the ruinous prices of 2017 can be applied? This list is still to be published, not to mention, for example, the paths of ownership of the CHE that run through the province of Lleida. Different GNPs have been approved and the investment is still zero, nor have they taken note of the situation that punishes thousands of farmers and farmers in Catalonia as a result of the catastrophic update that is being carried out, which is severely punishing agricultural incomes. In short, we have tabled some 150 amendments relating to infrastructure, road improvements, modernising irrigation, boosting and implementing rural development plans, etc. These are amendments that the sector and the agricultural unions are sending us, and we believe that they are necessary. In any case, we thank the groups that are going to vote for them today, and we regret once again that the People's and Citizens' Group is turning its back on such an important sector for the State, and particularly for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u294	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u295	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the two group partners, Ester Capella and Teresa Jordà, especially Teresa Jordá, because she will be the new agricultural adviser, Ramaderia, Pesca i Alimentació and with this takes over another great adviser who is in exile, Meritxell Serret. One of Meritxell Serret's objectives was to put forward an agricultural policy of its own with sufficient entity and strength to address the new guidelines and challenges that arose. Precisely a new agricultural policy of our own is one of the issues we miss in these budgets. We do not find agricultural policies directed, but we find a certain inertia in what has been done so far. Once again the General Budgets of the State for 2018 show that the Spanish State has in fact renounced its own agricultural policies, even according to the social and sustainability criteria, which are the new challenges we are facing. There are three points I will insist on. On the one hand, Mapama's budgets continue to lose specific weight over other departments' set of items. It is important to take this into account, because it means that there is no real bet for a qualitative leap. It increased from 3.44% in 2009 to 2.90% in 2012 and 2.14% in 2018. Next year, year that decreases the percentage. On the other hand, if we look at the budget line for the agriculture section, we will see that most of the budget comes from the forecast of contributions from the common agricultural policy. Apart from ordinary operating expenses, the operational items provided by the State - which would represent current transfers, real investments and capital transfers - account for 20.3% compared to the 79.7% borne by the European Union. See, only 20 % compared to 80 %. Over the years 2009 and 2010, 3035 % has been taken over to a gradual reduction to a level close to 20 % in previous years. It has therefore really given up on the responsibility to pursue an agricultural policy and the common agricultural policy is simply being managed. Another element that shows no interest in the development of the sector is the repeated low level of budget implementation. We are afraid that in 2018 the implementation rates will continue to fluctuate between 35 and 40%. We are therefore back as we are every year and the responsibility to carry out the entire budget has not just been consolidated. With this budget and with these 3 points it is impossible to address the needs of the sector, as they are simply limited to managing the bulk of Community funds. I insist that the Government has renounced its own agricultural policy. The freezing of investment in projects as crucial to the sector as the Rural Development Programme also demonstrates this lack of political will, but there is also a lack of commitment to the development of tools already available to the State, which would only need to be deployed with adequate funding. It has been emphasized in different spaces where we have a great tool, which is the Rural Development Programme, with which we could really make important agricultural policies. This program is the second in volume of resources, with 14.2% of the ministry's operating budget; hence its importance. Although the budgets have projected an increase of 1.7% compared to 2017, it is clearly insufficient if we take into account that, on the one hand, it is a key project in the State's sustainable development policies, and on the other hand, since 2012 the programme has been suffering a cumulative reduction of 18.8%. There has therefore been an abandonment of this great agricultural policy tool. They are therefore budgets drawn up without a clear model of rural development. As I said, they simply respond to inertias from the same agricultural policies of recent years; inertias that today reproduce deficiencies and are unable to respond to the major challenges such as - by showing some signs - social and territorial cohesion, depopulation in agricultural areas, sustainability policies or the effects of climate change. There are major challenges that are not really taken into account and would entail an increase in the budget. The Socialist Left Parliamentary Group has tabled one hundred and ninety-four amendments to this section 23, with proposals that seek to remedy the deficits I have been pointing out. A block of amendments tabled by our group to section 23 defends a sustainable agricultural model with proposals, for example, for promoting a circular economy. In this respect I would perhaps highlight Amendment No 761, which proposes a heading dedicated to a project for the research and development of the treatment of purines, an environmental programme with serious consequences, that of ejections to the pig sector, which does not receive sufficient attention and which even the administration itself is blocking. I am talking about the difficulties that the Ministry of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda is putting on the viability of purine treatment plants, which is a matter of real concern and which we should treat as a priority. Another group of amendments, for example, seek to guarantee the agricultural sector, a key sector for the development of the rural environment, socially. In this regard, for example, we call for an increase in the provision of the National Agricultural Insurance Plan, which is fundamental, and in another amendment we call for the restoration of the departure for the payment of State aid to dried fruits. This last game has surprisingly been eliminated by 2018, when we all know that dry farming is one of the most vulnerable sectors. I don't want to spread anymore. In any case, we must bear in mind that there are great challenges that we have to face and that there are policies of our own that would really allow that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u297	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen with a stomach of Spartan resistance, go ahead. Minister, rereading last year's intervention, I started by saying: these are not budgets to fight climate change. And I'm afraid I have to start again by telling you the same thing, and as we go the climate change law is not that it's going to be late, but it's going to be too late, and we haven't received any information as to why. There is a good climate in the Climate Change Commission - never better said - and the experts tell us about coincident elements and I think that we could reach a broad agreement, but the law does not arrive. The danger is not only that the law comes late, but that it comes without financial capacity. You have told us that all the departments will already provide, but this is not to say too much, because I think you can't trust any department or more yourself. We therefore need, black on white, to make it possible, and as a button shows; the government's revenues from the auction of allowances paid by large electricity subject to the emissions trading system do not go to policies to mitigate climate change, Mr Montoro remains, go to the single box. Let us look for elements that have cause and effect and in which we can move forward. I am increasingly skeptical that we will be able to have the law, but we will continue to work together, because the challenge is so important that it has no territorial or political borders, what there is is common sense, which we sometimes lack. That is why you will still have our collaboration, but, tictac - as was said - because this is ending. We will not, therefore, vote in favour of these budgets, but we will be with you and all the parliamentary groups to move forward on this issue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u298	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u299	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is supposed that it is precisely in this section 23 that the Government should put all its emphasis on doing what systematically, both the minister and the Members of the People's Party, say: that they are the party of the rural world, and in our view, when we see these budgets, this is not much less so, but quite the opposite. It is not the budgets that we expected or the budgets that we believe the sector expected. Neither citizen Spain, green Spain, nor blue Spain. Environmental programmes are ridiculous. The only two fisheries programmes are barely coming, as the Secretary of State for Fisheries said in his appearance in this House, to make him very creative. We have said this in the Commission and we reiterate it: we are facing a false and misleading budget. We are told that the total budget of this section is increased by 1.3 compared to 2017, however this figure has a trick. The increase is based on forecasts of income from transfers of European funds 10.3% higher than what actually entered in previous years. Mrs Tejerina and Mr Montoro, it seems a lie that the deviations between the budgeted and finally received each year have varied by EUR 501 million since 2012. We may be wrong in the calculation one year, but rather it seems like a mechanism to systematically make up budgets. The Government of the People's Party, which is inflated to say that it supports the rural world and the primary sector, really contributes to these funds, to this section, is 20% of the total budget in section 23. Having said that, and in order to be clear and in advance of what Mrs Tejerina usually tells us, our group is obviously committed to the economic and ecological viability of the primary sector, and to a living rural world where there are opportunities for employment and decent living. That is to say, we want farmers, farmers, fishing communities to be able to live off their work and what they should pay decently for what they fish or produce. We bet that people who want to live in the villages and have a way to develop life projects and economic projects to raise their children, to have access to public services on equal terms. We also advocate a healthy and healthy environment, as well as biodiversity as a common heritage. All these things that I have just listed are precisely those that you are systematically endangering with your budgets, and this year too. Finally, it is a model debate. We and we defend agriculture and family, social, sustainable and territorially linked livestock, as well as quality fishing and farming industry, linked to the peoples, who are finally able to set the population and keep the economic fabric alive. You, on the contrary, defend large commercial areas, farms of 20 000 cows or 35 000 pigs or all the companies that make up the great employer of food. Our amendments to section 23 have incorporated hundreds of demands that come directly from agricultural, social, rural, ecological or fishermen's organisations, demands that they make over and over again and that you do not attend to. We have proposed measures to support producers in very vulnerable sectors, such as nuts, milk goats or milk cows, or to increase aid for beekeeping, which is suffering incredibly, or for the whole sector of bone fruit, with measures that you know perfectly well are necessary, not to say essential, and that you do not want to implement. We have included amendments to increase stocks or implement measures aimed at improving animal and plant health, an essential issue if we want to support the sector in its capacity to adapt to climate change or to face serious threats such as xylella or potato moth, and yet you ignore us and the sector. We have proposed amendments to strengthen the agricultural insurance policy, which has been frozen since 2013, in the context of climate change, with increasing frequency of climatic adversities. The only explanation we find to understand why they do not listen to these demands is that they move towards the privatization of these elements. We have also proposed amendments to strengthen the actual implementation of the Law on Improving the Functioning of the Food Chain. With regard to the management of irrigation or water infrastructures, in view of their vision of large infrastructures, which do little to our opinion help the problem, we understand that the key is the restoration of the ecological cycle of aquatic systems. We have also proposed measures to enable short marketing circuits or consignments to give a boost to the development of the market for organic products, the flexibility of sanitary regulations for small-scale farms or agro-food industries, etc. And in the face of this we have simply found that you are claiming to be subsidized donations to your friends at FIAP. Fishing also continues to disappear from these budgets; they disregard our amendments on the artisanal fleet or support for the fishing regions, the shellfishing of our ria or to nourish the research centres. Its proposal for rural development leaves us directly paralysed. There is nothing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and also of the citizens, for rural development policy and nothing to combat depopulation. We have finally introduced one hundred and eighty-nine amendments in the environmental programmes of this section to strengthen the water quality plan, to be able to act in emergency situations, to be able to implement and implement issues that are approved by you and that do not develop, such as the National Waste Strategy, such as the Marine Strategy, such as the Coast Climate Change Adaptation Strategy, and of course the strategies for controlling and eradicating invasive species, whose inaction costs us millions of euros every year. But we have also introduced amendments to combat air pollution or soil pollution. And what am I going to tell you about the fight against climate change, where they reduce the climate change action programme by more than 20%. In our view, they do not care about the rural environment, they do not care about our productive sectors, they do not care about the environment, they will do nothing to mitigate climate change. Nothing new, a shame, in our opinion, gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u300	The Socialist Group has the floor, first of all, Mr González Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you're optimistic; farmers aren't. And if the Socialist Parliamentary Group talks about it, it is not new in this House, almost empty, but it is not new. Those who say so are the professional agricultural organizations; they say that these budgets are racans, they are highly valued. Besides the numbers say it all; they are the second lowest budgets of the decade, minister, and you know it. But the concern is that in a year like this, when budgets are very low, we are also going to debate the reform of the CAP, which is what concerns farmers, because they are thinking of the 5% cut in direct payment, and other cuts in other rural development measures, that is, that a 15% or 17% cut for the rural world can be achieved, and together with these unsensitive budgets, we understand that it is not to be optimistic. We have tried to correct, we have tried to amend, we have tried to tell you that in some cases there is no endowment, and in others this under-funded. That is why the Socialist Party has amended to try to have more budgets for the modernization of agricultural holdings, for the incorporation of young people into agriculture and for the improvement of agricultural holdings; or on the issue of plant health, which we lack more budget, especially in a year in which farmers in all the autonomous communities are concerned about diseases, and above all one, about the annoying xylella; or the crisis of the bone fruit sector. The market, the marketing, made them suffer last year and this year we do not see budget lines to help them temporarily. Agricultural insurance maintains budgets year after year; it extends budgets, but does not consolidate for a need to guarantee agricultural income, when the farmer is suffering in the same year floods and droughts, droughts and floods; on the same day frosted and granulated. That is why we need to consolidate this budget. And I leave for the end an amendment - I look at Citizens and the People's Parliamentary Group - to which you say no. It fills the two groups, socialist comrades, to say that they are with the rural world in measures to be taken to mitigate depopulation and what better proof than a button. The Socialist Group's amendment 2476 is to combat depopulation, to tell the rural world that we need to be sensitive to them, and the People's Party and Citizens say no to it; an amendment that seeks to contribute EUR 80 million so that in all the territories of this country, from east to west and from north to south, which have a population density below 12.5 inhabitants per square kilometre can have more money. That is why I miss - with this I finish, Madam President - that in these 2018 budgets, where we are going to see who carries the most flags, the national flag - we are all Spaniards let's come from where we come from, a castellanomanchego, an albaceteño...-, let's get into the General Budgets of the State, Minister, the flag of solidarity and social justice. This last amendment was to make it more sensitive. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u302	The next item is Mr Palacín Guarné.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u303	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I support the Socialist Group's amendments to Section 23 in the chapters on environmental protection, climate change and water management. But before we begin, I wanted to say that it does not matter what the budget is when we do not have a definite project, and that is what happens to the People's Party government and in particular to its ministry, because it serves little purpose in defending the importance of the fight against climate change when we cannot even convince the government colleagues, including Minister Nadal. It is useless to defend the importance of the policies of his ministry and of the agri-food sector when the Mapama budget loses weight in the global year after year. It will end in the first half of 2018 and we continue to wait for the climate change law, when the consequences of it have already suffered and we have seen that every year they are more palpable. That is why my group has tabled an amendment to increase the climate change programme by EUR 30 million, a programme that has been falling year after year since 2011 with 78% less budget and 20% less than last year. They send a bad message with these cuts in this game to citizens in general and to the international community. We can believe that there are cross-cutting figures that can withstand that 40 million euros in the rest of the ministries, but little or no credibility can have. Nor have we been able to find any departure from the measures that emerged from the drought bill that we passed in this House on 15 February. We help him to get better conditions for his ministry but we find nothing from the fund of urgent measures, those 1 billion that this House approved, nor from the urgent measures for the promotion of desalination, which do not appear either. As far as hydraulic infrastructure is concerned, there is little or nothing to budget for such infrastructure when it has not just been implemented and when there is obviously no realistic hydraulic planning. There is a part of the hydraulic infrastructure that is always forgotten to them, a fundamental part for socialists, which is that of territorial restitution. That is why we have tabled numerous amendments to provide a budget for several territorial restitution projects, including that of Jánovas, Mularroya and Montearagon. Citizens have tabled a copy of our amendment by reducing the EUR 2 million to EUR 1 million, but we are going to vote in favour of that amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u304	I give the floor to Mr Heredia Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u305	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fishing budget is short, very short. In fact, in the last year of socialist government, just twice as much was allocated in the 2018 budget. With only 56 million, we cannot respond to the largest fleet in the European Union, which accounts for 24% of capacity and 22% of employment. With 56 million, the sector's numerous problems cannot be addressed, such as the cuts approved for 2018 by the European Union's fisheries ministers, which mainly affect the fishing sector in the Cantabrian and North-West; the restriction on fishing in the Mediterranean, which affects several species such as salmon and hake; the agreement with Morocco, whose current protocol expires very soon, on 14 July; the rules that will come into force next year with new rules for discharge into ports against discards; the Brexit or the sardine fence in the Gulf of Cadiz, among others. That is why we have tabled a series of amendments to support the canning industry, both mussel and shellfish; to promote associationism and support women in this sector; to consolidate and grow a sector with more help in the European Union's programmes and a very important commitment to innovation and research. No one understands that since Rajoy's arrival in the government has cut by 20% the researchers dedicated to the sea, no one understands it, especially in view of the importance of this sector in our country. Fishing has been a marginalized sector since Rajoy came to the government. If we want a leading fisheries sector, we need more investment, more negotiation with Europe, more interest and more means to solve the problems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u307	Madam, President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the few of us, this seems like a Commission rather than a plenary. Madam Minister, when last year we defended the budget section for Agriculture we explained the difficult quadrature of the circle, because we had to end the cuts, not raise taxes, include recovery measures from the middle working class and make a realistic budget that met the deficit and debt targets. That made the Agriculture budget resent, of course it did. This year, which has already achieved its objectives, is the year of reversing the cuts that affected the middle working class, of reversing the harmful effects that affected the people who suffered the most from the economic crisis, and doing so in a year that is not electoral, which means jumping the habit between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, which always do so when it is electoral year, but not this year. On the rural issue, I would like to say to the Socialist Party colleagues that taxes have been lowered to the lowest incomes; low incomes, unfortunately, in the rural world are many and taxes are going to be lowered to the rural world. Pensions are going to rise; unfortunately, the rural world is getting older and older, so they are going to receive more money for pensions. Social spending is growing by 56% and financing for the autonomous communities, many of which you govern, is increasing, so at least be glad about it. Schools from 0 to 3 years are included, which receive 1,000 euros. We talk a lot about depopulation and that young people in the villages do not have the future assured because there are no services, because we give services. The salary supplement will anchor the rural youth to their people because it will allow them to have a salary to reach the end of the month. And that's thanks to the policies we've made since Citizens. What have we done? For in September, how should all the parties that come here to work and to improve the lives of the citizens, sit with the government and say to them: gentlemen, you need our vote, can we reach an agreement? Why? Because we look forward to reaching agreements that will stabilize our country, allow us to grow and allow the rural environment to grow. What's not good for me is that you're in it is not no, it's not no, it's not no. The Lords of Podemos have another different policy, but they are wiser because they are clear that they will never reach an agreement because they do not want to. But you, who have been a party of government and who talk about stability, you are in the no-no, and then you come up with some amendments that we have to go through because they are important. We also have the equal pay of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and that includes the Civil Guard, which is doing exceptional work in the rural world, with few human and material resources and often leaving their lives to maintain the safety of the citizens of the rural world. Thanks to us you're going to get the equal pay, and you're going to vote no. [[Applauds]] I remind you, they're going to vote no. Mr Olòriz, now that we are on a small committee, we have talked about 2017 and 2018, but I want to ask the minister for a job that we can do among all of us from now on. Let us make a budget for 2019 in which the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment has the necessary resources to be able to work in the fight against climate change. Climate change is cross-cutting, it affects all items; it affects Development, Energy, Industry, it is cross-cutting and we all have to work and, to do so, we have to provide it with a budget. Not only do we need governance, the law, but that law needs funding. For what? To move from a fossil energy-based economy to one of renewable energy and energy efficiency. But that's a model change, a chip change, which is made on the basis of having a budget. The year 2019, Minister, I believe will be the year of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Mr Heredia is right, only 56 million for fishing is small, but first we will have to solve the problem of how to meet deficit targets and then improve citizens' lives through better social spending. Once that is over, we will have to decide and support the fight against climate change. Both Mr Antón and Mr Palacín have not read the amendments - I have read theirs - because, indeed, there is a decrease in the departure of the Climate Change Office of 20%, but thanks to an agreement in the form of a compromise with the People's Party we have given it 6 million more, thanks to the work of my colleague José Luis Martínez González, who realized that there was a fall. This represents an increase of 28%, i.e. 8% more than last year. I have to say that there is another amendment - I say it to Mr Antón because Mr López de Uralde is not here - on the famous amendment of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act. To make a law and put it into operation we need a budget, and it only had a million euros. We have raised another million euros to set it up by trading with the People's Party. Those of us who were against natural heritage and biodiversity have put in another million euros so that this law can be made and endowed with the necessary items for that law to be complied with, Mr Antón. You haven't done anything and you're going to vote no. Tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack, Mr. Antón. [[Applauds]] We have a responsibility to the citizens and to our country to care for and protect our prosperity and progress without damaging the environment. On the PSOE amendments, Mr Heredia, Mr Palacín and Mr González, apart from having an important view of them, I recognize their professional value, so I do not understand how they present these types of amendments, I do not understand it. In the 454A program, Water Management and Infrastructures, with the needs we have of water infrastructure because we are doing inefficient management of a scarce resource and with the needs we have to do a renovation of infrastructure by obsolescence that you have, you use these departures for beach regeneration, path, recovery of green routes, sea walks, livestock fair pavilions and, at most, the renovation of a headquarters of a hydrographic confederation. But what policies do you have with water? Do you think this is serious? But, look, Mr González arrives and says: No, we want research, innovation and the integration of cooperatives. What's he playing against? Against water quality. What do you want us not to comply with the Water Framework Directive? They should be more professional. For agricultural insurance and implementation of the Local Development and Depopulation Act demand 80 million. How did they do it? Are there ratios, KPIs that have studied why it's 80 million? Or did someone show up and tell them it's 80 million? Or have they made the theory that is usually made in Spain... : 80 million? And what match do they put him against? Against market regulation, which is where should it come from? [[sucks the index finger and lifts it to the air]] No, against the Contingency Fund. A little more serious, Mr González, when it comes to making such amendments. Heredia, we have tabled an amendment to the plan for the regrowth of the Concepción reservoir. The People's Party used to ask the Socialist Party, when it was in the government, to do it, and now you, Mr Heredia, on behalf of the Socialist Party, are asking the People's Party to do it, and it has had to be citizens to put a million euros here for this to begin. And you know what's good? That when you return to Malaga...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u308	I beg you to finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u309	One second and I'm done, Madam President. When you return to Malaga, you will ask yourself: Have I really done what I had to do to improve the lives of the citizens of my region or province? Your answer will be: no. Mrs Rivera and Mr Díaz, on the other hand, will say: we do. And the worst part is, you know that. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u310	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carreño Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u311	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, after listening to the opposition, one thing can only be said: the story of the left does not represent me. [[Rumors]] It gives the impression that you have not studied the budget and neither have you heard the minister today because you have merely reiterated your position against government policy. That is why, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to highlight this important increase in the budget for Section 23 which has very well disaggregated the Minister and which will enable us to meet the demands of the agri-food, fisheries and environmental sector, after a few years with a smaller budget, because of this profound crisis that the Socialist Government left us. A point to the spokesman of Podemos. Yes, we are the party of the countryside and the one that defends rural development; you are still to define. [[Applauds]] And to the spokesman for Citizens, Mr Garaulet, two things; first, do not be 'take advantage of' the work that the Government has done on these budgets; and second, you here today wanted to be a Member of the People's Party and, look, you are not. [[Mr. Garaulet Rodriguez makes negative signs]] You haven't told the truth. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The People's Party Government's budget lowers taxes on farmers and livestock farmers. The reduction of the IRPF will result in savings of 580 million euros, savings of 2 billion euros to 3.5 million taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. However, what has the left done? To raise taxes on citizens. Yes, 8 billion euros the Socialist Party and double We can, 14 billion euros. That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Lying in politics is not right, nor is the attitude of pretending certain ideas, qualities or feelings that are absolutely contrary to those who actually feel, have or think. It is not right to lie to such a strategic sector for Spain as is the agri-food sector because it is alarming that there is a lack of rigour, a lack of budgetary study and a huge lack of awareness of the division of powers shown, ladies and gentlemen, in its amendments: 1137 amendments; quantity and low quality, ladies and gentlemen. The problem, like every year: the casualties and excesses they propose. The program chosen for the casualties by Podemos is the Contingency Fund and in the replacement of hydraulic infrastructures. You are obsessed with stopping any hydraulic infrastructure, with stopping irrigation. Think about it, because hydraulic infrastructures have allowed us to have quality food, have allowed us to grow economically, have allowed us to create jobs, fight climate change and protect our environment. The agri-food sector is the protagonist in rural development, it is the best to fight against depopulation. Therefore, stop depressing him and put into value his work, what they do and how they do it, ladies and gentlemen. As for the Citizens' Group, we are presenting transactions to make sense of your amendments, ladies and gentlemen. I want to address now the spokespersons of Compromís and PSOE because you can't lie so much. The Government has allocated 25% of funding to fight Xylella and 50% to compensation: EUR 35.8 million for agricultural health and EUR 6 million for prevention and control of pests. That's the reality. [[Applauds]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party cannot accept the amendments that you propose, because of the low levels of water policy, which is a priority for a sector as strategic as the agri-food sector, for the autonomous communities and for Spain as a whole. Your amendments are unworkable, although it is customary for you to propose amendments to sell in your autonomous communities, in your provinces, in your peoples, but which are either illegal or on projects that cannot be done. But you must know that this is what you are deceiving the citizens, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to ask some questions to the groups on the left and other formations, who have said that they will vote against this budget. What are you going to say to them when you meet in your autonomous communities, in your provinces and in your villages with farmers, farmers, the agri-food sector and ask them why you voted against EUR 7511 million for the sector, why you voted against EUR 1617 million for infrastructure, EUR 1230 million for rural development, EUR 211 million for agricultural insurance, or the Renovation Plan, or investments to improve the management of our fisheries, to protect our women and men from the sea, ladies and gentlemen? What will they say when they vote against a budget that is the most social, with measures that help young people, women, innovation, disadvantaged people with EUR 106 million in the Food Aid Plan, or the various plans to boost the environment and combat climate change? It is not true what they say; investment to combat climate change is increased by 5%, in particular by around EUR 5 million. Both the spokesman for Podemos and the Socialist Group have lied here. What are you going to say when you meet with the sector and tell them that you have voted against EUR 1 300 million for investments in irrigation modernisation, for purification, for sanitation; you have voted against EUR 1680 million for water policy, ladies and gentlemen? What are you going to tell them? When the Group of the European People's Party meets with the sector, it will tell them that we have voted in favour of these budgets because we want the agri-food sector to continue to have the funds and the tools to enable them to continue to grow and increase their exports, production and agricultural incomes. We want to protect the environment, fight fires and bet on better forest management, and of course we want to continue to put in place measures to combat climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to equal opportunities for all Spaniards, live where they live, in rural or urban areas, so we support the government's strategy to help farmers and farmers and to protect our environment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Group of the European People's Party has tabled amendments declaring many water cycle infrastructures of general interest. What we want is to continue with a policy of water modernization and water policy, which is the central axis of the Government, since the national water pact announced and in which the ministry works is open to all parliamentary groups as a priority for Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u312	Thank you very much. We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to debate section 27, Economy, Industry and Competitiveness. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u313	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House today, as my colleagues in the Council of Ministers have done in recent days, to present and defend section 27 of the State General Budgets Bill for 2018. As has been usual in all the General Budgets of the State that this Government has drawn up, the macroeconomic picture that accompanies these budgets reflects prudent, realistic and credible forecasts. You all know that this macroeconomic table has recently been updated in the context of the stability programme, although this review presented in Brussels has not included any substantial changes for 2018. Thus, the international situation is characterized by a strong and widespread economic expansion, with a global GDP that is accelerating to 3.9 % this year, largely thanks to the good behaviour of international trade. On the other hand, the projected growth in the euro area, of particular importance for Spain, is 2.4%, one tenth higher than in 2017. However, the Government has reiterated that there are downside risks stemming primarily from protectionist threats from major trading partners, from high levels of indebtedness at the global and also national levels, although the forecast is that short-term rates will remain stable in negative terrain for some quarters. Also, as is well known, geopolitical tensions in the Middle East are pushing up the price of oil and can pose a risk to our economy. However, as far as the Spanish economic situation is concerned, three fundamental facts stand out. Firstly, the Spanish economy has been growing at a rate of more than 3% for three years, ahead of all the major economies of the European Union. This growth, in the case of Spain, is being translated in a very remarkable and historically unprecedented way into a great creation of jobs. As a result, the unemployment rate has been reduced to a historically rapid speed of more than 10 points in five years. This good behavior, ladies and gentlemen, will also be maintained during 2018. In fact, as you know, the government has revised GDP growth projected for this year by four tenths to 2.7%. This upward revision is based primarily on two positive developments; firstly, the improvement of the external environment and fundamentally the euro area; and secondly, the dynamism of gross capital formation, i.e. business investment, which has grown and is growing in a very strong tone in recent months. Our growth forecast, ladies and gentlemen, is credible, is in line with that of the main international bodies and I would just like to mention the International Monetary Fund, which gives us 2.8%, that is, one tenth above our own forecast; the Bank of Spain, which gives us 2.7%; and recently the European Commission itself, which gives us 2.9%, or two tenths above our own forecast. As you know, two weeks ago the Commission rose to 2.9%, more than half a point above our forecast for growth in relation to the last forecast, which was from the previous autumn. Let me stress that this economic expansion that is already entering its fourth year is taking place in a context of price stability, with moderate inflation and based on two engines that are operating simultaneously, which is a historic first for the Spanish economy. On the one hand, the external demand that, as I said, is growing very positively and adding to the growth of the economy. It is the first time in our recent history that both demands, external and internal, are contributing positively to the growth of the Spanish economy. This will allow us to keep the current account balance at a positive figure of around 1.7%. In this way, Spain will chain - something unprecedented in our economy - seven years of surplus from our current accounts and our external balance. This shows that today our economy is more competitive and shows that our growth pattern is healthier and above all more sustainable; that is, it is the best guarantee that the economic growth we are seeing will not be strangled in the future, as was usual in the past, but that the Spanish economy is in a position to continue to grow. In contrast to what happened a few years ago, sustainable growth is not accompanied by over-appropriation of financial resources from abroad or by the indebtedness of the Spanish economy vis-à-vis the rest of the world. On the contrary, we are systematically reducing our external indebtedness and maintain, as I have already pointed out, a comfortable external financing situation. On the other hand, the private sector is making a significant effort to decoupling, with a 60-point reduction in public sector debt in relation to gross domestic product. All this means, ladies and gentlemen, that the Spanish economy has changed. We have a different economy than we had in 2011. With the government presided over by Mariano Rajoy, the Spanish economy is different, the Spanish economy has changed. This remarkable performance is also noted in the labour market. Between 2014 and 2017, 2 million jobs have been created and the growth threshold, from which the Spanish economy begins to create jobs, has been significantly reduced, taking into account our recent economic history. The forecast for this year 2018 is that, in terms of the labour force survey, 475 000 new jobs will be created, thus increasing the annual average, in an economy that is going to grow to 2.7%, will be 2.5%. These data confirm that we are on the right track to meet the Government's commitment to reach 20 million occupied by the beginning of 2020. Obviously, these good forecasts - and I will never tire of repeating it - cannot ignore that we still have a lot of work to do and that we have to persevere in job creation. Furthermore, we are aware that there are these challenges that I mentioned, that not everything is done and that the biggest mistake we could make right now is to deviate from this economic policy that is giving us results, especially in terms of employment for all Spaniards. This effort is also accompanied by a very clear commitment from the Government to fiscal discipline and the reduction of our public accounts. The draft budget foresees that the Spanish economy will abandon the so-called corrective arm of the Stability and Growth Pact, which has just been ratified by the European Commission this morning, having declared that the budget is in compliance with European standards this year. I turn now, ladies and gentlemen, to detail the budget for Section 27, which corresponds to the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness, which this year, as you have seen, will grow by 3.39% to almost 8 billion, 7933 million euros. It is a figure that exceeds EUR 13.7 billion if the allocations for the eleven agencies that are attached to this ministry are also taken into account. Of these nearly EUR 8 billion, slightly more than EUR 3 billion corresponds to non-financial chapters and the remaining EUR 4 900 are financial envelopes. The main changes with respect to last year's accounts are: firstly, an increase in Chapter 1 to meet the wage increase commitments of public employees; secondly, a reduction of almost EUR 30 million in the negative remuneration of Treasury funds and, thirdly - and let me highlight this - an increase of EUR 91.6 million, of almost EUR 92 million, of non-financial expenditure for the State Secretariat of R & D+i, without forgetting, of course, an increase of EUR 195 million in contributions to public sector enterprises for the development of technological and industrial projects linked to defence programmes and of EUR 150 million for Hisdesat to develop a new communications satellite. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now focus on the appropriations for the various departments of the ministry. First, the State Secretariat of Economy and Enterprise Support will have almost €670 million. This amount is reduced with respect to 2017 mainly because of the lower contributions to international financial institutions, since, for calendar reasons, we do not have to deal with the quotas of this type of multilateral agency of which Spain is a partner. Moreover, as you know, this department is responsible for the State's financing strategy through the Treasury General Secretariat. In this sense, the forecast for 2018 is to emit, in gross terms, slightly more than EUR 215.3 billion, almost 8% less than last year. This includes a maximum of EUR 15 164 million which will be used to finance social security through a loan of EUR 13 830 million and a transfer for the remaining amount. As a result of the fall in Treasury financing costs and lower government financing needs, since 2014 the ratio of financial expenditure to GDP has been on a steadily declining path. This will undoubtedly help the recent improvement in the ratings of the four major international rating agencies. Thus, for this year, the heading will amount to slightly more than €31.5 billion, below, in terms of GDP, than observed for 2017. This lower cost of reducing debt servicing is due to the considerable reduction that the risk premium has experienced in recent years, which benefits not only State financing, as mentioned above, but the entire economy; it benefits businesses, banks and, ultimately, it benefits mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as you know, are currently financed in Spain under better conditions, even in the central countries of the euro area. With regard to the Treasury's financing strategy, it will continue to be similar to that of recent years, based on extending the average life of debt, reducing the average financing costs and advancing the diversification of the investment base, for which we have the undoubted help of improving the qualifications to which I referred earlier. For this reason, we estimate that the public debt-to-GDP ratio will be reduced this year, according to a gradual and constantly downward path, to 97.5% at the end of the year, almost 1.5 points below the end of the next financial year. And in the Stability Programme, as you know, we expect in 2021 to fall below 90% in the debt-to-GDP ratio. As for the Secretariat of State for Trade, it will have EUR 425.4 million, which will mainly be used to consolidate the evolution of the Spanish foreign sector and to support the Spanish company in its internationalisation. In fact, this area takes 98 % of the state secretariat's allocation, EUR 416 million, which will serve to finance two main headings for our foreign trade: the biennial plan for the internationalization of the Spanish economy 2017-2018 and the instruments for financial support to the Spanish company. With regard to the biennial plan, its priorities for the 2018 financial year are: to increase the size of the exporting company, to design a promotional programme in target countries to strengthen our position as a foreign investment destination, to prioritise the innovation and digitisation of the exporting company, and to diversify our destination markets, paying particular attention to Asia and in particular to key markets such as China, Japan or India. As for financial support instruments for companies, they remain at the same levels as in 2017, ensuring that they can fully meet their commitments to finance internationalisation. Thus, the FIEM, Fund for the Internationalization of the Enterprise, is endowed with 218 million and a maximum approval ceiling of 500 million. FIEX, the Fund for Foreign Investments, and the Fund for Foreign Investment Operations of the SME, Fonpyme, are endowed with 12 million and a ceiling of approval, respectively, of 300 million and 35 million. On the other hand, a key element for the support to the exporting company, such as export credit insurance, managed by Cesce, will have an approval ceiling of EUR 9 billion, which we estimate perfectly in a position to support the Spanish exporting sector, which has been recording such good behaviour lately. ICEX, for its part, also sees its endowment increased to 80.5 million, which will allow to increase activities to promote the internationalization of the Spanish company. With regard to internal trade, the Secretariat of State will have almost twice last year's budget, with a total of 9 million, to develop the new plan to support the competitiveness of retail trade, which is currently being discussed and approved at the relevant sectoral conference. This plan, ladies and gentlemen, particularly wants to influence the digitisation of small trade in order to promote export by retail trade for Spanish tourists who want to continue to have Spanish products when they return to their places of origin. I now turn to the budget of the State Secretariat for R & D & I, which is, as you know, the one that absorbs most of our ministry's budget. Specifically, this area will receive €4,612 million, 5.2% more than in 2017, which is fully reflected in non-financial allocations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very particular effort by the Government and this year's budget to support investment in R & D+i. This endowment increase and this particular effort in R+D+i will allow the Secretary of State to guarantee all the calls of the state plan in better conditions, to launch new calls such as so-called proofs of concept and, ultimately, to favor the presence of our country in the major international research infrastructures. With regard to IPOs, the public research bodies will also benefit from an increase of EUR 10 million in their budget allocation, which will mainly be used to improve and materialise the wage increases agreed with the public service unions. Ladies and gentlemen, the new State Research Agency is improving its allocation by EUR 30 million to reach EUR 640 million, while the CDTI will receive an additional EUR 20 million to credit and finance the centres of the so-called Cervera Network, one of the main developments in this year's budget. Of the EUR 480 million in Chapter 8, EUR 80 million will be allocated to a guarantee fund to facilitate the application for guarantees by all companies wishing to join. Finally, let me remind you that, beyond the figures, the draft budgets also contain very positive measures for the Spanish science system - and this is an issue on which I would like to make a particular impact. In particular, a job stabilization rate for research staff is included, IPOs are allowed to carry out the pay increases provided for in the Science Act and are exempted from prior intervention - and this is a particularly relevant issue - to projects financed in whole or in part from European funds, which is one of the best news for the Spanish science system for the coming years, especially in view of the expected large increase in the allocations of the new Horizon Europe Plan. As far as the Secretary-General for Industry and SMEs is concerned, the draft budget for 2018 covers an amount of EUR 2146 million, 22.6% more than last year. The bulk of this heading is intended to provide financial support to industry and, above all, to SMEs. In this respect, the key programmes will be: the Reindus programmes, reindustrialisation and strengthening of industrial competitiveness, with EUR 811 million, for investments in improving competitiveness; the digital transformation actions, a key element of any industrial policy today, which will have EUR 100 million; the financing lines for strategic projects in the development of priority sectors, with EUR 135 million; and, finally, subsidies for the acquisition of vehicles powered by alternative energy, which will have EUR 16.6 million. Finally, there are provisions to subsidise interest compensation to modernize the naval sector, with 57 million; to carry out technological projects in the defence sector, with 467 million euros; or to keep Spain at the forefront of European policies in the space sector, with 360 million euros. With regard to the SME sector, a central element of the Spanish economy and of job creation, support for the entrepreneurial initiative is maintained; in particular, through Enisa, which will be able to mobilise almost EUR 99 million in participatory loans, and from the Spanish Reaffirmation Company, Cersa, which will be able to grant guarantees to more than EUR 12 000 enterprises worth EUR 26 million. In addition, the Secretary General of Industry will approve the strategic industrial framework for Spain in the coming years and is also finalizing a specific strategic plan for SMEs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. The adoption of this budget, which includes such a favourable macro-framework for the Spanish economy, is essential for many reasons. It is essential to improve the calls for innovation and research, to implement job improvements for civil servants or to be able to grant aid to thousands of companies, in particular thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. But it is not just that; the adoption of these general budgets is essential to ensure the political and economic stability of our country and to strengthen the image and confidence in the credibility of Spanish economic policy, which has just been endorsed by the European Commission's opinion this morning eloquently, which I would like to thank from this House. This in itself is a value for the country, contributes to continuing to drive our economy and, above all, contributes to the continuation of the process we are seeing of job creation, which is the best response to the social challenges our country has. That is why I call on all groups, also opposition groups that have not yet joined the Government, to support with their vote these good budgets for the Spanish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe first spoke in defence of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u315	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Given the particular characteristics of the interventions of the Joint Parliamentary Group in this budget debate, where many groups, like ours, have only the opportunity to intervene once to defend the entire budget, I must defend the amendments of the members of the Joint Parliamentary Group who do not have the opportunity to intervene in this section. Parliamentary arithmetic has placed New Canarias in a unique position; it has given us the leading role of having the ability to unlock or not certain situations, as is the case with these General Budgets of the State. In view of this compromised situation, Nueva Canarias has assessed the following circumstances. Firstly, it is clear that we have serious ideological and political differences with the People's Party, as we have demonstrated throughout our history, we have demonstrated in this House and we continue to demonstrate in our political practice. It is also true that we are convinced that a blockade of these budgets would not bring about political change, but rather that it would perhaps do the opposite, a worsening of the current situation, and would also allow for the extension of budgets that are clearly weaker than the current ones. On the other hand, we are clear that the Canary Islands has raised problems that we have been claiming here for years and decades in the face of general misunderstanding and now it is an opportunity for us to act on these levels: one, that of systematic abuse in many of the just claims and the other, non-compliance with what has come to be our furthest, our Economic and Fiscal Regime, our status of autonomy, etc. The management of New Canarias has therefore concluded that we should try to negotiate these budgets, which is what we have done. We have raised the issue of the right to connectivity. This is a matter on which we still have to hear some grace from someone who considers this to be a kind of gift, with the added satisfaction that we have helped the people of Balearics and Ceuta and Melilla to conquer this fundamental right. The fight against poverty. Again, in the internationally recognized Arope rate, the Canary Islands has 16 points higher than the state average. Also, the need for economic diversification, the need to support the fight against gender-based violence, as we have stated here in our speech in the debate of the whole. In this case we have to say that our work has been overtaken by the work of a Member whom I have to acknowledge here because it is of justice, and she is the Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Álvarez. She has managed to explain, clarify, transparent the substance of the matter, which is why we told her from the minute we were going to support her just demands. Today there are 200 million euros, as it should be, to make the Pact against Violence effective, as has been claimed. We have supported that initiative and now believe that it will prosper satisfactorily with the support of a vast majority of this House. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u316	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u317	Thank you very much, President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group has tabled 36 amendments to this section, which are intended to complement some of the government's proposals in this budget and, on some occasions, to bring new developments. Beyond these thirty-six amendments, which I take for granted, there are four significant ones concerning retail trade. We understand that this is a priority sector in the Spanish State as a whole and, in particular, in Catalonia. There are approximately 14 specific amendments to fund research centres in Catalonia, whether consortia or universities, which are also a priority. There is one, the most important, of a fund of almost 130 million euros in order to be able to deal, through agreements with local corporations and autonomous communities, with the reindustrialization of the most depressed areas of the whole Spanish State. Beyond all these amendments, for which we are asking for your vote in favour, I would like to comment on some aspects of the budget, Minister. You know our opinion. The deficit targets on the part of the State and Social Security will not be met. Beyond this morning's endorsement, I expected some comment on the presentation that the AIReF made yesterday on these obvious doubts regarding the achievement of the deficit target of the update of the Stability Programme. AIReF's doubts are no longer about the 2019, 2020 and 2021 budgets, but it also incorporates those of 2018, and clearly shows that all these spending measures that have been incorporated into the budget over the last few weeks make it highly unlikely - I delete the word highly - to meet the deficit targets. Also, although in a more nuanced way, it calls into question the fulfilment of debt targets. We expected some comment on this, whether or not they were going to take action. I understand that no action will be taken, but I am sure that we will have the opportunity to analyse these aspects over the next few weeks, even in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs itself. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u318	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u319	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Budget section 27 has received thirty amendments from our parliamentary group, which we maintain and take for granted in the terms of its justifications, which try to show that one could attempt to reverse in part, if not all, this policy of itss aimed at building a productive model based on financial speculation, trade in large areas, low-cost tourism, support for large business corporations and large financial institutions, rather than promoting the productive economy based on SMEs, self-employed people, as a basis for promoting innovation and the internationalization of industry and value-added tourism. For the Parliamentary Group in Esquerra, which I represent, it is more than obvious that budgets are not used to modify those policies, in which the People's Party and Citizens' Government agree, who have gone against the Catalan economy by trying to force reality to give reason to its false postulates. I remind you of two milestones on the Catalan economy, two powerful milestones that have forced us to fight against wind and tide. The first is the unfortunate terrorist attack perpetrated last summer, which cost many lives to people in Barcelona and Cambrils, damaging tourism side by side. It should also be remembered the events of July at Prat airport, when the lack of twenty reinforcement policemen produced kilometre queues of tourists, and how three months later up to 6,000 policemen were displaced to Catalonia to beat up citizens who wanted to vote, with images that turned the world around and clearly also influenced tourism. The second milestone of this year has been the message of the fear spread by its ministers, collaborators and other acolytes, who have not stopped criticizing the attractiveness of the Catalan economy with catastrophic speeches, with false messages, with those fake news that they say they are so much looking for, reports that do not endure a minimally rigorous analysis; all this under a state that not only goes against the model of the productive economy, favoring the companies of IBEX 35 and harming SMEs, avoiding and slowing investments in infrastructures demanded by the entire Catalan economic fabric and the Spanish Levant, but also is destroying the country's capacity for modernization, hindering and hindering the development of the R+D+i system. And with a fact certainly relevant, as is the approval of the well-known Fainé decree; a decree made to measure for the companies of the IBEX, a torpedo designed directly to artificially displace the center of the Catalan economy, which managed that more than three thousand companies moved their head office out of Catalonia, but that it could not end its economic potential. In spite of you, as much as it weighs you, the Catalan economy has gone out and out. By paraphrasing Francesc Pujol, I would say that the Catalan economy always rebounds and survives its illustrious buryers. The year 2017 has been the fourth consecutive year of robust growth of the Catalan economy. It should also be noted that the Catalan economy has systematically grown above the Spanish economy, both in recent years and in recent quarters, coinciding with the most intense years of the process, which shows how an intense political stage has been perfectly compatible with the high rates of growth. It should be recalled that the Catalan economy in recent years has also achieved its best historical figures in exports, in volume of productive foreign investment and in arrival of tourists, which have been accompanied by an extraordinary recovery of the industrial sector and a sharp reduction in unemployment figures. With today's data, exports for the first three months of the year record the best figures in the history of any quarter. We cannot afford any kind of complacency because the economic challenges and, above all, the social challenges ahead are capitalized. Seeing this data, how could such catastrophic scenarios have been drawn for the Catalan economy? In Esquerra we have always criticized the enormous irresponsibility of the discourse of economic fear, a discourse based on subjective assessments of what could happen or, at best, on predictions on a very weak informational basis. See also that the AIReF, surely the most rigorous institution of the state in financial matters, had to self-correct. The ability of any economy to cope with uncertainties is determined by both recent economic dynamics and accumulated assets, the potentialities that have been built and cared for for for years and that allow to have a solid economic structure capable of absorbing temporary shocks, and Catalonia has on many occasions widely demonstrated its ability to overcome adverse situations because it has diverse sources of growth and powerful assets, both in its human capital and in the foundations of the economy, assets that must continue to be cared for and strengthened so that they can be further translated into greater economic and social well-being for all. I had plenty of examples but I only have fourteen seconds left to say that any economic lover - you, Minister, obviously isn't - understands that doing the trilero, confusing cause with effect, using the economy for political purposes, as you have done, forcing and twisting data and twisting extortion cannot with economic reality. You see what's falling on us thanks to the government where you've joined. While the Caixa and Banc Sabadell prefer to move their headquarters out of Catalonia, we get Microsoft and Amazon. Taking care of your contributions, a chollo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u320	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u321	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to defend our group's position on section 27, and the position is one of amendment to the whole. At the same time, I support all the amendments tabled in the explanatory terms. The reasons for the amendment as a whole are diverse. The main thing is that we believe that this budget, as far as the Ministry of Economics is concerned, neither in terms of resources nor in the distribution of resources between the various headings and ministerial areas are those that the Ministry of Economics would need to face the challenges facing the Spanish economy, which, if it is not faced as soon as possible - it seems that they are not being faced - will eventually create chronic problems in our economy that will affect both the growth potential of the economy and the living conditions in which almost one third of the Spanish population is in poverty, the risk of social exclusion and vulnerability, and will endanger the environment that we will leave our children because the energy transition process is not adequately faced. [[The lady]] The diagnosis you have made, Minister, in addition to being overly complacent, marries badly with the annual report presented yesterday by the Banco de España, a report that surprisingly presents many of the elements that we have been defending as characteristic of the Spanish economy so far. By the way, I use the rostrum to remind Mr Linde, who announced in the Committee on Budgets that this report was to be accompanied by a chapter explaining the terms of inequality in our country, that the report surprisingly in the last two decades appears only with three chapters and not with four, because the chapter of inequality has disappeared. It seems that the Banco de España has not wanted to highlight the situation of our economy in terms of inequality. What does the report highlight? I will make mine in terms of underlined and quote the diagnosis of the Spanish economy, which is significantly opposed to what you have told us here. First of all, I confirm - and I say this to the spokesman of the People's Party so that I do not repeat it to myself but to the Bank of Spain - that there have been tailwinds in the Spanish economy, which were quantified in the previous report and which are once again ratified in this one. It's not just the protectionist danger, minister. The report says: 'In addition, a number of factors of a more transitory, though persistent, nature also contributed to the dynamism of recovery'. And those factors are diluting. I close quotes. Monetary policy of the European Central Bank, the expansionary fiscal policy they have failed to implement, the reduction of oil prices and the improvement of external markets. The risk of all these factors and the elimination of some elements also put the growth of the Spanish economy at risk. Secondly, the report says - I am opening quotes - 'The maintenance of high public debt over a long period of time can have a negative impact on economic growth'. I said this in this very rostrum last Monday; the European Commission says this: the public debt in Spain is beginning to be a chronic problem and its diagnosis has gone far too far. Third problem, unemployment. I open quotes: 'Unemployment remains very high, while the quality of jobs created is, in many cases, improveable, given the high temporality, the maintenance of high unintended partiality or the short duration of contracts'. I close quotes. And below it says: 'All this has led to a reduction in the number of hours actually worked' - we have said it over and over again, they refuse to recognize it; there they have it - 'with consequences not only on average productivity, but also on the inequality of labor income'. Talking only about quantity in the labour market and not quality is cheating on the lonely. Fourth point, wages. I open quotes: 'The strong job creation has gone hand in hand with a very modest increase' - a euphemism like any other - 'of wage pay throughout the entire recovery stage. In the average period 2014-2017' - i.e. when the economy was recovering to 3% - 'the annual wage growth per employee in the Spanish economy as a whole amounted to 0.4%. In 2017, that rate was 0.1%'. Economy growing to 3% and wages growing to 0.1%, its recovery, minister. In terms of research and development, the most important chapter of its budget - I am opening quotes -: 'Through the crisis, Spain has widened its gap vis-à-vis its European partners in terms of technological capital, due to lower R & D expenditure on GDP both in the public sector' - its negotiation - 'as, above all, in the private sector'. It continues: 'To the structural characteristics that limit the innovative capacity of companies and to the improved design of the public research system' - its negotiation - 'other more short-term ones are added, such as the weak public budget allocation in the field of innovation' - its negotiation - 'and the negative effects that for the innovative effort of companies derive from the insufficient degree of entrepreneurial competition' - also its negotiation - 'of certain sectors'. I close quotes. And the jewel of the report is reflected on what has been supported by the competitiveness gains of the Spanish economy on which you have built up here. I open quotes: 'In fact, the gains in competitiveness vis-à-vis the euro area have fallen more in the adjustment of wages than in that of business margins. The productivity improvements associated with the severe destruction of employment in the early stages of the crisis and wage moderation throughout the subsequent period have made it possible to restore for the most part the lost competitiveness vis-à-vis the other euro area countries, measured through relative unit labour cost levels.' In other words, competitiveness has been achieved mainly through the destruction of employment, unemployment and wage restraint and a few more factors. It also states: 'The degree of concentration approximated by the market share of the four largest companies in each sector increased by 10 % during the crisis and was reduced by only 0,1 % during the recovery'. We have an economy that sustains its competitiveness over unemployment and low wages and that favors business concentration, with all the costs it has on the economy. So, minister, no, the Spanish economy has not changed, no matter how much they say that you have come to move here so that tomorrow it will come out in the headlines. The Spanish economy is becoming worse and against the workers of this country. [[Applauds]] In our confederal group what we want is more budget for your ministry, because we understand that your ministry has to be at the head of the productive transformation of this country. We need more resources for R & D+i; we need more resources for industrialization and recovery of deindustrialised areas; we need a pact for industry; we need to rescue science - I'm done, President, and I'm not done with your patience, which is almost infinite -; we need a plan to boost the digitisation of the economy and an energy efficiency plan. The amendments that we have tabled are all in line with that and we take them for granted. We would like to see the forthcoming budgets - if there is a case that you continue to be a minister and I, the spokesman for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, could support them more, but in this case we cannot do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero Soler. For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u323	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we too have tabled an amendment to this whole section. The key question for us and from the point of view of economic policy - and that we should all have to do - is what you and the government are doing to make the Spanish economy more resilient to a cycle change. What are you doing so that when you pass that tailwind, interest rises and oil prices rise, the Spanish economy will be resilient. That's the big question. In less than forty-eight hours, four prestigious reports have been published in Spain and Europe which make an amendment to their entire policy and disassembly the government's account of economic policy. The first was yesterday, Cotec, a prestigious report from our country, which states that Spain does not take the R & D and innovation train and that budget implementation is every year smaller. Yesterday's second report is that of the tax authority, which explains that the deficit targets are not going to be met and, therefore, the European Commission is going to require a number of measures, so that this budget we are approving is a wet paper. Moreover, this happens when the economies of the periphery are in the focus of the attention of the markets as a result of what happens in Italy. The third report is from today, from the European Commission, which says that in 2018 the deficit will actually be closer to 3 than 2.2 and, therefore, the European Commission - you have not said this, Minister, you have reserved - says that the government has to take measures for EUR 7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 7 billion, if that is the budget of the Economics Section right now! Therefore, this shows that this budget is wet paper, which does not serve all that they have approved of railings and such... The Government will do two things: it will raise taxes and budget implementation will be lower than in the previous year, which has already been low. The usual suspects, as you know, are R & D, investment in tangibles and intangibles. This is the reality. Third report, that of the European Commission, just at a bad time for the Spanish economy, the risk premium rising. The fourth report is the annual report of the Banco de España, in which many things are presented but there is something that is hidden, which the Government does not say out loud, says out loud, and is that Spain gains competitiveness, gains in exports, as a result of wage adjustment, as a result of an adjustment to workers. In other words, Spain gains competitiveness but it is at the cost of inequality; inequality finances competitiveness and growth. That is what this report says. It says more, something that is not recognized: what the Government has done so far essentially to get out of the crisis, which is, first, to lower wages more than at any exit from the crisis and, secondly, a bank horse concentration. These are the four reports, four to zero, demolitions, disassembly the entire narrative of the Government and of the economic policy of the Government, and they do not answer the question I asked myself at the beginning: what is the Government doing so that when the economic cycle changes, which seems to be changing, the Spanish economy is more resilient? Ladies and gentlemen, the question is how long will inequality increase in order to remain competitive. That has a limit. Moreover, in a tariff war it is inefficient to lower wages because they play with the exchange rate and what you have done there you will lose with the exchange rate. It's inefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, you could tell me, no, the government doesn't care about inequality. No, no, I do not agree with you, the government cares about inequality; it cares about inequality and they hide it. Minister, why did the government representative on the board of the Banco de España ask for the inequality chapter to be withdrawn from the annual report of the Banco de España? Why did you ask? [[Applauds]] On questions from this humble spokesman in the Committee on Budgets, the governor said: Don't worry, Mr Saura, because the inequality report will indeed be in the 2017 annual report. Why did the government want to withdraw this report on the board of the Banco de España? Because they want to hide under the carpet inequality. They do care, but to hide it. And in that sense, Mr Rivera does the same thing, the same thing happens to the Citizens Party: they want to hide the debate of inequality behind the flags. In the end everything is the same, it is right; in the case of Citizens it is nationalist right, but in the end some want to hide inequality under the carpets of the Banco de España and others to hide inequality under or behind the flags. In the background it is the same, right and, moreover, in the case of Citizens, nationalist. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we find - we warn - is that because of the improvisation of the government these budgets will demand, according to what the European Commission has said, EUR 7 billion of adjustment. The European Commission said that today. Then, what has always happened will finally happen: they will raise taxes again to middle income and will cut R & D and investment again. Inequality, Minister, is very important to us, because it is one of the great vulnerabilities of the Spanish economy, mainly for two reasons. Firstly, because it has been the exit from the crisis with the greatest inequality; from all the exits from the crisis in our country, it has been the one that has occurred with the most inequality, and we are the most developed economy, the largest economy with the smallest redistributive policy. Therefore, if we want to grow in the future, if we want to compete in the future, we have to do the opposite of what the Government is doing and, therefore, we have made an amendment to the whole, because equality, the fight against inequality and competitiveness are not in conflict. When there is so much inequality, there is not so much conflict between the two. The fight against inequality and competitiveness are two sides of the same coin. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura García. Mr Gómez García has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u325	Thank you very much, President. Mr Capdevila, I do not know what reports you read from the AIReF, but in the report of 29 March 2018, Catalonia becomes the locomotive of the Spanish economy to the tail van. The newspaper of La Vanguardia says so, let's not say it's very suspicious. Mr Saura, let the Socialist Group come to this House to talk about deficit, I think it is a joke; we should be quiet. I'll talk about the budget. When citizens began to negotiate budgets we were clear that we had to completely change the economic policies of bipartisanism that had led us to the crisis, to a crisis that had severely punished the middle and working classes in Spain, and to consolidate this change of trend that we started in 2017 we set ourselves a series of objectives. [[The Lord]] The first objective was a tax reduction, the elimination of the IRPF for lower incomes. The second objective was to increase social spending, and there had been an increase in pension, dependency and amounts earmarked for the fight against child poverty. The third objective we had was to change Spain's productive model, to move from a brick-based, ball-based and speculative economy to an economy based on the knowledge economy. In order to achieve this change of productive model, we negotiate parties in education, because education is the fundamental pillar and the basis for this change, and there are 50 million for scholarships, 40 million for the fight against school dropout - one of the scourges that our system has - or the check of 1 000 euros per year per child enrolled in children's schools from zero to three years. But in addition, to change this productive model we have negotiated an extra item in this budget of 30 million, which will reach a total amount of 530 million euros, for the Cervera Technology Transfer Network, to better connect the university and our companies and help our SMEs to be more productive and more profitable and therefore to compete better in a globalized world. A further $90 million has been set aside to boost the digital economy and extend the 4G fiber optics to connect us to the future and promote a knowledge-based and innovation-based economy. Subsequently, we have introduced a number of amendments in the parliamentary procedure to improve these budgets. We have tabled a series of amendments to put an end to the greatest burden and the greatest obstacle of the Spanish system of science, which is excessive bureaucracy; a bureaucracy that totally blocks our science and prevents our scientists from engaging in what they have to do, which is to investigate - which they do very well - and that they can implement the budgets that they have approved by absurd rules that do not take into account the importance and specificity of scientific research. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments to eliminate prior intervention, to amend the Contracts Act and that there is an exception for the acquisition of supplies and services by science, to eliminate the requirement for authorisation by the Council of Ministers for certain agreements, to increase labour flexibility. But unfortunately, as we already knew, this government and Mr Rajoy do not believe in science, although without science there is no future. We know that for Mr Rajoy science is not a priority and, therefore, the negotiation has not been simple and we have not achieved everything we would like. We have achieved some improvements that are necessary but not enough. Even so, if we did not approve these budgets, we would not have these improvements for our science system. We have also achieved improvements for innovative companies; fundamental companies for the future of our economy, increasing the deduction for business angels, which have increased from 20 % to 30 %, and an allocation of EUR 500 000 for the Carlos III Institute of Health, to finance predoctoral contracts for biomedical research. A Carlos III Institute of Health, with a trajectory of more than twenty years, is the main public research body that finances, manages and executes biomedical research in Spain. This heading will create a pilot plan that, if it achieves positive results, as we are sure it will happen, will extend to other public research bodies in the coming years. One of the goals we had since Citizens was to end the capitalism of amiguetes, a capitalism of amiguetes that makes them not win the best but those who have better political contacts and that beats our economy by 40 billion each year. To put an end to this amicable capitalism, it is essential to have independent regulatory and supervisory bodies with sufficient autonomy. We already know that some people do not like this and that they prefer everything to remain the same, but, gentlemen of the PSOE, to negotiate the budget, to obtain measures and for the general interest of the Spaniards, for that they do not sit, but, yes, to negotiate the positions of the Banco de España they do sit. They have no remedy. As I was saying, even if some people don't like it, we will continue to fight against the capitalism of friends and that is why we are submitting an amendment to increase the autonomy of supervisory and regulatory bodies such as the CNMV and the CNMC. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Palmer Tous.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u327	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen, minister. The truth is that starting an economic intervention by highlighting the goodness of our growth model is beginning to be repetitive, I know, but it is that we cannot stop doing so, and it is not by triumphalism, as some say, but because this growth, intense in job creation, is key, is essential to explain the meaning of the budgets that we want to adopt these days. Our growth model feeds the virtuous circle of the economy and it is ultimately the one that allows us to incorporate in these public accounts the rise of pensions, the reduction of taxes for middle and high incomes, the improvement of financing for territorial administrations and their social spending policy, etc. A Spanish growth model that we can describe as strong, balanced and sustainable. A model based on the impulse of domestic demand in which, as the minister has said, it highlights the robustness of productive investment generating jobs. This is a clear demonstration of the confidence that the evolution of our economy generates, of the confidence that exists in our future, a confidence that is a key aspect for making such business decisions, but also, how about, for vital decisions, decisions of life projects, such as the acquisition of housing and the assumption of high mortgages, as your lords well know. Also, as the cornerstone of our growth model, the positive contribution of net exports, i.e. of the external sector, has been added in recent years. A positive contribution, I do not want to forget, at a time of economic expansion and dynamism of national demand, which is an unusual and unprecedented fact in the Spanish economy and has been happening for several years and, therefore, it must be highlighted and valued. And this is because of the improvement of the competitiveness of our companies, companies that export more and better, Mr Montero; they export products of higher added value, of medium and high technology, again denying with data the famous mantra of wage devaluation to improve competitiveness. It's not like that. [[Applauds]] This positive development also places us in a scenario of constant and continuous upward revision of the forecasts of our growth by all the national and international agencies that make macroeconomic forecasts, however many try to deny it, and that does not surprise me. An improvement in macroeconomic forecasts that is also consistent with the increase in the quality of the Spanish public debt that has been carried out since January by all credit risk assessment agencies; all of them, ladies and gentlemen. Undoubtedly, this reality is a reflection, it is nothing more than the symptom of a characteristic of our economy that we must be very proud of, which is the confidence that our economy generates, our economic policy abroad. Obviously, that's the case. The economic policy we are implementing in Spain is transcendental to explain the credibility that Spain enjoys abroad and the performance of the Ministry of Economy in its various areas is also vital. I would like to dwell on this point in order to make some reflection which, as has been the case, puts into question many assertions concerning areas as important, vital, such as industry or R & D+i. With regard to the industrial policy of this Government, which some say does not exist, I would like to say that it does exist and that it also seeks to be very ambitious. In our industrial policy we want to emphasize all those aspects focused on improving industrial competitiveness, which is key, as I said, to the Spanish growth model. In our industrial policy we want to go beyond specific requests for small reindustrialisation projects in specific locations. We want to cover more and, in this regard, the People's Party Government is making a great deal of effort to achieve a state pact for industry; a pact that is true that some opposition groups mention, but the truth is that, despite all the facilities given to them and that social actors and industry in general agree, in the end they are positioned in the famous is not, characteristic of Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] It's a strange position, or at least I call it incoherent. On the other hand, in terms of R & D+i, data. The policy framed in the State Secretariat of R & D & I is one of the most increasing, 5.4%, and it does so in the non-financial part, Mr Saura, which is implemented by an average of 98%; an increase thus consolidating its growing path and evidence, on the other hand, the priority this area has for the economic policy of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the objective in R & D+i is to achieve 2% of GDP by 2020, it is true, but we will do so through a greater effort of all. On the part of the State which, by the way, is already demonstrating this, since its investment data are similar to those of Europeans compared to GDP. The autonomous communities must also make an effort, as, by the way, only four of them have an investment in R & D+i above 1% and some of them are governed by those who complain and demand so much. Finally, and not least, through the efforts of the private sector, which, as we all know, has a differential that must be remedied in relation to what is invested in the average of the European environment. I would also like to highlight some aspects that incorporate these budgets and affect the R & D & I area, and I would like to do so, despite the Minister's point of view, because I am convinced that they improve the current situation in our research system. These budgets have introduced a specific improvement to achieve the stabilization of interim staff and that these levels are below 8% by 2020. Amendments have also been made to the adoption of the Royal Wages Decree and, no less important, the possibility of implementing permanent financial control in place of the intervention function has been introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Of the amendments tabled by the opposition, I would like to point out the irresponsibility and lack of rigour that we see in many of them. They are amendments without criteria, highs and lows crossed between programs of different areas of the department, without at all square the amount of the highs regarding the casualties, that is, without any rigours, false amendments, many vases, which only serve for the holder... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u328	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u329	In short, amendments that hide their true intention, which is nothing other than to oppose and block budgets by pure sectarianism and tacticalism, disregarding the undoubted benefits these budgets have for all Spanish citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I am already making progress without making a plebiscite that no one will understand that they are voting against budgets that can allow 15 million Spaniards to see their incomes improved and who knows whether to undertake a life project with a house in the mountains of Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u330	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palmer. We move on to the debate on the state of income. In defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u331	Thank you, Mr. President. In these General State Budgets sometimes it seems that trees do not let us see the forest. These budgets are a rocky forest, almost on the verge of deforestation. Many trees are needed to be acceptable, and that is precisely the opposition's amendments, an attempt to plant some trees in this rocky forest. That is what parliamentaryism is all about. The Government, which is now in a minority, is bringing to this House a proposal for general state budgets and the opposition is putting forward amendments to improve them, but it is being done here, in the Chamber, at the seat of the sovereignty of the people. This is where the amendments are made and it is negotiated here. So, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, do not give us lessons from growing up and doing good politics when you have started your political career in the same offices paid for by IBEX 35 and with the same obscurantism with which the People's Party has done so far. You just want to negotiate with the People's Party. In fact, Compromís we have offered them the opportunity to sit down and talk about all those proposals that affect the Valencià Country, and especially Castelló, which we needed a lot, to see how we could plant some more trees in this rocky budget all those people that we represent the Valencià Country and Castelló. Interestingly, the response of the People's Party and Citizens' Party has been the same: No. Not to the desalinator of Moncofa; not to invest in the regeneration of coasts in villages such as Benicarló, Vinaroz, Peñíscola, Alcossebre, Almazora or Almenara; not to invest in the protection of the Valltorta, World Heritage Site, in Tírig; not to equip sufficiently close the stretch between Castelló and Vinaroz; not to invest in the safety of the N-340. Do you know where villages like Vinaroz, Benicarló, Peñíscola, Alcala de Xivert, Torreblanca, Oropesa, Benicasim, Les Alqueries, Almazora or Vila-real are? Do you know where they are? For all these peoples, thanks to the non-ruling of Citizens and the People's Party, will have to continue to play their lives on an infamous road. Meanwhile, its government partners, Citizens, the People's Party, continue to maintain a toll freeway and negotiate below in offices maintenance tolls for the AP-7 from 2019 onwards. That means that our lives, the lives of the people we live in these peoples will continue to depend on whether we have the money to pay a toll or not. So, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, they come here to teach us lessons and all they do is negotiate with the People's Party, the People's Party of Gürtel, Brugal, the Masters' Party, the People's Party of M. Rajoy and Zaplana. That People's Party is with which you negotiate. Where's the regeneration? Where? PP and Citizens want to approve General State Budgets that forget and despise the people of Castellón, and Compromís has made proposals and will continue to do so. We are here to put on the table everything that can improve the lives of the peoples of the Valencia Country and the people who live in Castellón. Now and we will always continue to plant the seeds necessary for tomorrow's forest to be a little more leafy. [[Greetings in the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u332	Thank you very much. Please ask the public to refrain from applauding or making other signs. They're not allowed in the stands. Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u333	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, I like to discuss this point of revenue forecasting. Given what's going on, I don't know if I like it because I'm a tax inspector and the only offices the IBEX 35 managers have visited were mine when I inspected these companies and demanded minutes, because I've dedicated my life to the fight against fraud - essentially to big fraud and public revenue - or because, as I'm a great fan of science fiction, seeing the amendments of Compromises or the Socialist Parliamentary Group to this revenue-state section I have laughed a lot, as every year. [[applause]] Recalling the obvious and what we should all be clear about, a budget is a forecast of revenue and an authorization of expenditure. Not only are the revenue amendments contrary to the regulation, but they have already been disqualified in the Bureau of Budgets - the government has not disqualified them - but they are simply surprising to me. Here are the speakers of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or of Podemos - from the left, in general - saying that the revenue forecasts are not believed either Perry and, at the same time, they say that we will get 8 billion euros more - as the Socialist Parliamentary Group says - or 9 500 million euros more for corporation tax - although they do not say how - or 900 million euros for the fight against fraud. It must be believed that the employees of the Tax Agency no longer fight fraud because they do not want to, which seems unacceptable to me. Finally, they create a forecast of fantasy revenues and, for example, in the case of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we are talking about EUR 8 billion. Of course, you can present an alternative budget, say that the Spaniards have to pay a lot more taxes and carry specific tax increases to the budgets, but what does not seem to be half serious is to have that money to finance an orgy of public spending whose sole purpose is to say that the parties responsible as Citizens, who in a critical situation support that there are budgets in Spain, oppose all their spending policies. Yes, of course, we have to say where the money comes from, because saying that EUR 8 billion comes out of nowhere is not acceptable. I'd ask for a minimum of seriousness. We've already talked about corporate tax, but let's talk about the IRPF. They say everything is going to be paid for by those who earn more than 150 000 euros. The last one to do this was Mr Montoro at the end of 2012 and 16% of taxpayers who earned more than that disappeared; from one year to another we had 16% less, according to the statistics of declarants. One thing is to say that you are going to raise taxes and another very different question is to collect. Of the useless nationalism of Compromís almost better we do not speak. It is worth talking about the Bildu amendments on the Basque quota and on the Navarra contribution. Basically, what they say is that they do not want to finance a number of services and that, therefore, the quota has to be reduced. I regret to inform Mr de Bildu that, with a quota of EUR 1 300 million and a VAT adjustment of EUR 1 600 million, that quota today is negative and, therefore, they are not paying it. It does not seem to me serious that we should come to the debate on the general state budgets to discuss the Basque quota; if you want, next year we will discuss the Basque quota on the nationalists' account, but, finally, it does not seem to me that this is the way to fix it. In any case, we have learned in this last intervention that the Basque Nationalist Party has made official that it will support the budgets. Of course, they should be thanked for their support for budgets, stability and the Constitution, even though it has had a high price, as well as for their support for the maintenance of article 155. And frankly, in all this the same cannot be said of the Socialist Party, because I do not know in general terms what they are against, if they are against the tax rebate to those who earn less, if they are against the recovery of purchasing power from public employees, you, who lowered us on average by more than 5% - I was then a public employee - and some public employees up to 15% of the salary, or if you are against pensions maintaining purchasing power. Anyway, this is really amazing. One could expect this opposition to everything from Podemos, but not from the Socialist Party. In any case, it seems that these budgets are going to go ahead today. In this regard, I would like to thank of course my own parliamentary group, but also the Members of the People's Party and of the Navarro People's Union, with whom we also agree in the letter that has made Mr Rajoy sign that prison policy has to remain a matter of unity and must be defended within the Anti-Terrorism Pact because it has been an instrument that has made it possible to put an end to ETA terrorism. In any case, in Citizens, like its members of the Navarro People's Union, we believe that a terrorist gang that has not killed seven years ago announces that it will not do so in the future without cooperating in solving any crime, without regret, cannot lead to any kind of prison benefit. [[Applauds]] As I say, I would like to thank the other parties that support these budgets, the Canary Coalition, the Asturias Forum, the New Canarias, the Union of the Navarro People and, of course, the People's Party itself. In Citizens we believe that they are good budgets and that, given the very serious constitutional crisis due to the irresponsibility of separatist politicians in Catalonia who have given a coup d'état, Spain needs budgets, needs stability and needs growth, and this is achieved only by real policies and not by science fiction. This is the policy we do in Citizens and that is why today we will support these General State Budgets in their last vote, because we believe that we must work for the Spaniards and not do science fiction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u335	Thank you very much, Mr President. As far as the state of income is concerned, the 2018 draft general budgets again show deep weaknesses in the government's economic policy. [[Rumors]] As we have already repeated on many occasions, the Spanish fiscal pressure is 8 points below the euro area average, despite the fact that in 2007...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u336	Wait a minute, Mr. González. [[Pause]] This should be the state of the House as a speaker speaks and, if possible, without one having to repeat it permanently. We're finishing a marathon session, see if we can do it right. Thank you so much for the silence. Go on, Mr. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u337	He told them that the fiscal pressure in Spain is 8 points below the eurozone average. However, the income gap in Spain is not only a result of the crisis, but the low collection capacity of our tax system is a consequence of a structural weakness of the Spanish tax system, which has always been characterized by insufficient taxation and with high levels of fraud, evasion and tax avoidance. We see it day by day and it is at the heart of the government party. The last case is that of Mr Zaplana, who took the bites to Uruguay through Luxembourg. How will they be credible in combating tax fraud and evasion if practised by their ex-ministers? And the lords of Citizens, with these new glasses they have recently acquired, I do not know if they allow them to see the defrauders, because they only see Spaniards and do not distinguish between defrauders and not defrauders. [[Applauds]] Many evaders who are holed up in our country's tax system carry wristbands of the same brand as their glasses, but then, when it comes to paying taxes, they are the most anti-Spanish. Moreover, the regressivity that has been deepened in every fiscal reform that the Government has approved means that, while income increases in the eurozone, we are still below pre-crisis income. The draft State General Budgets announces another record of income, just as it announces a record of social expenditure, but the minister cheats on social expenditure, as well as on income, because it refers to absolute figures and not to those relating to GDP. In any event, the precedents for non-compliance in previous general budgets suggest that these budgets will also fail to meet the revenue forecast. Total current revenue collection has already been reduced by 1.2% in 2017 compared to 2016, resulting in a lower availability of resources to finance public policies and the consequent approval of covert cuts through non-expenditure. If we add to this the tax rebates and bonuses that are included in these budgets and that many of them are totally regressive, it is clear that the collection targets in this year's budgets can hardly be met. The last time the government implemented a tax rebate was in 2015, a pre-election year, and it cost the public coffers of this country €12 billion, according to the Finance Ministry. In 2017, with growth and no tax cuts added, they raised 1 billion less than expected. However, in 2018, with lower growth in tax cuts announced, they forecast an increase of 5 billion, which we don't know how it works, we don't know how the government intends to square the revenue figures. While the accounting results of large companies have already reached historical peaks, corporate tax collection is at 1999 levels, and this is mainly due to their regressive tax reforms, which have left companies free to evade taxes. In addition, this year the bonuses increase by 62%, up to EUR 3453 million. This is basically what would cost to finance a guaranteed income so that no household in this country was below the poverty line. There may be some bonus in corporate tax that is exceptionally useful and that serves to reinvest in R & D+i, etc., but the indiscriminate holes that the corporate tax has in our country have no match in the European Union and turn corporate tax into a greasy cheese. This year Mr Montoro entrusts all the additional revenues to the Google rate, and he has already said everyone, including AIReF and Funcas, that they will not raise the 600 million they expect; and that is if they can start it this year, because nobody counts on it. It makes no sense to link pension support, as you do, to a rate like this. The sustainability of pensions has to come from the sufficiency of the system, with a collection of income in general that nourishes the public accounts through, in the case of Social Security, the write-off of contributions and the closing of these totally unfair bonuses. For starters, also closing company tax holes, because, as I said, revenues in this regard have not yet been recovered from when the crisis began. For all these reasons, we have tabled an amendment to the statement of revenue for these budgets which, unfortunately, the Government, with the invaluable cooperation of the Bureau chaired by Mr De la Torre, has vetoed us. The amendment to the statement of income presented by us exposed our tax alternative, in which we discussed how additional income can be collected for a total value of EUR 11.5 billion, dividing it perfectly by each additional tax rate. It would not involve frying the middle classes, as you like, but it would involve fees for financial transactions, tax on solidarity with the bank, issues that are already being raised in countries in our environment, but which you refuse to set in motion because you govern nothing more than for the powerful. In short, the tax model of the People's Party, which is reflected in these budgets and also in this state of income, is based on low taxation, high fraud and low progressiveness. And while he does this, he talks about income records and social spending records, and this is no different from the model of the economic miracle of the Aznar People's Party, which has led Mr. Rodrigo Rato, Mr. Jaume Matas and Mr. Zaplana to go through the dungeons. [[Applauds]] So, gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, I'm just telling you to be careful about the tax model you're defending. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u338	Thank you very much, Mr González. For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u339	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs budgets in 2018. It is good that Spain has budgets, but not any kind of budgets; not budgets that do not solve Spain's problems; not budgets that do not solve our country's challenges; not budgets that do not give our country political stability. Let us speak clearly, ladies and gentlemen, let us speak clearly. These budgets that are going to be approved today what they get is to give Rajoy time. What Rajoy gets is to buy time, ladies and gentlemen, and you give that time to Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Tomorrow the problems of this country will continue to exist; we will have a problem of unresolved social rights, an unjust crisis; tomorrow we will have a challenge in relation to pensions, because the fundamental problem of pensions is not addressed, because R & D is not addressed, the reforms that our country needs are not addressed, and it does not give it political stability. What Rajoy gets is to buy time and the right of this country what they do is give Mr. Rajoy time. This is the reality. And let us be clear, the Government of the People's Party is a government surrounded by corruption; a government that does not have an exciting and future project; a government that proposes a society project that passes through an increasingly smaller social state, that bets on an economy that competes in low wages. And that right-wing project surrounded by corruption is supported and endorsed by Mr Rivera. The right-wings of this country support this budget, they support a budget that does not solve the challenges of our country, of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget is the most important tool in terms of redistribution of wealth; it is the most important element. And the government and Mr Montoro choose, because politics is to choose; and they chose from the minute one, ladies and gentlemen, to make life easy for the powerful, from the fiscal point of view, for the friends of the People's Party and for many members of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Montoro, you have to explain here, in the Congress of Deputies, so that we do not deceive ourselves and that there are no surprises, if Mr Zaplana or if any of the corruption plot has also taken up the tax amnesty, because we can also take a surprise. You can tell me: no, the PSOE is not right about that. What I want to tell you is that unfortunately the Socialist Party has succeeded. We said that the tax amnesty was unconstitutional and ended up being unconstitutional. We said that the tax amnesty was to be used for money laundering and has been used for money laundering. We said it was a tailor-made suit for many leaders of the People's Party and in the end it has been used by leaders of the People's Party. The profile of the corrupt plot - money in tax havens and money laundering - fits perfectly with those who have hosted the tax amnesty. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Montoro, just as when he said that Mr Pujol had taken up the tax amnesty, he has to tell us here if anyone in the plot has taken up the tax amnesty, because that undermines public revenue and has damaged the fiscal conscience of the Spaniards. As fiscal awareness and also public revenue deteriorates, a tax reform that has cost the Spaniards EUR 15 billion, 1.3 points of GDP. Imagine, we have a deficit of 3%, and with that gift at the richest 10%, EUR 15 billion in 2017, we would have a deficit of 2%. Not to mention the nearly EUR 50 billion that large banks can monetise against the Public Treasury as a result of a real Guindos decree. In fact, there have already been two large banks that have gone against the Public Finance and for this year this monetisation may reach 1.6 billion euros. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, what happens is that when there is no public income, the right always does the same: as there is no public income because we have given to the great fortunes because the fiscal conscience has fallen, let us starve the beast - the beast is the welfare state - let us reduce the welfare state. This is the way of the Spanish right and also of the right of the developed world. There is another problem when there is no income, when things are not done right, when there is no tax reform to pay more for the one who has the most and the one who has the most. There's a credibility problem in the public accounts. Today we know that the European Commission says that the deficit target for this year with this draft budget to be approved will be closer to 3% than 2.2%. By the way, Mr Rivera, let's face it, that time is keeping an eye on you, you said here, in the debate on the amendments as a whole, that this year, because there were oranges, the deficit target was going to be met by 2.2%. For the European Commission says that we are going to end up at 2.7%, and the European Commission - this is the most serious - is asking for an adjustment of EUR 7 billion. We are approving a budget which, when approved, needs to be amended by EUR 7 billion, or budget implementation will be small, as always, because at least we will have to get away dangerously from 3%, because peripheral economies are currently suffering as a result of the Italian crisis and the Spanish risk premium is also suffering. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u340	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. And at this very moment it turns out that the Spanish Government proposes a budget that, as it does not do what it has to do, as it does not deal with that tax reform that to the right - to Citizens, to Mr Rivera, to Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro - it produces hives, as a sudden, as they go up in the woods, as they do not have a medium-term project, then there is a deviation from the deficit and a cut of EUR 7 billion. I'm done, Mr. President. Mr. Rivera says that when he goes out on the street, he only sees Spaniards. Behind these General State Budgets there are Spaniards and suffering from Spaniards. There are Spaniards who have no resources, there are Spaniards who have gone very badly in the crisis and there are other Spaniards who have gone very well in the crisis, ladies and gentlemen. And what these budgets need - that's why they don't solve the underlying problem and that's why we don't agree with their model of society - is that the Spaniards who have the most finance, via redistribution of wealth, the welfare state, which is what the Spaniards who have the least need. That is the difference between social democracy, the left, and the Spanish right, which with these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, gives Mr Rajoy time and does not solve the problems of our country or what the citizens of our country need. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bravo Baena has the floor. [[Mr Bravo Baena goes up to the rostrum with the volumes of the documentation relating to the budgets.-Rumores.-A honourable Member: This one does have a printer.-Laughter]] Wait a minute, Mr. Bravo. I imagine that Mr Bravo's speech has raised a lot of expectations, but that is precisely why you should keep a respectful silence. So, if the comments have already been completed, I beg you to remain silent once again. Start.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u343	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen that you have raised expectations. [[Mark the documentation]] Do you know what it is? It is not a printer, it is the spending amendments; not all of them, are those of the group proposing revenue. All this is what you have worked to put in expenses, many expenses. Do you know how much they've done to get income? Do you know what worries them about income? These four folios. [[Applauds]] That's his policy. Its policy is to spend, waste and waste; that is its policy. And this is what you invest time on, thinking about how to get in more. That's the reality. [[Rumors]] I'm sorry to bother you, I do it from the utmost respect. Let us look at the revenue amendments. Here are the revenue amendments from Compromises. It happens that this is the revenue amendment; this is revenue and this is expenditure. Even when they make an income amendment, they put more expense than income. It's your policy, spending more. [[Applauds]] We're not spending anymore, we're spending better. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!]] [[Laughter.- Several ladies and gentlemen make gestures with one hand.-Applause]] Let us focus on the Podemos amendments: EUR 14.8 billion in revenue, a good amount, no doubt. First point. You don't give a damn about the deficit, you don't give a damn about the debt, you don't give a damn about paying. A proposal from the People's Party: why are taxes going to go up to no one? They're gonna look bad on people. If they're not going to pay, if they don't care about the deficit, put in more expenses and that's what we have. That's your proposal, more spending, as always. For what? [[Applauds]] Now, what will happen to you in the short and medium term? They'll wonder what we're gonna do. There will have to be cuts in pensions - does it sound like Greece?-; there will have to be cuts in health; wages will have to be lowered. That's what you'll do. In the end, do you know what it reflects on? In more taxes. You were talking about creating taxes. Article 134 of the Constitution; it is good that they do not believe in the deficit, but that they do not believe in the Constitution... The Constitution says that the Budget Act cannot create taxes. They were also talking about social security bonuses. You will explain to the two and a half million Spaniards who have obtained a job, for example the self-employed, who will not have a flat rate. You will explain to those who have obtained an indefinite contract that you will not have that indefinite contract. You're going to tell the researchers you're not going to get a bonus. You're going to explain this to the workers, see how they understand it, because we don't think you're going to understand it. [[Applauds]] Do you know the difference between a person who is unemployed and a person who has a job? That those who are unemployed draw resources from the budgets, we have to help them all. And whoever has a job pays, provides deductions, VAT, consumption. That is the difference, so the People's Party can do what it does. You were asking me how the minister can lower taxes and raise more. I was asked about the period from 2014 to 2016. A figure for Podemos: in 2014 EUR 174 billion was raised and in 2016 EUR 186 billion, an additional EUR 12 billion was raised, in addition to lowering taxes by EUR 12 billion. I told you, surely the minister - this minister of tail winds - can explain how good management is done. [[Applauds]] We could point to Laffer's curve or we could talk about the supply economy, but surely Mr. Garzón would say that he doesn't believe that. Let's go to empirical data, minister, from 1996 to 2004 already did, from 2011 to 2018 has done it again. It is a clear example that these policies are worth it. Next amendments, those of the PSOE. The PSOE has been more austere, they propose 8 billion euros more revenues. How do they do it? We are going to collect a figure: by raising taxes to those who earn more than EUR 150 000. It may seem like a good proposal, but, look, tax agency data. Do you know how many people in Spain earn more than 150 000 euros? 0.43 %, i.e. virtually no one. What is your proposal summarized in? To raise taxes on everyone, as they have done on other occasions, they have done twice; to raise taxes on everyone. [[Applauds]] I told you last year, your policy is to raise taxes to have a greater chance of spending on aid and subsidies, to have clientelism. We, in the face of that - which is legitimate - prefer that citizens have the money in their pocket and can freely decide what they are spending it on. We did that before and we have done it again now, and that is why we are growing, because that is the policy of the People's Party. Let me give you an anecdote. Olof Palme, Swedish Prime Minister, in a meeting with leftist military officer Otelo. Olof Palme asks: What is your policy for Portugal? And he answers: Ours? Get rid of the rich. And Olof Palme automatically tells him: What a coincidence, ours is that there are no poor people. That is our policy, that there be no poor, not to end the rich, gentlemen, no. [[Applauds]] That is why, in our policy, we have removed the taxes on which they earn EUR 14 000, we have reduced them to those on which they earn less than EUR 18 000, we have helped families with childcare costs, large families with an additional EUR 600, people with disabilities. Helping those who need it most is the People's Party policy. Remember, spend less and spend better. Why are we going to meet the income? Because we have strong, balanced and intensive growth. Because we have been up for fifty-one months in employment and we have been up for seventeen quarters of economic growth, because we are going to create 450 000 jobs and we are going to leave the unemployment rate below 15%, because we have met the deficit so far and we intend to continue doing so. But not only do we care about the state, we also care about its autonomous communities. As comrade Marí told them the other day, we will give them in two years 9 700 million euros. For what? For social policy, for education, for health. That's thinking about everyone, that's thinking about the country. Moreover, it is the budget with the highest social policy. As my colleague Navarro told you this morning, 7 out of every 10 euros are earmarked for social policy. Before entering the last point and being the last member of the People's Party to speak, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Budget Bureau, Mr Marí and Mr Píriz, the deputy spokesman, Mr Paniagua, and the spokespersons, Mr De Olano and Mrs López Ares. Thank you for your effort. [[Applauds]] We are the party that fulfills, we fulfilled when we said that we would lower taxes; we fulfilled when we said that we would raise pensions; we fulfilled when President Rajoy said that this crisis would not leave anyone behind; we fulfilled when we said that we would reach the 20 million people working in 2020; we fulfilled the European Union and our European partners; we fulfilled when we understood the message that we had to negotiate and agree, we did and we continued to do it; we fulfilled when we said that there would be no intervention, that we would resist and that we would take the country forward, we did it; we fulfilled our government partners; we fulfilled and we will fulfil our commitments. We may not be so populist for you, but I want to ask you a question: you, your children, your grandchildren, your parents, your friends, your partners, what do you ask them, whether you are populist or working, whether you are faithful, loyal, fulfilling your commitments? They do, don't they? That is why the objective of the People's Party is to fulfil its commitment to the Spanish. We've done it, we do it and we'll keep doing it. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause.- Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well! Bravo, brave!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Bravo. Finally, there is the debate on the preamble. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u345	Thank you very much, President. Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of the budget debate and this is a good time to take stock. Beyond talking about the preamble, we are finalising this budget debate, Minister, and I sincerely say that this was a budget that we did not like, it was a budget that we understood to have many shortcomings; we have put on the table many amendments, some have been accepted by our group - then I will make a reference to one - and it remains a budget that we do not like, I sincerely say. Is it the same or worse than they presented? No, no, As always, if there are improvements, it is something better. But it is obviously not a good budget from our point of view either for Catalonia or for the whole of the Spanish State. I'm telling you honestly. I'd like to make a few points to my friend Mr. Bravo. Look, all the spending amendments we have tabled since the PdeCAT have their corresponding drop, so it's not spending on spending. You did say a truth. He said you guys aren't much to spend. That in Catalonia is clear, that you don't spend much in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Only budgets and budget implementation need to be seen. And they don't spend much, no, really; they don't spend much. And that is known to Catalan entrepreneurs, who go to meetings and politely listen to the President of the Government and the Minister of Development tell them that they are going to make no idea how many investments and that in close proximity, in raffles, they are going to cover us with millions. And last year, in raffles, they executed 60% of the budget. Therefore, we already know that they are not much spent. A very quick view of the budget, which is what interests us. Is this budget going to meet the deficit targets? No, no, We knew that, and this is the only thing the budgets have gotten worse. Because if you look at the AIReF reports from 15 days or three weeks ago and look at the AIReF report from yesterday, where the report was presented in relation to the revision of the deficit and debt forecasts over the next few years, you can clearly see that the State and Social Security were not going to meet the deficit targets and are going to meet them even less. We were not going to meet the debt targets and we are still going to meet them less, and that must be taken into account. I have also heard in this last speech that over the last two years we have given the autonomous communities 9 billion. First, the 9 billion were not yours, they were all of them; they have not given them; they have applied the Lofca, a Lofca that you and we do not vote for, a Lofca that would have to have a modification of the autonomous financing system that it does not have. Local corporations would have to have a new local funding system that they don't have and this is also a deficit attributable to these budgets. Finally, what treatment does Catalonia receive in these budgets? You can tell me it hasn't gotten any worse, but that's not a diagnosis, it's the realization of a reality; the reality is that it's not being fulfilled with Catalonia and you know it. You know that you are not investing what Catalonia would have to do with your contribution to GDP, your commitments, your promises, the weight of the population or any of the variables that you put on the table. No matter how hard they try - let it be said, by the way, neither the Members of the PP nor the Members of the Citizens' Party in Catalonia try very hard to explain these budgets because we understand that they are difficult to explain - they fail to do so. The amendments that have been incorporated in relation to Catalonia in these budgets have made the situation worse in relative terms. If you compare regionalized investment in the project and approved budgets, the percentage of regionalized investment that is going to be invested in Catalonia is much lower. They are therefore not good budgets for Catalonia either. However, as there is always some positive issue, I have reserved for the end an amendment that we have negotiated and, Minister - you know that when I have to be very critical I am and when I have to recognise the work well done I acknowledge it - I personally thank you for your involvement in an amendment that has allowed the Democratic Party, together with the transaction of the People's Group, to reduce the VAT on dependency services from 10% to 4% for a few thousand dependents who are going to be favored, they and their families, in all those dependency services that receive at least 10% of public funding. We therefore do not like these budgets, but I am grateful for the ability to deal with this one amendment of almost 900 that we had tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u347	Thank you very much. I am speaking only to see what we said at the beginning of this debate on these budgets. Tardà defined them as the budgets of a country without a pulse... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u348	Wait a minute, Mr. Capdevila. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u349	It's not that important either.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u350	Yeah, it's important. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. That was the last item on the agenda and I would ask you, as far as possible, to keep your attention to the speaker. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u351	He said that they are budgets of backs, of backs to people, of backs to Catalan countries, of backs to the productive economy. I believe that we have all worked quite hard in a constructive spirit, that it has been taken with worse or better intention and that, with worse or better luck, it has left us with budgets of backs, of backs to people, of backs to Catalan countries and of backs to the productive economy. I wanted to begin by addressing the Bureau, whose members I would like to thank for their patience also in these budgets and, in passing, to invoke their support for the forthcoming budgets. You already know that 6945 amendments have been dealt with, which are many, all of them with their good intentions, but what I wanted to highlight is that it is not understood that important and millionaire items for the Digital Agenda will be approved while here in Congress, digitisation has gone from Olivetti to Word and little more. I think it would be a good opportunity for us all to learn and to think about digitising these budgets also on an ecological basis. Mr Bravo has just demonstrated this; the amount of paper we consume is enormous, I am no longer saying how fabulous it would be that, in addition, as representatives or as citizens, we could follow up on each of the amendments, see what they are and what the Government is doing with them. A second consideration is thanks to the technicians, to the lawyers, to their effectiveness, to their competence, which is of their own accord - and with them to all the services of the House - but above all to their patience, to their kindness, even at high hours of the night. Thank you, too, even if it seems false, to the fellow speakers of all the parliamentary Budget Groups. I personally have learned from everyone. We must always thank the entities that help us with the amendments, the civil society that brings and takes the opportunity to try to change things. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left must say that it has succeeded in multiplying thanks to the leadership of Joan Tardà and the application of the guard principle of all attacks and all defenses - all means - ; I mean deputies, deputies, assistants, advisers and advisers; all, all, with colleagues and friends, with companions and friends in prison or exile, and striving to be, despite this, propositive, because every moment of anger shares with you. [[laughter and applause]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u352	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u353	President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the end of this long negotiating journey is coming. Finally it seems that an agreement has been reached, and I think it is good for Spain and good for the Spaniards that there is a budget for 2018 with which we can launch a series of public policies that are important. I wanted to start by thanking the extraordinary teams we have in Citizens, both the spokespersons and the technical team, the lawyers and also the negotiating teams of the other parties that have made this possible. This budget is important and I would say that for three main reasons. The first is because Spain is at a time of very special fragility, and that is why it is more important than ever to provide stability and to provide budgets and State accounts that give a signal to the world that progress continues here, even if it costs. Although it costs, because some people make it very difficult for us, we managed to reach agreements. The second, because this budget, however much the mantra is repeated, is the most social budget in a decade. There's not a single cut. Moreover, expenditure items increase, all except debt interest expenditure and unemployment expenditure because there are fewer unemployed. It is therefore a progressive budget, which returns the effort to the citizens, and that is why it is so incomprehensible that the Socialist Party is unable to negotiate these budgets. [[Applauds]] And the third, because you get all that by fulfilling it with our European partners. I think that as much as we promise, as much as they come here with these brutal spending packages, there is no less progressive policy than making an irresponsible budget, and this budget includes all the demands we had, and as I say it will meet the European objectives. Therefore, another important achievement of this budget. But above all this budget is an orange budget, and I will tell you why it is an orange budget. [[Rumors]] [[Laughter]] If you are a worker and earn less than 18,000 euros a year you will pay, thanks to this budget and thanks to Citizens, less taxes. The reduction of the IRPF will affect 3 million families who will pay less taxes, I insist, thanks to Citizens. If you are going to be a parent from the start of this budget in June, you will be entitled to one more week of paternity leave. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u354	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u355	There are already three that we have achieved in just over a year, which will facilitate life, facilitate reconciliation and facilitate co-responsibility between parents in our country. [[Applauds]] If you have children under the age of three you can have access to 1 000 euros to school them, to take them to school. That is also a citizens' demand that was, both in the agreement with the Socialist Party and in the agreement with the People's Party. If you're a cop or a civilian guard and you protect us every day with your job... [[Rumors.-Several Members: No]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u356	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Mr. Roldán, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u357	He said that if you are a police officer or a civilian guard and you protect us every day with your job you will have an improvement in salary, the most important in many years, and that is thanks to the insistence of this parliamentary group that by doing the same job you will cover the same in all places in Spain. [[Applauds]] If you're under 30 and you're young and you fell during the crisis and now you don't have a job, you'll have access to help with training and working at the same time. It is the orange wage supplement that is also thanks to Citizens, and from which more than 500 000 young people will benefit. [[Applauds]] I do not know where the Socialist Party is on these issues. If you are pensioners your pension will rise according to the CPI, and if you are a pensioner and you collect the minimum pension will rise to twice the CPI. If you take care of your family members with a disability you will pay 1,200 euros less taxes a year, and that is also thanks to the tax reform of Citizens. If you are a student and do not have the resources to pay for your studies, you will also multiply your scholarship in this budget. If you have kids who are in ESO and have trouble finishing school... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u358	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u359	...there is also a doubling of funding for our school drop-out programme, which is also for Citizens. [[Greetings from Mrs Villalobos Talero]] If you are a scientist and research, thanks to Citizens, to the transactional amendment that we have achieved, because it is not thanks to others who make up majorities, pre-intervention to IPOs is eliminated and public research bodies and scientists are allowed to investigate without hindrance. [[Applauds]] The constraints of the Contracts Act are also eliminated, and that is again thanks to Citizens. If you are a judge or prosecutor you will also have more funding thanks to this budget, which incorporates modernization for the Justice Plan that defends Citizens. If you like cinema and think you have to promote culture also thanks to Citizens you get to lower the cultural VAT from 21 to 10%. [[Several Members: Well.-Applause.-Applause from Mrs Villalobos Talero]] And if you're also one of the Spanish who do their job and pay taxes, not like Mr. Zaplana or so many other members of the government party, if you're a tax-paying gentleman you'll be happy to see that there's a lot more funding to pursue fraud in this country, and that's thanks to Citizens. [[Applauds]] I do not want to end without sending a very clear message to the Socialist Group. Once the increase in pensions has been incorporated, once we have the plan for 500 000 young people, once paternity permits have been obtained, once we have a plan that will allow for better reconciliation thanks to our support for families with children and decriminalize working women so that they can take their children to day care, what is the Socialist Group's argument? Can you explain what your argument is? [[Applauds]] Some might think that the Socialist Party does not like reaching agreements with the People's Party. It's obvious. The frantism in this country of bipartisanism keeps the country blocked and has been blocking it for a decade. But when debates like the quota arrive, they are able to agree with the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Why do they agree for the coupon, to consolidate the privileges of an autonomous community and the Spaniards we have to contribute to the Basque Country, and instead to lower taxes to the mileurists, to help the reconciliation...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u360	Mr. Roldán, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u361	...and for cultural VAT are they unable to vote on the budget, Socialist Group gentlemen? [[Applauds]] I'm done with this. Just as I said, they are budgets that bring stability, that improve public policies, that draw a different policy of change and progress, and it is a pride for me to defend them in this House. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u363	Normally this last point is used for thanks... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u364	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Wait a minute, Mr. González. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u365	Normally this last point is used for the thanks to all the people who have collaborated in the budgets, but it seems that the Lords of Citizens have an interest in coming at the last minute to hang some medalists, so then we will have to talk about what these budgets are. We are closing this budget debate on budgets that, as we have said on countless occasions, consolidate the cuts produced during the crisis, and lead our economy to a level of expenditure and income on GDP that drives us away from the main countries of the European Union and brings us closer to countries such as Romania, to countries in eastern Europe. In other words, it moves us away from the locomotives of Europe and brings us closer to the less developed countries of the continent. Moreover, they do not serve to bridge the social gap generated during the crisis or to reorient a productive model that is engaged in making the same mistakes that were made in the past, because it is not based on high-value-added sectors. By doing something similar to the enumeration Mr Roldán has used, I will tell you that unfortunately if you are a long-term unemployed without coverage and you have no income, you will not have them with these budgets either. If you are a pensioner who has a pension below the poverty line, with these budgets you will also not have a pension that allows you to live decently. [[Applauds]] If you are one of the 300 000 people entitled to dependency benefit who do not receive any income right now, you will not receive anything after these budgets. If you are a scientist or researcher who is abroad and you have had to leave this country because there were no resources for science and for R & D+i, with these budgets you will not be able to go back either, because they place the game below the European average. [[Applauds]] As I was saying to these budgets, we tabled an amendment to the whole, where we proposed a budgetary alternative that I am not going to break down, because we already explained it at the time with the board, and we also explained to them that it could be put in place as we are already doing in the municipalities of change, where we manage and govern in a more efficient and fair way than you. We then tabled 2,100 partial amendments to these budgets. We are the group that has tabled the most amendments, thanks in large part to the fact that we have people and civil society to help us put forward amendments to the state's budgets. Many of these amendments - in particular 45 from our parliamentary group and 240 from all groups - were totally arbitrarily vetoed by the Government, with the complicity of Mr De la Torre, who is present here, including the revenue amendments. Mr Bravo said earlier that these could be the revenue amendments that were tabled, but these - nothing at all - were discussed, because you yourself vetoed them to prevent a budgetary alternative being put forward in this Congress of Deputies. [[showing a few folios]] [[Applauds]] It is true that these budgets have improved during their processing, but do not hang medallions, gentlemen of Citizens. These budgets have improved thanks to the pressure that thousands of citizens of this country have put on the streets, demanding decent pensions and demanding the financing of the State Pact against Gender Violence, as you yourself approved here in this House, so don't hang so many medallions. [[Applauds]] However, as I was telling you, these are budgets that are not enough, but we must thank the thousands of people who have struggled for these issues that could ultimately be dealt with. All our 2100 amendments to the budgets have been rejected - with the exception of three - with the systematic vote against the Basque Nationalist Party, Citizens and the People's Parliamentary Group; as we say with the vote of the wooden arm or we could also say of the Chinese cat, because they do not even read the content of the amendments. [[applause]] They are directly doing what the spokesman for the budgets of the People's Parliamentary Group tells them and they do not stop to look at what is behind, which will already pass you the bill, Mr de Ciudadanos and Mr de PNV, when you have to talk in your respective territories about the amendments to these budgets that you have voted against. We sincerely believe that these are budgets that are not going to be able to be implemented, that are not going to be able to be implemented. You are already warning the European Commission and also Airef yesterday that the revenue forecasts you put forward do not make up for all the planned expenditure in the budgets. Why? Because you have ignored these revenue amendments which we tabled and which you vetoed in order to avoid discussing them. But we are going to be very much ahead of budget implementation to see where the hidden cuts that will allow them to carry out the budgets, meeting the deficit target, because if they are not going to have a very serious problem with the European Commission in implementing these budgets. Let's see it. Yes, Mr. Montoro, don't be surprised. We will already call on you to appear before the Commission when it is relevant for you to give any explanations you need to give in this regard. Finally, I wanted to thank all the technical staff of the House, especially the lawyers of the Committee on Budgets, Isabel Revuelta and Andrés Jiménez, who have done an exceptional job and have responded to everything we have asked of them. I would like to thank the Members of my group, who have done exceptional work and who have spent a great deal of time working on these 2,100 amendments. I would also like to thank the technical staff of the House, the ushers, who have been so late in the debate in the Committee on Budgets, and the technical staff of my parliamentary group, who are also behind many of the amendments that are being tabled in these budgets. I would just like to conclude by saying that measures must be put in place to prevent the debate on the general state budgets from being subject to the arbitrariness that is constantly taking place in the Bureau of the Commission, the arbitrariness on the part of the Government in exercising the veto, whether we are up to twelve o'clock in the evening or up to two o'clock in the morning debating, as has happened one day, because if, as you have said here, this is the most important law that is being debated in this House throughout the year, we should act accordingly, we should define clear rules, not change the rules in the middle of the game, as you are constantly trying to do, ladies and gentlemen. I expect a little more rigour for next year's budgets, if any, and if not for the next budgets in this House. Finally, I would like to thank again all those who have contributed to these budgets. As they said in The Crystal Ball: you just can't, with friends and friends yes. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u366	Thank you very much, Mr González. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u367	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks we have been debating a new draft budget for 2018, with the same usual speech by the Minister, who is selling us a broken commodity. For those parties that support the government are fairy tale accounts - and it is worth listening to the 'people's' spokesman, Mr Roldán - but I would say that they are the accounts of a fabulist. No year has fulfilled what they promised, neither state deficit targets nor social security, nor income estimates, nor generated inclusive economic growth, have not even fulfilled their agreements with their budgetary partners, but they continue to play their game of generating empty and false illusions. Brussels and Airef tell you: their accounts are not credible, their economic plans lack credibility, they will not meet the deficit target next year 2018. And the Banco de España says: its model generates a wage reduction of the workers and an increase in the business surplus - yes, minister, your labor reform -. You are responsible for that, you PP and your citizens' partners, who intend to whitewash your accounts with some social improvements due to the harmful results of your policies and your ideology. Citizens, I would like to remind you that you voted for the 2017 budget, which raised pensions by 0.25 % and the salary of public employees by 1 %, when inflation was 1.5%. You have harmed 9 million pensioners and 3 million public employees, who have lost their income capacity through their policies; at least they do not presume their policies, be more humble. Mr Roldán, if you do not understand why the Socialist Party cannot vote on the accounts of the right-wing parties in Spain, you can ask Mr Casado - for a quick workshop. [[Applauds]] The Cotec Foundation tells us: they are putting an end to science and R & D+i in Spain, they are putting an end to the future and the productive modernity of this country. They are told by the collectives who are on the street - Minister, walk the street -: pensioners, women, public employees, now judges, and perhaps young people and workers too, because their elitist and unjust policies create inequality and indignation. I ask Mr Bravo, how can you say they spend less and better? How can you say that when you are done with the Social Security Reserve Fund? Please make him look at it. [[Applauds]] And you, Minister, are a lender, a magician. The Minister of Finance pulls rabbits out of the joke. Where they say there is no, there are suddenly resources for pensions, for gender-based violence or to guarantee the votes of their six parliamentarians; that's right, then, if I've seen you, I don't remember, and I don't execute. You're the champion of budget failure. I would like to stress that the Socialist Group has been pertinent in denouncing its failure to comply with the agreements of the Pact against Gender Violence, and has been firm in demanding the EUR 120 million missing from the budget. In the end the pressure was imposed and the Government gave way. I would like to thank the work of all the members of the Socialist Group for their conviction and firmness in combating this social scourge and violence against the macho. Thank you. [[Applauds]] The same will happen with your labour reform, Minister and Minister for Employment. [[The lady]] They will sooner or later understand that it is the cause of so precarious employment, which creates a deficit in social security. It is a profound injustice for our young people, for the most vulnerable groups in the labour market and for workers. If they still resist their repeal, at least they raise their voice, as presidents of autonomous governments have done, and ask companies for an effort of solidarity with society to contribute, as far as they are concerned, to their collective improvement and to raise wages. They ask companies to raise wages. We're talking about ideologies. This draft budget of the right-wings of this country, which consolidates a neo-liberal and conservative model, will be approved today because it has a parliamentary majority in its favour that defends an ideological anti-social, unjust and credibilityless budget project. It is a project that diminishes the welfare state, which reduces the relative weight of essential public services, education, health, social protection, dependency, in relation to nominal GDP. It is a project that has traded with the rights of pensioners, current and future, to have a decent public pension. It is a project that condemns this country to an economy that competes through low wages, rather than competing through the generation of high value-added products and the creation of quality jobs. It's a project that's not credible, that's full of traps. It is a project of a raccoon government, but real raccoon, Minister, especially with the most vulnerable. He has fought with pensions, he has fought with widows and continues to do so, he has fought with the Pact against Gender Violence,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u368	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u369	...is waging with the funding of the autonomous communities, which provide public health, education or dependency services. It's raccoon, Minister. But the value of the arguments is worth less in numerical terms than that of the votes. We have defended the value of parliamentary debate and the confrontation of different political projects, despite the government's vetoes. We are talking about the value of the work and the effort shown by the Socialist Members, and the willingness to oppose the arbitrariness of the Government and its partners. I would like to express my thanks, first of all, for you and your colleagues, and in particular for those we have shared hours and hours in the Committee on Budgets. I thank you for the work, effort, coherence and loyalty in defending the socialist project. Thanks, also in capital letters, to the advisers and assistants who have worked so that we could present and defend almost two thousand amendments, and of course also to the press service. Thank you very much, comrades and companions. [[Applauds]] I would also like to highlight the good personal relations between the members of the various groups of the Committee on Budgets and thank them for their shared work. I would also like to thank the services of the House, and in particular the stenographers, to whom we condemn working in the Committee on Budgets until almost two o'clock in the morning, for the lack of respect of this government by sending last-minute vetoes, and also the lawyers, Andrés and Isabel, and the journalists in this House, without which this debate would be closed between the four walls of this Parliament. Finally, I would like to transfer my support to all the journalists who cover the current political situation, which is resulting in a job risk activity in this country. You are essential to improve the quality of our democracy. Thank you very much. I conclude by saying that we have worked hard and that we will continue to work to win the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u370	Thank you very much. Mr De Olano Vela has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u371	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As is traditional, I would like to start my speech, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to thank the services of the House and especially the lawyers for their magnificent work over these months, without which it would not have been possible to approve these General State Budgets. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, after more than sixty hours of debate between the Commission and the plenary, the existence of two well-differentiated blocs in this House has been credited; on the one hand, those who seek stability, and on the other, those who seek instability; those who seek to boost economic recovery and those who only seek to put sticks on the wheels to economic recovery; those who seek and want recovery to reach all Spaniards and those who prefer this not to happen. The People's Parliamentary Group wishes to publicly express its gratitude to Foro Asturias, Nueva Canarias, Citizens, PNV, Unión del Pueblo Navarro and Coalition Canaria for their support to these budgets. Mr Roldán, it is not about medals, it is not about demands, it is about negotiation, dialogue, agreement, and finally approving these budgets. [[Applauds]] If you haven't understood that, if you haven't understood it, then you've understood between little and nothing. These seven political groups have opted for stability and recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards knew - and I told them in the whole debate - that they could not count on the left when things were wrong with them, and that is why they always resort to the People's Party. Now you also know that when things go better you can't count on you either. Ladies and gentlemen, our unemployed know that the left puts the no and populism before the creation of half a million jobs that will be generated by these General State Budgets. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our elders know that the left prefers to remain in demagogy to raise pensions to nine million pensioners. Our middle classes and families know today that the left prefers ideology to lower their taxes. Public workers and the State Security Forces and Corpses now know that the left is putting its party interests ahead of them to raise their wages as never before. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finalizing, and I would like to do so by thanking the Government in general, but especially its President, Mr Rajoy, because he has given proof with these state budgets of his ability to build great consensus. He did so last year by building that great agreement between seven political groups, and he has given it again in these 2018 getting the support again of seven political groups. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank the entire team of the Ministry of Finance, some of them present in the House, but especially Minister Montoro. Minister, you have been able to do well to draw up your 14th General State Budgets. That is already an achievement in itself, but what is most important is that after each and every one of them the Spaniards have seen their situation improve, and that deserves the recognition and gratitude of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my gratitude and appreciation to each and every one of my colleagues in the People's Parliamentary Group, as well as to the technical team, for their magnificent work over these months. Once again you have shown your professionalism, and above all - and for the second year in a row - your generosity in renouncing those local amendments that receive easy applause for the sake of achieving a higher common good, such as improving the well-being of all Spaniards, and that deserves my thanks and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that with these General State Budgets, the General State Budgets presented by the People's Party Government in this House, we continue to improve Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u372	Thank you very much. In five minutes we shall vote on the remaining sections of the budget. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Let's start the vote. We shall begin with the vote on section 13, Justice. Firstly, amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. We will vote on compromise amendment 75 to Amendment 1047. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes; 347 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u374	It's approved. Amendment 1262. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 164 against, 177 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u375	It's rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, Amendments Nos 6022 and 6023. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 103 against, 180 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u376	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u377	They're rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment No 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u378	It's rejected. Amendment 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 20 against, 262 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u379	It's rejected. Amendment 50. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 87 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u380	It's rejected. We now vote on the amendment by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment 4255. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u381	It's rejected. We voted on the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendment 1351. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 174 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u382	It's rejected. Amendment 1352. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u383	It's rejected. Amendment 1353. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 180 abstentions, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u384	It's rejected. Transactional amendment 76 to amendment 1354. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 343 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u385	It's approved. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 175 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u386	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the text of the opinion in Section 13, Justice. We voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 179 against 168.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u387	The text of the opinion in section 13, Justice, was adopted. We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to section 18, Education, Culture and Sport. We voted on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. Firstly, compromise amendment 37 to amendment 5790. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 244 against, 91 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u388	It's approved. Transactional amendment 51 bis to amendment 5791. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 327 against, 8 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u389	It's approved. Transactional amendment 52 to amendment 5770. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 328 against, 8 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u390	It's approved. Transactional amendment 53 to amendment 5792. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 259 against, 8 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u391	It's approved. Transactional amendment 54 to amendment 5789. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 327 against, 9 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u392	It's approved. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 327 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u393	They're approved. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to vote on the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. Firstly, Amendments 1182, 1184 and 1195. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u394	They're rejected. Amendment 1190. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 175 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u395	It's rejected. Amendment 1191. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u396	It's rejected. Amendments 1196, 1197 and 1208. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 258 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u397	They're rejected. Amendment 1206. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 85 against, 177 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u398	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u399	They're rejected. We shall now vote on the amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, Amendments Nos 6287, 6288 and 6310. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u400	They're rejected. Amendments 6293 and 6295 to 6306. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 99 against, 178 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u401	They're rejected. Amendment 6294. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u402	It's rejected. Amendments 6334 and 6463 to 6476. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 244 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u403	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u404	They're rejected. We are now voting on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour 171 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u405	It's rejected. Amendments 479, 513, 549 and 569. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 261.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u406	They're rejected. Amendments 485, 492, 493, 495, 499, 506, 571, 604, 613-620 to 624, 627 to 631, 633 to 635, 641, 646, 650, 653, 655 to 658, 660, 661, 676, 687, 688, 695, 699, 707 and 715. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 25 against, 259 abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u407	They're rejected. Amendments 526, 530 and 632. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u408	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 86 against, 258 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u409	They're rejected. We now vote on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendment No 4931. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 164 against, 175 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u410	It's rejected. Amendment 4933. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 78 against, 176 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u411	It's rejected. Amendment 4935. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 162 against, 175 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u412	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 79 against, 176 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u413	They're rejected. We are now voting on the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendment No 2089. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 170 against 176.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u414	It's rejected. Amendments 2104 to 2144, 2277, 2278, 2281 to 2285, 2287 to 2289, 2291 to 2296, 2298 to 2300, 2302, 2305, 2306, 2308 to 2313, 2322 2325 to 2327. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u415	They're rejected. Amendment 2177. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 85 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u416	It's rejected. Amendments 2205, 2206, 2210 to 2219, 2233, 2236, 2245, 2246, 2279, 2280, 2286, 2290, 2297, 2301, 2303, 2304, 2307, 2314, 2315, 2324, 2328 to 2332, 6923 and 6924. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u417	They're rejected. Amendments 2207 to 2209, 2267 to 2269 and 2271 to 2274. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 109 against, 176 abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u418	They're rejected. Amendment 2264. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 83 against, 186 abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u419	It's rejected. Amendments 2265, 2323, 2266 and 2270. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 101 against, 176 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u420	They're rejected. Amendments 2275 and 2276. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 82 against, 176 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u421	They're rejected. Transactional amendment 40 to amendment 3219. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u422	It's approved. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 159 against, 176 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u423	They're rejected. We shall vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the text of the opinion in Section 18, Education, Culture and Sport. We voted on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour 176 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u424	It was adopted. We now turn to Section 23, Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment. Firstly, amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo. Transactional amendment 66 to amendment 5727. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 258 against, 78 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u425	It's approved. Transactional amendment 63, presented to amendment 5731. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 259 against, 76 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u426	It's approved. Transactional amendment 62, presented to amendment 5741. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 259 against, 7 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u427	It's approved. Transactional amendment 57, presented to amendment 5742. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 262 against, 8 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u428	It's approved. Transactional amendment 68, presented to amendment 5743. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 258 against, 8 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u429	It's approved. Transactional amendment 61, tabled to amendment 5746. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 260 against, 8 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u430	Transactional amendment 65, tabled to amendment 5757. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 260 against, 7 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u431	It's approved. Transactional amendment 60 presented to amendment 5764. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 326 against, 9 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u432	It's approved. Transactional amendment 64 to amendment 5772. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 258 against, 9 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u433	It's approved. Transactional amendment 59 to amendment 5778. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 260 against, 9 abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u434	It's approved. Transactional amendment 56 to amendment 5779. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 259 against, 8 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u435	It's approved. Transactional amendment 58 to amendment 5795. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 259 against, 8 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u436	It's approved. Transactional amendment 55 to amendment 5796. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 328 against, 8 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u437	It's approved. Transactional amendment 67 to amendment 5797. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 260 against, 8 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u438	It's approved. We are now voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. Firstly, Amendments Nos 1255, 1317 and 1318. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 175 abstentions, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u439	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 175 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u440	They're rejected. We are now voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. Firstly, Amendments Nos 6494 and 6498. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 176 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u441	They're rejected. Amendments 6495 to 6497, 6503, 6545 and 6547. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 170 against, 175 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u442	They're rejected. Amendments 6499, 6508, 6560 and 6561. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 175 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u443	They're rejected. Amendments 6550 and 6614. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 245 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u444	They're rejected. Amendment 6651. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u445	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u446	They're rejected. We voted on the amendments by the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group. Firstly, Amendment 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u447	It's rejected. Amendments 788, 790, 878, 879, 883, 884, 889, 893, 896, 897, 933 and 934. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 108 against, 177 abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u448	They're rejected. Amendment 864. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 100 against, 245 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u449	It's rejected. Amendment 886. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u450	It's rejected. Amendment 895. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 26 against, 176 abstentions, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u451	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u452	They're rejected. We voted on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Firstly, Amendment No 5073. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 170 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u453	It's rejected. Amendments 5076, 5087, 5097 to 5099, 5157, 5158, 5160, 5161, 5163, 5167 to 5171, 5174 to 5176, 5178 to 5180, 5188, 5189, 5191, 5193 to 5199, 5201 to 5203, 5206 to 5208, 5218, 5247, 5272, 5276, 5278 to 5281, 5286, 5292, 5293, 5296, 5299, 5300, 5314, 5322, 5329, 5338, 5365, 5388, 5401, 5402, 5404, 5405, 5407, 5411 to 5416, 5419, 5420, 5424 and 5425. [[Applauds]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 80 against, 172 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u454	They're rejected. Thank you very much. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen. Amendments 5078 to 5082, 5084 to 5086, 5145, 5149, 5212, 5225, 5291, 5294, 5344, 5349, 5351, 5353, 5356, 5358, 5378, 5390 and 5391. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u455	They're rejected. Amendments 5159, 5164, 5354, 5355 and 5357. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 88 against, 176 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u456	They're rejected. Amendments 5210, 5211, 5213, 5226 to 5229, 5234 to 5236, 5297, 5298, 5303 to 5305, 5308 to 5313, 5316, 5317, 5332 to 5335, 5340 to 5342, 5367 to 5369, 5374 to 5376, 5379 to 5381, 5418 and 5422. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 87 against, 258 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u457	They're rejected. Amendments 5230, 5306 and 5315. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 86 against, 259 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u458	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States PodemosIn Comú PodemosIn Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 165 against, 180 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u459	They're rejected. Let us move on to the Socialist Group's amendments. Firstly, Amendment 2447. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 168 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u460	It's rejected. Amendments 2448, 2454 to 2459, 2488 to 2490, 2493, 2512, 2514, 2515, 2517, 2518, 2520 to 2538, 2540 to 2566, 2569, 2571 to 2588, 2591 to 2595, 2597 to 2603, 2607 to 2633, 2661 to 2665, 2667 to 2671, 2674, 2676 to 2681, 2683 to 2695, 2718 to 2721, 2723 to 2726, 2728 to 2730, 2732, 2733, 2736 to 2747, 2749 to 2754, 2760 to 2781 and 2794. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u461	They're rejected. Amendments 2449, 2450, 2462, 2473, 2474, 2476, 2480, 2486, 2494-2510 and 2604. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 169 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u462	They're rejected. Amendments 2470 and 2648. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 92 against, 176 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-23-CD180523.u463	They're rejected. Amendments 2491, 2589, 2672, 2673 and 2675. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 92 against, 244 abstentions, 10.
