ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to include as the last item of the Thursday session the request for an extension of one month from the deadline granted to the subcommittee for the elaboration of an artist's statute, constituted within the Committee on Culture, for the completion of its work. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u2	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the item on the debate on the whole of the State General Budgets Bill for 2018. First, and for the presentation of the bill, the Minister of Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u3	Madam President, Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House today to defend the draft of the Government of General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. These are budgets that reflect the current moment of recovery of the Spanish economy and that distribute the fruits of that recovery among millions of Spaniards, among a large group of Spaniards. These are budgets that highlight their deeply social vocation. It is the budgets that insist on our commitment over the last few years to budgetary stability in order to continue to feed economic growth and job creation. The clear objective we are pursuing is to close the legacy of the economic crisis throughout the current legislature and open a new stage of greater prosperity and well-being for all Spaniards. These are budgets that certainly arrive late in this House. The delay I have already had the opportunity to explain in the Committee on Budgets, there I made it clear that it was due to the serious institutional and constitutional crisis created by the Generalitat de Catalunya and, in particular, to the positions of certain political formations. Ladies and gentlemen, I am prepared today to defend this draft budget with the same conviction that I have defended each of the projects that President Rajoy's government has brought to Parliament for six years now - precisely it was also in April 2012 when, with the presidency of Mariano Rajoy and his governments, this stage began - with the same conviction and even greater if it can be because today we can show the endorsement of what the previous budgets have brought and generated for the economic policy that we have developed over the years. They have had results and they have worked as we wanted, despite the fact that there were many who did not believe in them and even now they have difficulty recognizing those results. Indeed, from the work that we have done in the last six years and from the immense strength that Spanish society has today Spain takes on one of the most hopeful scenarios of the future in its history. In the years 2016 and 2017 we already reached the level of GDP that we had before the crisis and specifically in 2017 we exceeded in GDP per capita to some of the major partners of the European Union. But it is that today economic growth is underway that is the strongest, the healthiest in our history, the one we have ever seen in our country; economic growth that translates into job creation and economic growth based on a positive external sector, on a positive current account balance after six years - this will be the seventh year in which we will record that positive current account balance -. This is a budget that is based, that promotes economic growth with economic agents, with companies in the best financial situation in the economic history of Spain; in short, a budget that contributes to Spain generating confidence within and outside our borders, which means that we are recording historical maxims in foreign investment in Spain, historical maxims in international public debt holders. Therefore, trust in our country and also historical peaks in the investment of our companies abroad, which, together with that display of export capacity that the Spanish company is doing, makes it possible today to say from this rostrum that the Spaniards have before us a chance of prosperity that very recently seemed impossible, because the only thing we saw was economic crisis, desolation and loss of confidence generated by that economic crisis. Today it is in our hands, in that of the Spaniards and in that of their political representatives, the people who occupy these seats today, taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the economy and building for the next few years the most prosperous Spain we have ever known. That is the real opportunity and that is what the spirit and content of the budgets respond to. And how is it possible that the minister could bring to the rostrum a budget of this nature when a few years ago we were killed and almost yesterday we left the ICU? Because we have never, as we have now, managed to create such economic growth, domestic demand growth with growth in the external sector with a positive balance. When we did that in Spain it was through devaluations, and now those devaluations, since we are members of the euro, are not possible. We have economic growth with relative price stability and, as I said before, we have companies, a business fabric that is more financially consolidated than ever, with more international presence than in previous stages and therefore with more export capacity marking those export ceilings on the gross domestic product. But we also have a highly modernised public administration, both in its functioning, through an intense process of digitisation, and in its work organisation, following a process of job stabilization to reduce the temporality in the fundamental sectors and an increase in its replacement rate. We have territorial administrations that have regained their budgetary stability and have more resources for the provision of public services in the welfare State. Today we also have a labour market, thanks to the labour reforms that we have undertaken, much more efficient, which brings collective bargaining closer to the reality that our companies are experiencing, and that is what is making it easier for us to have this intense job creation, an employment of an indefinite nature as shown by all the statistics, starting with the labour force survey, and what is allowing us to deal with improvements and agreements, such as that of the interprofessional minimum wage, an agreement signed between the Government and the public service unions, or agreements between public administrations, municipal governments and the Government of Spain, such as the one recently endorsed by this House; in short, agreements that allow us today to have an economic role in a Europe committed to consolidating its future as a space of coexistence, wealth and well-being. That is the Europe we have always longed for and the Europe for which we must continue to fight against the populisms and exclusionary nationalisms that want to weaken it once we are overcoming the convulsions caused by the economic crisis. Today we bring to the House a bill that is credible because it has the credibility of a government that in six years has stopped the recession to turn it into growth; in six years we have stopped the fall, the destruction of jobs - really a destruction of brutal jobs, as we had never known in the history of Spain and as no country in our environment has known - to turn it into the creation of 2,351,000 jobs, after increasing social security membership in 2017, the last exercise, in more than 600,000 people, already exceeding the levels of indefinite employment that existed before the crisis and predicting for this year - that is what the budgets bring and that is our bet - the creation of 475,000 new jobs in terms of national accounting. I also defend this budget from the credibility of a government that has reduced the public deficit from 9.3% in 2011 to 3.1% in 2017, protecting social spending throughout that journey. This government last year devoted 40% more to social protection than in 2007 in terms of national accounts and this year presents budgets that directly devote more money to social spending than ever before; never have the budgets that the governments of our democracy have presented - well, and with the previous ones it has no comparison - dedicated to social spending 196,782 million euros, 56% of the total expenditure, increasing pensions in this bill by 5188 million euros, to reach 144,834 million euros, and increasing - as I will also describe later - more public resources, more public revenues to finance the welfare state. I am talking about health, education and other social benefits. I also support this draft budget from the credibility of a Government that has worked closely together and understood that the State of self-government was all of us. There are no isolated administrations between us. The state of self-government, which plans and provides for our Constitution, is the one that supports all the public services of our country, and the Government has made available to it €269 billion, of which about 100,000 has dedicated them to paying suppliers, because it is very easy to govern, to spend and not to pay. This they know how to do some great and we're never going to take that rating off the ranking. The Government has enabled the necessary resources to pay these suppliers and to meet the debt maturity of the vast majority of the autonomous communities of Spain, which, thanks to this debt restructuring, have been saved in their budgets from 2012 to 2018 no less than EUR 34,389 million in its chapter 3; that is, they pay no interest, they have an interest reduction of EUR 34,389 million, which are in the budgets of our autonomous communities and they are financing the part of the welfare State that depends on these autonomous communities. This is also the case for local entities, which have been saved in lower interest rates of the order of EUR 1070. We are also the Government that has guaranteed by law respect for budgetary stability, which has served to clean up the accounts of all public administrations, for the autonomous communities to meet their deficit objective today and for the state of self-government to regain its credibility, prestige and viability, because it was not true that the problem of the crisis in Spain was the state of self-government. Today, with the figures in hand, that can't be sustained. Well, you can't hold it seriously, because holding it is already known to hold it all. But there are the figures; there are the figures for the stability commitment and there is the achievement of those objectives. I also support this draft budget from the credibility of a Government which has taken better advantage of the opportunities offered by the international scene than any other in Europe, which has taken better advantage of the opportunities offered by the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, because that policy was for all countries, and it is the Government of Spain with its budgetary policy, with its structural reforms, with banking reform, with labour reform, with energy reform, with the reform of public administrations, that is the Government of Spain - I repeat - which articulates the procedures for such a favourable monetary policy to be translated into economic growth, translated into job creation and translated into new resources to finance the State in all its actions, but also into new resources, especially for the welfare State. This is how Europe is built, taking advantage of the opportunities that the European institutions themselves offer us. Because the tail winds - those famous tail winds - blew for everyone, I say. Or were they blowing just for the Iberian Peninsula and for its 2000 km extension below, for the Canary Islands? They were blowing for everyone and someone made us really be able to take advantage of those tailwinds and translate them into the improvement of the Spaniards, and that is responsibility for economic policy and responsibility for budgetary policy. And, of course, I defend this draft budget from the credibility of a Government that has achieved what we had not achieved in the previous stages of our history: that all growth goes to job creation; that is essential, that is most important. Since the first quarter of 2013, a point of lower employment in both Spain and the euro area, and until the fourth quarter of 2017, 8.93 million jobs have been created in the eurozone. Of this job creation, Spain accounts for 22%, thus contributing 1.93 million jobs, from people who previously did not work and now work, to that great common project which is Europe. I also support this bill since the credibility of a government that has improved the revenue of the State year by year, enabling us to reduce the deficit even with modest increases that are still compatible with our economic policy. The autonomous communities will receive with this bill the greatest funding they have had in their history and this bill also houses a tax reduction to the lowest incomes, as we already did in the years 2015 and 2016 and now we continue to do, while increasing public money to strengthen public services and public investment itself. And, of course, I bring a negotiated draft law, agreed in its various fields; agreed - I mentioned earlier the agreement - between the government and the trade unions, the social partners, in this case the employer, for the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. Also, in the matter of Public Service, we bring a content, an agreement signed with the major public service unions, an agreement that concerns not only 2018 but the next two years, an agreement that therefore extends to the whole of the legislature, and an agreement, as I also mentioned earlier, with the municipal governments so that, in fulfilling the objectives of budgetary stability, they can dedicate their surplus also to improving the public services that are so fundamental to the well-being of citizens. I finally defend this bill with the credibility of a government that, being in minority, we were able to find the agreements for last year to approve, on the one hand, the General Budgets of the State - those of 2017 - and, on the other hand, the so-called ceiling of expenditure, the first step for the elaboration of the General Budgets of the State that we are presenting today in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic content of the budgets concerns the objective of distributing the benefits of economic growth. The State promotes, generates these benefits through the outcome of its economic policy in terms of economic growth and job creation. It is the creation of employment that is the best result of economic and budgetary policy and what makes genuine equality of opportunity in society, because when there is no work, when there is no employment what there is is a great social failure and that is what we are being able to change with policies, with the reforms that we have adopted these years in this House and of course from the formidable initiative that our entrepreneurs, the self-employed, the small and medium-sized enterprises, the larger investors - the national and the outsiders - and, of course, the workers, who have known how to be responsible enough to be able to generate this climate of confidence that is already being translated into such important job creation today. But there is another part of society whose income depends exclusively on the general budgets of the State. We are talking about 13 to 14 million people who cannot generate these incomes and who will not perceive the welfare that is being generated through economic growth and job creation if it is not through State budgets. The great attention given by these State budgets is therefore directed to those 13 million people, whose incomes are going to be clearly improved in these budgets. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u4	Quiet, please. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u5	Thank you, Madam President. It is normal that with an approach like this there is a certain distraction in the House. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I apologize, but it's just that this budget thing is so important.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. One thing is to be distracted and another is to talk. Go on. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u7	He said that these are the budgets for those millions of people, of families whose incomes depend on the approval of these General State Budgets. They are budgets for officials, budgets that promote their recognition throughout this crisis for their efforts to overcome it. The availability of public services in our country and in any developed country in the world depends on the knowledge of officials, their commitment and their professionalism. Without them, the orderly functioning of any of our activities would not be possible, nor would the economic recovery and consequent job creation be possible. These budgets are the result of the agreement reached between the Government and the major public service unions to schedule an increase in salaries, an increase in staffing and the stability of employment in the public service that ensures for this year, 2018, not only a recovery of the economic capacity of civil servants, but also a higher quality in the work they develop for the good of all. These are budgets that increase the salaries of the Public Service and the salaries of the State Security Forces and Bodies, with which we have a outstanding debt that we want to meet and resolve in this first budget. Following this negotiation by the Ministry of the Interior with the police unions and the Civil Guard groups, these budgets bring a special increase, as the beginning of the equalization of their salaries with those of other police officers who carry out their function in autonomous communities. And also - I said - are budgets that will attend to the improvement of the quality of the work that our officials do in this area. These are the pension budgets, because in them we have programmed an increase of the same, an increase that for a large part of the pensioners means the overcoming of the rate of revaluation of their pensions. That's what we do with this budget bill, an amendment. I would like to stress in the House that pensions are the great channel of solidarity between the Spanish, that social contract between generations that makes it possible for us in our country to speak with ownership of social cohesion. Pensions are recognition to those who worked before and did so under very difficult conditions. These pensioners therefore need to have the peace of mind that they are going to collect their pensions, as they have done so far, and that they are going to be updated as Spain's economic capacity increases. They are a generation that has done a great job for our country, is the basic generation for our current economic development, is the generation that makes the political transition, is the generation that, to a large extent, with its work developed outside Spain, has made a great contribution to what is today Spain. We must therefore convey to them the confidence that the pensions of the present are not in danger, that one thing is that a subsector of the State Administration, such as Social Security, is in deficit and another thing is to confuse that - as some are interested in doing - with the danger of paying the pensions now and in the future. It has already happened to us before, we had this debate in this House in 1990 and it culminated in the Toledo Pact, which came to mean that pensions came out of the political debate in our country, that pensions were going to be paid. Remember that when we signed that Toledo Pact, there were many experts outside this House who said that in 2000 pensions would not be paid. And in 2000 they were paid because sufficient employment was created for collection, for contributions and even for the creation of the Social Security Reserve Fund by the second government of the People's Party. That is what has to be taken into consideration today that, although it is clear that we have to worry about the social security deficit, one thing is for us to take an approach to dealing with that deficit and another is for the mistrust of current and future pensioners to be conveyed. It must be said quite clearly: pensions are going to be paid in Spain and what guarantees them is not the income of Social Security, they are guaranteed by the State. That is what this draft law on State General Budgets contains, which we are increasing pensions for millions of pensioners, and that is what the State is doing. That is one of the obligations that we must fulfil in the Parliamentary Committee on the Toledo Pact, in which we must make proposals that will even improve what is contained in this draft State General Budgets Act today. I would also like to refer to the IRPF rebate. These budgets bring a reduction for workers with lower incomes, because they include a tax reduction for incomes of up to EUR 18 000 gross per year in the IRPF. This reduction in itself benefits almost 1 million pensioners and another 2.53 million taxpayers who have a gross salary of between EUR 12 000 and EUR 18 000 per year. It should not be forgotten that up to EUR 12 000 is no longer paid IRPF. Therefore, we are faced with a new reduction. Today we can do so in this scenario of economic growth and we do so from the conviction that this reduction of the IRPF will also serve as an economic boost so that we can meet the objectives of growth, job creation and reduction of the public deficit this year. This budget also brings new family aid for 710 000 taxpayers; it brings family aid for the 346 710 working mothers who will be eligible for a new deduction of up to EUR 1000 per year; it is an aid that will be charged when submitting the declaration of income for childcare expenses. We are talking about childcare costs but also about improvement for large families, for which there is provision for additional birth support of up to EUR 600 per year for each child exceeding the minimum number required. We hope that this will benefit more than 50,000 families. We also bring important tax incentives, as I said, to improve the lives of people with disabilities, so that in our country equal opportunities can increasingly reach people who, precisely because of their disability, cannot generate income on their own and therefore have every right to be supported by State policies, fiscal policies and social policies in this regard. These budgets are also those of territorial financing, because through these budgets the autonomous communities and local corporations - the autonomous communities in the first place - will receive the highest funding in their history, as previously announced. This funding is realized in 4268 million euros, 3.6% more revenues than in 2017, and of that amount 4 billion go to autonomous communities and 248 to local entities. This allows the autonomous communities to have more resources to give priority to the welfare State, the provision of public services that depend on them, health, education and social benefits, as well as fulfilling their statutory obligations under the statute of autonomy in relation to the rest of the functions. These are therefore budgets which, as your ladies and gentlemen know, enable the Government to undertake the restructuring of the debt of the autonomous communities and local corporations. The debt is focused, though not completely, on the State. The Government understands that the State cannot be financed in the future through the payment of the debt or interest on the debt generated by this crisis, which is the debt that has been derived from the exceptional mechanisms of financing, of liquidity that we have launched. This will allow us to address this debt restructuring here, in the Congress of Deputies, and then in the Senate of Spain, and to do so also in the calls of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and in the call of the National Commission of Local Administration during the month of May, because it is the will of the Government to carry forward the reform of autonomous financing and local financing, in parallel, so that we can ensure in the future that the new revenues that this economic recovery is leaving us will be used as a priority to finance the expenses of the welfare state, which are, I insist, education, health and social benefits. In addition, the Government increases investment in infrastructure by 16,5 % compared to 2017. The Government is committed to R & D+i. Investment in R & D+i is once again a priority, with an increase of 8.3%. There is also a strong 6.2% increase in industrial and energy activities, and it should be noted, in the area of social spending, that there has never been so much money in a State budget for scholarships and, therefore, so that opportunities for access to education, which is indeed the most important capital that can be enjoyed by human beings, are not lost. This scholarship money is at its peak in history and, in that sense, it is a contribution to equal opportunities, which is necessary for our social cohesion. It is also a budget that has a tax novelty, and that is that in the company tax we create boxes to be filled in by companies that want to allocate 0.7 % of the share of the company tax for social purposes - that is to say, to finance the third sector, to NGOs at the state level - and in this way to be able to derive part of that budget to finance NGOs, which are absolutely fundamental because, obviously, they are developing their activity throughout the territory, but we must finance their structure throughout the State. This is why we are bringing this new tax - this is the first time that this is being done in Spain, Madam Minister - which we are very proud of, and I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that it is also a measure which enjoys its acceptance. [[Applauds]] Madam President, I'm finishing up. The crisis is coming to an end. We do not say that it is over, let alone that its wounds have been closed, but what we do say is that the crisis is defeated, that it is not going to rise again and that we have before us the challenge of closing it definitively in this legislature. The State General Budgets Bill that we discussed today in the Congress of Deputies reflects that end of crisis that is knocking on our doorstep. And that is what the Government is asking its ladies and gentlemen, to open the door to the end of the economic crisis, allowing this bill to continue its process. Six years ago, we met in this House to approve the 2012 General State Budgets. Then we said that the sacrifices of the crisis had to be distributed. Those were the 2012 budgets. And the President of the Government was also saying about those 2012 budgets: we have budgets that are painful but necessary, that are going to pay off. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have budgets to distribute the benefits of recovery. We have moved from sharing the sacrifices of the crisis to bringing budgets that share the benefits of recovery. The difference is remarkable, and I, as Minister of Finance and Public Service of Spain, am very honoured to be able to present to the House, to the whole of Spanish society, budgets such as those we are defending today in this House. Well, what we are asking from the Government - it seems empty words - is for us to face together that challenge, that of distributing the benefits of economic recovery. That is the Government's proposal, how we distribute what we are getting, how we make there more growth, more employment, better wages and better pensions. That's what these budgets talk about. They mean improving the income of 13 million people and their families by raising public employees and pensions, starting with the most modest, widow's pensions. They also represent an advance in lower income tax reductions. They involve more money for scholarships, more money for basic public services and more money for third sector organisations. They involve improving the financing of the autonomous communities and involve more public investment. They mean, in short, strengthening the part of the expenditure that will make this exit from the crisis announced by the budgets even more social and more inclusive. I am convinced that no Member of this House is against raising pensions; against raising salaries to officials, as agreed with the trade unions; against improving the funding of the autonomous communities and local authorities. I am convinced that no one in this House refuses to let the IRPF go down to income below EUR 18,000 a year, or to introduce new support for families, new negative taxes, new checks. That is why I ask you for an opportunity so that the bill can overcome this debate and in this way meet the millions of Spaniards who will benefit directly from its content from the moment it is adopted. From there, I am sure there is room for improvement, through partial amendments; I am sure. Therefore, we need to have the opportunity to negotiate them in their processing and try to benefit even more people; we have always been open to doing so. That is why, once again, we are reaching out to those groups that want to share responsibility for this economic recovery; a recovery that is an obvious reality and that is pending that we strengthen the political stability of the country, because if there is no political stability in Spain, what economic recovery are we talking about? That is the value of political stability and the sum of votes in the vote that we will have tomorrow in this Congress. We are faced with the opportunity for Spain to have before it the best stage of prosperity and well-being it has had in its economic history. That is the objective of the Government and we also trust that it will be the objective of the majority of this House. We will continue to convince, we will continue to work, indeed, that this vote that opens the door to political stability in our country will take place tomorrow morning, following the ensuing debate of the amendments as a whole. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u8	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 16 hours. It was twelve and fifty-five minutes from noon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u9	The meeting was resumed. We move on to the debate on the full amendments to the State General Budgets Bill for 2018. Six amendments have been tabled to the full refund of this draft Law on General State Budgets for 2018. For the defence of the amendments tabled by the groups, Mr Saura García is speaking first of all by the Socialist Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets come to the House with an exhausted government, a government of the past, a government harassed by corruption and scandals; a government that, as has been shown this morning, does not have an exciting and future project. Mr Montoro told us in his speech that trust is very important for the economy. Trust is very important, said Mr Montoro. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, does the scandal of keeping a person for a month and a half, using that person's institutions in defence and self-interest, generate confidence? Does that generate confidence, Mr. Montoro? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, does a president of the government generate confidence by paradeing through the courts for cases of corruption? Do we have any confidence in having in this House budgets that should have entered Congress six months ago? Does that generate confidence? Does it generate confidence that the Constitutional Court has laid down a measure, its star tax measure, the tax amnesty, precisely because of the article that has to do with tax justice? Does that generate confidence, ladies and gentlemen? Do you trust your own management, Mr. Montoro, at the head of the ministry? [[Applauds]] It is that they are scandals every day; we open the newspapers and there is one scandal behind another. Does that generate confidence, Mr. Montoro? Does it generate confidence that you do not meet either the deficit or debt targets or the spending rule in these budgets? Does that generate confidence, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] That kind of trust I don't want for my country or for my economy; that kind of trust I don't want for my country. Mr Montoro has indeed presented the budgets this morning with little illusion, because he has not presented a project that generates hope and future for the 46 million Spaniards. You've given him little passion because you don't believe in budgets. You have also told us, Mr Montoro, that what these budgets and their economic policy want is for economic growth to reach the majority. But, Mr Montoro, if you are not willing to reform, to change, to repeal labour reform and want to make a small, jibarized social state, how will growth reach the majority, if those are the two reasons why growth does not reach the majority, Mr Montoro? How are you gonna get to most of them? [[Applauds]] We need to talk, in a debate as important as the one we are holding here, to the 46 million Spaniards and we need to talk to the more than 2 million children at risk of child poverty, and we need to talk to the 300 000 dependents who are on the waiting list, and we need to talk to the millions of women who are disappointed by the failure of the Pact against Gender Violence in these budgets. [[Applauds]] We need to talk, Mr Montoro, to the 20 million people who have lost an average of 10% of their income in recent years, and we need to talk to those young people and to those workers who, when they join their labour market, as a result of labour reform, will earn 30% less. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mr Montoro, labour reform, because you have created a new social class: the precarious and the precarious young. [[Applauds]] That's what the current growth model creates. And, Mr. Montoro, we also need to talk to the pensioners. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u11	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u12	Thank you, Madam President. We have to talk to the pensioners because they have worked hard to get their pension; they have earned their pension, it is a right, ladies and gentlemen, but you are using that pension as a commodity to negotiate these budgets, for budgetary negotiation, for political negotiation, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] It is unfortunate, a scandal, ladies and gentlemen: there was no money in the budgets so that the pensioners would not lose purchasing power, and now there is money. It is a scandal that the right of pensioners and pensioners is used as an electoral commodity, as a commodity again in political negotiation. [[Applauds]] There's no right. [[Protests]] Because pensions, Mr Montoro, are not a commodity, they are not in political negotiation, they are a right and they are part of the lives of millions of people. [[Protests. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u14	Thank you, Madam President. It must also be said that the regulatory framework does not change; that is, the pension reform of the People's Party is being maintained. In other words, as the tax authority has shown with government figures, by 2023 the pensioners, with this ongoing reform, will lose 11% of purchasing power, and that is why today we must also talk to the pensioners here. Look, ladies and gentlemen, budgets are the sharpest, clearest expression of the model of society that wants a political party or a government. Those are the budgets, the clearest expression. And these budgets show that you want a society that competes by devaluing the working conditions of the workers, that competes with low wages - this is what the budgets say - and you want a model of society with a jibarized social state, with Spain of 38%, that is, that social and productive expenditure goes down to 38%, which is the income, in relation to the GDP, that has Spain. That is the model of country you want and with that model of country the Socialist Party does not coincide; it does not coincide with that expression. I told him before that budgets are the sharpest expression of what a government wants for a country, it is the most important tool for the redistribution of wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, to say - as you said this morning - that budgets are the most social in history we have to lie a lot, we have to have a cynical attitude, we have to be very cheating, we have to lie repeatedly to say that these are the most social budgets in history.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u15	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u16	How are the most social budgets in history going to be? Let's talk about basic concepts of economics first. First, to compare two figures, what needs to be done is to compare them in relative terms, that is, taking into account the CPI, the cost of living. It turns out that if we include the CPI, the cost of living, these are not the most social budgets in history, in any way. So you're cheating, you're lying. To compare the figures with other countries or at different times of time it is necessary to do so as a percentage of national income, of GDP. Lie, these are not the most social budgets in history, no, they are not. They are the least social since 2009, not the most social, but the least social since 2009. We can keep making comparisons. These budgets can be compared in terms of spending priorities, i.e. in relation to what they weigh in the General State Budgets. Of course, they're not the most social either. They are therefore not the most social if we take prices into account, they are not the most social if we take national income into account and they are not the most social if we take priorities into account. They're not the most social. You're a compulsive cheater, Mr. Montoro. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, how are you going to be the most social if in the years 2017 and 2018 you are going to give to the big companies, through tax benefits and also through the way of less public revenue, 3 billion euros, which are 3 billion euros less income, when you tell the families that you are going to give them 1 billion euros. In those EUR 3 billion we will include, if I may, the EUR 2 billion that will cost the Spaniards the rescue of the People's Bank. Therefore tax trilerism, with one hand tells families that it will give 1000 million euros and with the other hand to large companies 3000 million euros. How are you going to be the most social, Minister? Ladies and gentlemen, how will they be the most social if social spending increases by 2.8% and national wealth will at least grow by 4.3% - the Minister of Economy says it will grow more - and tax revenues will grow by 6%? How are they going to be the most social? Where is social justice there, if it turns out that social spending is getting smaller and smaller? In this way they continue to adjust, bringing social and productive spending to Spain by 38%. That is why economic growth will not reach the majority, Mr Montoro. What our country needs is an in-depth tax reform. So you can pay more taxes? No, because Spanish tax rates are on average in the European Union. What happens is that the collection is 8 points below the euro area average. What we need to do is to completely change the tax system so that we have the necessary resources and make the system fair. Mr Montoro, you say that you are going to give the families a hand by lowering taxes, but that, who pays it, who finances it if we have to reduce the deficit and besides, there is no tax reform to pay more than you have? For it is paid by middle income and workers with less social expenditure, with cuts in the welfare state and raising co-payments and indirect taxation. [[Applauds]] Then it's not the most social, it's the most regressive. Mr Montoro, your tax policy, tax policy, the public finances that you run is pure improvisation, patching, chapuza and short-termism; there are no medium-term objectives, there are no medium-term programmes, it is all short-termism. The measures that go in this budget are measures that go this year, but probably next year they will not, because they are short-range, there is no medium-term orientation for our country. These budgets do not address, ladies and gentlemen, the serious reform of the pension system to resolve the structural deficit of the pension system, Mr Montoro. They continue to undermine the IRPF, they continue to patch the IRPF, they continue to bridge the IRPF; you are doing a Frankenstein with the tax system, it is true that it is now with orange tie, but Frankenstein at the end of the day, so the tax system will remain, Mr Montoro. This is what they're doing. There are no medium-term solutions in these budgets. But it is also, Mr Montoro, that you, as you said at the beginning, do not comply with tax rules or fiscal objectives and administer them arbitrarily. We already know that in 2017 neither the central administration nor social security met deficit or debt targets, but what we already know - you have been told Europe and the tax authority has said - is that this year neither the expenditure rule nor the deficit target nor the debt target will be met. Mr. Montoro, none of them will be fulfilled. Your Budget Stability Act is already wet paper and is part of the Chapuzas Montoro S.A. or S.L. movie series as you wish. [[Laughter]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's update that series of films, now it would be Montoro and Rivera Associates. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] This would be the headline of the series of films that we need to update. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, it is true that because it does not square what does not square, it is Mr Rivera's fiscal project, because that is less revenue and more expenditure to reduce the deficit; no, that is financial instability and it moves us away from the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, what would it be called to tell everyone what they want to hear? Po-pu-lis-mo. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, that which you have so much in your mouth, populism, and which so little applies, that is to say, tell everyone what you want to hear and that doesn't add up at all. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, insofar as we do not have monetary or foreign exchange policy, another of the fundamental tools in our country for economic policy and for modernising our country by increasing productivity are budgets. Mr Montoro, on economic growth there is no medal and it returns all the medals that have been pointed out, because our country's economic growth is in spite of the Government, and I will explain it to you later, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests]] Don't worry, Mr. Montoro, if you're gonna be able to answer me now, don't get nervous. Mr Montoro, this morning you implicitly recognized it, you have realized, but you have tried to hide it; historically our country to get out of a crisis devalued its currency and our exports improved, increased, gained weight in GDP, the same as now, but now the devaluation has not been of the currency, it has been a devaluation of the country, it has been a devaluation of the workers. [[Applauds]] That's the difference. Mr. Montoro, I'll buy you the change of growth model. Of course there's been a change in growth pattern! A growth model that is based on increasing inequality to be competitive, on financing growth and competitiveness through inequality. I buy him the change of growth model, but unfortunately he's a bad growth model. He had previously been told to return the medals of economic growth and not to aim at any. Why do I tell you that? Because we are going to see, ladies and gentlemen, in what we have in the legislature, has any economic reform been adopted in this legislature? None. As much as transposing European directives. What medium-term vision does the Government have for the Spanish economy? Not a single reform has been passed in this legislature! [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, about R+D+i+ is all said: they budget little and run less. It does not reach 30% of last year's execution. It's all said. In tangible and intangible capital investment is lower in these budgets and last year than twenty years ago. We can keep talking. Industrial policy has cut it by 41% over the last few years. Now they freeze the cut - they freeze it, I mean - and they talk about reindustrialization our country with that budget. Mr Montoro, that milonga does not tell us about it, nor will it tell the industrial sector; it will be able to tell the milonga to others, not us: because there is a 40% reduction in industrial policy in recent years. They have dismantled the Ministry of Industry and dismantled industrial policy. Therefore, Mr Montoro, medals on growth: none. The results are there. The Government itself recognizes this in the macroeconomic picture: productivity for this year is going to grow by 0.2. 2017 grew by 0.2. And, ladies and gentlemen, productivity is not an important variable, productivity is the most important variable that this country has to grow in another way, to grow in value and to grow through healthy and future competitiveness. And its structural policy is a policy based exclusively on the passing of days, the passing of the legislature. There is no medium-term project for this country, there is no resolution of our country's medium-term problems. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, if I may speak about the political forces that are going to support this budget: Mr Rivera and the political forces that are going to approve this budget. All these political forces tell us: we support some measures, but we do not support the whole budget, that is the People's Party. Listen, Mr Rivera, that doesn't go away; you, when you approve the budget, support the whole budget, the whole tax strategy of the People's Party. For us to understand each other, why do I say that? Because Mr Rivera and Citizens have supported all government budgets, all spending ceilings, all deficit targets, all revisions to our country's reactivation programme. They've all supported him! Then, it's the project, it's the government's fiscal and social plan. Of course I do. And for another reason, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera: because you, Mr Rivera, when you smell a minimum social state that makes you, you like it; that is pure and hard economic elitism. [[Applauds]] That puts them: a small social state. But no, ladies and gentlemen, no; when the State's General Budgets are supported, disappointing figures are being supported in the fight against child poverty. Very important, because it must not only be a country objective, it is not only ethically necessary, but that when we invest in fighting child poverty we are saving the future face, we are also making our system a more financing system. But when they support the budget they are also supporting the Government's non-compliance with women in the Gender Violence Plan, which is not being implemented in these budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of these political forces that support the budget, have you here in this Congress ever heard of a coupon? Who? To Mr. Rivera. Coupon. And what did Mr. Rivera say? That it was very bad, that you didn't have to support it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in these budgets the coupon goes to additional provision 107, but with one exception, ladies and gentlemen - if I may - with retroactive effect to 1 January. Why am I saying this? Because support for families - that has not been counted - starts in the middle of the year, but the coupon starts on January 1 of this year; then, with retroactive effect. Mr. Rivera, you can't talk about the Basque quota here anymore, you can't talk about submission to the nationalists. [[Applauds]] We agree that Mr Montoro is a fiscal trier, with one hand I give you and with another I take you away; but you are a political trier, in the morning I say one thing and in the afternoon I vote another. That's political trilerism, Mr. Rivera. From now on, we are no longer talking about the Basque quota because you are going to support that coupon with retroactive effects. Therefore, explain this to the Spanish, Mr Rivera. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is another fiscal policy and there is another fiscal and social project for this country, of course it is. And we have shown this by proposing an alternative to these budgets. An alternative, Mr Montoro, which puts productivity and redistribution of wealth at the heart of politics and puts it at the heart of politics. To this end, we propose to reorient EUR 8 billion in such a way that they go to productive expenditure and social expenditure. And there is a difference in relation to the rest of the economic projects that have been presented: it is the only one that is taken seriously to square the accounts and meet the fiscal objectives. The only one that is taken seriously, including the Government. Because I have to remember, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Montoro does not comply with any of the rules. Like a champion, Mr. Montoro, like a champion. And on top of that, he gives classes and tells everyone what to do, and he doesn't follow any of the rules, Mr. Montoro. The Socialist Party's alternative is the only one seeking to comply with that budgetary balance and those fiscal rules. Mr Montoro, what we want is to allocate EUR 4200 million to education, R & D+i, active employment policies, reindustrialisation and the Digital Agenda, to the green transition, and we also think that we need to invest in social welfare. When we think of social welfare, Mr Montoro, when we think of a fiscal and future alternative consistent with time, solid and also fair, we are thinking first of all about combating youth poverty and child poverty. For this we intend to allocate 2400 million euros, and we are committed to a housing plan, we are committed to a young rescue plan, we are committed to complying with the Pact against Gender Violence, we are committed to allocating 700 million euros to solve the waiting lists of the dependency and we also increase the unemployment protection by 1 billion. All this, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, can be financed because more efficient public spending can be made. If we approach European standards in efficiency, we can save money and demonstrate it. And also fighting tax fraud and evasion because, Mr Montoro, what is not possible is to fight tax fraud and evasion by reducing by 2,300 the tax agency today in relation to 2011, and it is not possible to fight tax fraud, Mr Montoro, with that tax amnesty. Mr. Montoro, if you have chosen. When you say that there is no money for pensioners, when you say that there is no money for social spending or for productive spending, to increase productivity, you don't want to remember that you made a tax reform that essentially meant a gift to higher incomes and large corporations of 13 billion euros. With EUR 13 billion, a point of GDP, social policy could be made. [[Applauds]] But you, Mr. Montoro, chose. The policy is to choose and you choose to have a jibarized state, as small as possible, comparable to those of Lithuania, Latvia, Bulgaria or Romania. That is the social state you want, because you understand that inequality is necessary for economic growth. Returning to our fiscal and budgetary alternative, I tell you that it can be financed by making large business groups pay at least 15% in corporate tax and the richest 1% in our country contribute more. That is why we turn it around as a sock to their budgets, putting solutions in the medium term of modernization of our country and also betting on the fundamental social cohesion for economic growth. Mr. Montoro, you call social and productive spending wasteful. What did you call him last year? Public expenditure eraser. Mr Montoro, for us it is inclusive growth. For us, Mr Montoro, it is country dignity. That is social and productive spending for us. [[Applauds]] Our country proposal goes precisely towards that dignity of the Spaniards. It is a proposal that wants to reach 13 million people and 3.5 million more young people, in total more than 16 million Spaniards. Mr Montoro, if there is to be national dignity and social justice, we need to have fiscal justice, and you with this budget do not guarantee it. Thank you, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u17	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when a member of a parliamentary group represents the history of much of the governments of democracy, he cannot rise to this rostrum without recognizing what he has done in that history, without recognizing the history of socialist governments in our country. Mr. Saura occupies this rostrum to say that the Government has no plans. No, the government project I explained this morning is that in three consecutive years of economic growth we have completely closed the wounds of the economic crisis in terms of unemployment, in terms of youth unemployment, in terms of restoring social cohesion and in terms of Spain having a level of wealth and gross domestic product as it has never had in its history. That is the Government's plan. [[Applauds]] Does your honor understand that that's not having a country project? It's the opposite, exactly the opposite. Governments that destroy the economy and prosperity are governments that break society. Governments that destroy prosperity are the ones that generate populism. Governments that destroy prosperity are those that give rise to citizens who think that because they are not members of that society, because they are members of another country, they would be better off. That's what governments that destroy prosperity do, and we've been living it in Spain. That is the risk that we have to overcome once and for all in our country, the risk of social rupture and the risk of political rupture in Spain, and for that we need prosperity, because without that prosperity we cannot share well-being, which is the proposal that the Government has brought to this House this morning, to share prosperity. [[applause]] You, as a member of the Socialist Party, are a worthy representative of the Socialist Party in the opposition. Mr Saura, in the face of the disqualifications you have addressed to me, I will refer to yours by telling you that you are an excellent representative of the opposition. [[Applauds]] It is very good for Spain that the Socialist Party continues, year after year, to represent the opposition. The leader of today's Socialist Party is not sitting in that seat. [[Rumors]] No, it's not. The last time I had the opportunity to discuss with him was in the presentation of the draft General Budgets of the State for the year 2016, and on that occasion - today I had the opportunity to re-present the draft General Budgets of the State - I already told Mr Sánchez that he would not be sitting in the seat. Who did it? Who are we still in the government or who is not sitting in the seat? [[Applauds]] [[Mr Ábalos Meco speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u19	Mr. Abalos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u20	Maniocs? [[Mr Ábalos Meco speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u21	Mr. Abalos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u22	You confuse democracy with the political manoeuvres of your representatives. [[Applauds]] Today there is a government of the People's Party in a minority because, in fact, the majority of the Socialist Group has facilitated it, and that is good for Spain, good for the growth of the Spanish. Do you know how different it is every year of the previous year, Mr. Saura? That there are more than five hundred thousand people working in 2017 compared to 2016, more than six hundred thousand people affiliated to Social Security. Does that seem to you to be a poor result? Do you and the Socialist Group want five hundred thousand more people working in 2018 than in 2017? That's the question. [[Applauds]] That is the question that must be asked in political terms. That is the question that makes sense that we are sitting in these seats. But how can we say that the country is not working, that the country is not going forward, when there was a 3.1% growth last year, when in this first quarter of 2018 there was a 3% growth over the same quarter of the previous year and when more than five hundred thousand jobs are being created a year in that country? That the country needs reforms? Of course I do. When doesn't a country need reforms? What the minority People's Party Government is doing is calling the Socialist Party's responsibility, the responsibility for it to commit itself to that reform. We have been able to move forward in 2017, where more than five hundred thousand jobs have been created and where there have been more than six hundred thousand new members of Social Security. In 2017 we have covered the record of Spanish exports to the rest of Europe and to the rest of the world. In 2017 we made the largest record of foreign investment in Spain, with historical peaks. In 2017 and 2018, the country risk premium, which is the one that measures the confidence of the markets in Spain, is below 70 basis points, when in the years 2011 and 2012 it reached 640/650 basis points. How do you measure confidence, meeting your friends in a bar throwing the afternoon? Is that where trust lies? Is it not measured in the consumer confidence index published by the CIS? Isn't that confidence measured there? And is that confidence not measured in international investment in Spain? And is it not measured, as Mr Saura said, in meeting the deficit targets? [[Rumors]] That has already been the final thing this afternoon. [[Applauds]] That the deficit targets have not been met! Man, there are things that... Let us see, what was the objective that the Socialist Group actually voted in this House in the so-called spending ceiling, which are the objectives of the public deficit for 2017? Was it or was it not 3,1 % of the gross domestic product for 2017? Has this objective been achieved by reducing it, in relation to 2016, by EUR 14.2 billion? Has it been achieved or has it not been achieved? It is that this of the economic and budgetary debates, the difficulty they have is that they are measured, quantified. One doesn't come up here to say realities that don't exist! This has been achieved thanks to the efforts of all Spaniards; thanks to the commitment of public administrations; thanks to compliance with the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability; thanks to compliance with the following laws, such as the law prohibiting commercial debt in our country and which obliges the payment of suppliers of all administrations within the deadlines set by the Law on late payment. That's fulfilling. But it is not just to comply with Europe, which is already, because we are Europe and we have to comply with Europe by complying with ourselves with the policies that best suit us as a country, that is to do... And what I think, really, listen, and I point it out, eh?, believe me that I point it at my heart, that Mr Saura, representing the Socialist Group, goes up to the rostrum to say that the Socialist Group's real commitment is budgetary stability. Man, this has indeed been the apotheosis of an amendment to the entire 2018 State General Budgets! The apotheosis. Don't understand it as a criticism, understand it because I thought it was great. What happens is that the Socialist Party has ruled two periods in Spain, only this situation occurs, two periods, two periods closed. In 1995, with a public deficit of 7% of GDP. By the way, in 1993 he himself, the last government of President González, succeeding himself and putting as spokesman of the parliamentary group that had been his Minister of Economy and Finance, recognized a hidden deficit of 3 points of GDP. Not bad, three points of GDP. Finally, the Socialist Government closed in 1995 with a 7 % government deficit. He returned to rule in the second phase of our democracy, in the years two thousand. Yeah, but how did they close? What was the public deficit you left, Mr. Saura? 9.3% of gross domestic product plus a commercial debt, which means a recognised and unpaid debt of EUR 35 billion. That is the balance of Spain's socialist governments; that is the balance. At least get up here, now that you're excited to come up and embrace budgetary stability, I'm really shocked! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I don't know, it's been an emotional shock, to say that they are truly the budgetary stability of Spain. Hey, but are you able to come up and tell me only one of your administrations that, in fact, you are not all day denying the Budget Stability Act and fulfilling it because you have no other obligation? He has no obligation but to fulfil it, but they deny it, the controls of the Treasury, the controls of Europe, the controls of the world, because they, the socialists, understand that to govern is to spend. But, yes, they are proposing tax reforms, which also had yours, Mr Saura. You have discovered the corporation tax, the Socialist Party has already made it public; you have discovered it. Do you want to explain to me just one thing, Mr. Saura, just one figure? Do you know what the corporate tax collection was in 2011, when it stopped ruling the Socialist Party? EUR 16 billion. Do you know what the corporate tax collection was in 2007, before the onset of the crisis? EUR 44 billion. Hey, to get down from 44 000 to 16 000 is to get down; it's to get down. And what did the Socialist Party do in the government to prevent that drop in revenue? This has brought you so brilliantly here, what is it, to apply an effective type of tax on accounting results? Do you know what the effective tax rate of the consolidated groups in Spain was, how much they paid when the People's Party government arrived? 3% was the average, Mr Saura. Do you want to explain why? Because I had already been a government before and was a finance minister before, and with me they paid 14% and 15%, and we turn out to be back and they pay 3%; 3% on accounting results. Well, it's not bad what a transformation of corporation tax really is. Is that the credibility that it brings, not you, but the Socialist Group? Look, when you've had government responsibilities, the first thing you have to do is recognize what the mistakes have been in order not to repeat them again, especially in order not to repeat them again, because we have important things to agree with the Socialist Group. I can even understand that you keep the amendment in its entirety. But I couldn't understand him saying - that he hasn't said a word - that he doesn't like the salary increase of officials, that he hasn't said a word. I would ask you to come up to the rostrum to say whether you reject the increase agreed with the public service unions for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. I'd beg you. [[Applauds]] I would ask you to go upstairs and explain why you do not want us to raise salaries and improve jobs and especially improve the payroll of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which is what these budgets incorporate. Go upstairs and tell him why, tell him, because he hasn't mentioned these issues. Go upstairs and tell him why he doesn't feel good about us raising pensions in our country. I explained this morning that the Government's view is that pensions should rise in line with the economic developments in Spain, and I have appealed to the Toledo Pact. He goes on to say that his commitment is the Toledo Pact, which is very important that we effectively agree on the immediate future of pensions in Spain. [[Applauds]] Come on up and get engaged. That is what the General Budgets of the State bring. And they go up to commit themselves also in terms of autonomous financing, because there are new resources, more than EUR 4 billion new for the autonomous financing contained in these General State Budgets. Do you think the current system is wrong? We don't like it and we're proposing to reform it. And does the proposal in these budgets to restructure the debt that autonomous communities and local corporations have with the State also seem to you wrong? Does that sound bad to the Socialist Group? These are the questions you have to ask yourselves; yes, I know, if you are not going to answer it now, this is parliamentary dynamics. But give yourself this deep reflection because it's worth it, believe me it's worth it. It is worth using this legislature because it is really worth it once we have already awakened an economic growth, the healthiest in our history, Mr Saura, because you will recognize that Spain has never grown six years with a current account surplus - never before, nor with the devaluations we have achieved -, which means that we have a much more competitive economy than we have ever had before. Today we also have a country that can cope with the shocks that it can suffer because there has been a private sector de-alignment from 2011 to now of EUR 440 billion. That's what companies have done and families have done. Never like now are companies self-financing their investment. It is therefore up to companies to carry out this economic recovery by choosing the sector of activity that characterizes them. And of course we have a different model of society! Of course we do, Mr. Saura! It was just missing! Let's see if we're going to get confused at this point after everything we've been through! You are socialists and you come up here and say naturally: You do not define the policy of the industries in Spain. I'd just miss it! We are already going to hear that from Mr Garzón, who is a communist, and from Mr Iglesias, who is honoured in these debates, it is not going to be seen that he does not handle the figures, although nothing happens because everything is a matter of studying. He's still old enough to study and I think the study is really a good conviction. [[Applauds]] You're socialists and that's the big difference. The big difference is that we believe that people are the ones that make a country's economy great. It is the companies and the self-employed that decide where they are going to invest and where they are going to implement their business. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u24	It is these people who give us lessons every day of economics. Of course, I get it every year I've been trying to really learn that great social science that's the economy and its part that's the public finance. That is why, when you read in a budget that from that public budget there is no interventionism to make business, because the truth is that we are different. You are socialist, but that does not mean that we do not have to agree on the fundamental elements such as State funding, what are the priorities of the State and, in particular, the priorities of the welfare State. We have an obligation to agree on how the State provides its basic public services such as national defence, the administration of justice and citizen security. And a State must commit itself, political formations, to the definition and configuration of these basic functions of the State. We, the People's Party Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, are fulfilling our commitments in the fight against gender-based violence. Let it be very clear that this commitment is being fulfilled. Because we cannot understand a society where such gender-based violence exists and the Government of the People's Party is the first Government committed to the eradication of all kinds of violence, but of that so improper of our time, a kind of violence that falls on women completely inadmissible and inexcusable. For that we allocate resources and for that we ask for the commitment of the autonomous administrations and local corporations, scrupulously fulfilling what has been a pact configured among all so that we can carry it forward. Mr Saura, otherwise, you continue in your melody also full of improvisations towards this minister - we have already been a few years and we are not going to change it at this point - that I have to try to explain modestly to you that, when we have lowered taxes and increased the tax base, we have raised more. That is what happened to the first governments of the People's Party. That is what did not happen to the socialist governments, which did the tax reform in 2007 and in 2008 and 2009 lost €70 billion in collection. That is exactly what happened, which lost €70 billion in collection. By the way, the tax equity so pointed out could have been explained to the former socialist government, because it was the one who abolished the property tax - remember - and then replenished it, but suppressed it, suppressed it as an anti-crisis measure. He suppressed it, and here I smile because I have no other remedy left. I was Minister of Finance in the second legislature of the governments of the People's Party and I did not think about abolishing the property tax. It came to you, socialist progress. [[Applauds]] It occurred to you, it occurred to you. And also in the reform of the IRPF they came up with another treatment, because now it goes up here to say with disparate and gallanty that we make reforms for the rich, but in the 2007 tax reform of the IRPF you introduced a different tax for the income of capital and from the socialist reform of 2007 in Spain the income of capital has a different tax than the income derived from the income of work, nominations, pensions and professional activities. That was introduced by you in 2007 -- you -- so much progress and so socially equitable. [[applause]] Or wasn't it? Wasn't it? There is an economic reality that is imposed, the same one that caused a socialist president of government to come up here in 2010 to impose the greatest social restrictions in our history; by the way, voted by Mr Sánchez, who held a seat there, voting in favour of the freezing of pensions and in favour of reducing the salary of officials by 5%. [[applause]] Those who warned then from the opposition went up to this rostrum and said: We have a very big crisis on top, economic and budgetary reality is going to be imposed. And he did. The problem is that it was paid by those who didn't have to pay it. They paid for the errors, the errors of PlanE and the 2009 regional funding programme. Mistakes are paid for and very harshly in a country. These errors are paid and continue to be paid, but now we are in 2018 and the government's budget wants to be constructive. We can understand that you keep the amendment as a whole for general political reasons and that you go up to this rostrum to criticize other political groups - there you are with what you understand by political opponents - but what is clear is that we need to get along with the Socialist Party. We cannot reform autonomous financing in Spain without the Socialist Party. You govern seven autonomous communities and are co-government in the Basque Country. We cannot do this without you, so I appeal to your responsibility. I appeal to your responsibility in the Toledo Pact. We cannot define what the immediate future of pensions will be without the Socialist Party, Mr Saura, Mrs Robles. We cannot and must not do that. We have to make pensions an issue outside the political debate; we have to give security and reliability to those pensions, and that is why we are proposing to groups to make proposals, but to raise and finance, which is what we need for the Toledo Pact, to give security and reliability to that present and that future of pensions, and we need it now. We need him now. That is why I conclude, Mr Saura, by calling on you, on your responsibility, on the responsibility of the Socialist Group, to go beyond the amendment as a whole, to do so in coincident partial amendments, to do so in the reform of the Toledo Pact, in its updating, and to do so urgently in the reform of autonomous and local financing. Because now we can do it, we have the resources to do it and we can also commit ourselves together to that great concept of budgetary stability to establish economic recovery and job creation, so that, in fact, next year, 2019, we can have 20 million occupied, and in 2020, we will have 20.5 million and, therefore, the highest level of occupation, the record in occupation of our history. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Saura García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, don't worry about Mr Pedro Sánchez; he won't go back to the opposition seat, he'll go back to the government seat, don't worry. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr. Montoro, I spend every afternoon in my office working in front of the computer and I don't go into shame, as you wanted to do here this afternoon. I'm working every afternoon; I don't go down the ball, like you, in shame and disqualification, Mr. Montoro. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, I have followed you carefully throughout the speech. He has not answered the nuclear question of my intervention, which is that social spending is not the greatest in our country's history, that social spending is not the most important. You couldn't beat me, Mr. Montoro, no. What you want, and you've recognized it - that's why you're right - is to jibarize, make social spending small. Now we're going to talk about taxes and we're going to talk about corporate tax, but you haven't answered me to the fundamentals. How will it be the most social if social spending increases by 2.8, the economy grows by 4.3 and tax revenues grow by 6? It's not the biggest social spending, no; it's a social spending that's losing weight. That's what your budget plan says, that's what your update plan says that you sent to Europe. That's all, and you haven't answered me, Mr. Montoro. On the management of socialist governments and how well you have done, I will tell you that in the democratic history of our country, elsewhere in the cycle like this, there have been only three public surpluses, only three: in 2005, 2006 and 2007, when it ruled the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, three. But what's more, Mr Montoro, is that you, who has been Minister of Finance for so many years - so goes to the Spanish Public Treasury - in no year have you had a surplus, in no year, Mr Montoro. [[applause]] Moreover, what the International Monetary Fund has just said is that of the industrialized economies, Spain is, since 2012, where debt has grown the most as a percentage of GDP. That is what the International Monetary Fund has just said. But I'll tell you more. At another time in the cycle similar to this, public debt was 35% in relation to GDP, with socialist governments. Now public debt is around 100% of GDP, Mr Montoro. There's the difference. And I could go on. You had an unemployment rate of 26 or 27 % and at another similar time in the cycle the unemployment rate was at 8 %, Mr Montoro; of course there are differences. What you can't do here are the usual traps you use in each of your interventions. That's why I told you he's a compulsive cheater, but with us not and with me less, Mr. Montoro. But I tell you more, the socialist government, at a difficult time, has left the social security accounts in balance and a reserve fund of EUR 76 billion, and you have a structural deficit of social security as never before in history and you have squandered the social security reserve fund. [[Applauds]] But where is good management, Mr. Montoro? Since it goes backwards, since it has gone to 2006 or 2007, why not go to 2003? Who ruled in 2003? Who was the economic vice president and finance minister? Mr. Rat. Ah, Mr. Rat! His boss, the economic miracle of the People's Party, Mr. Rat, who when he was vice president defrauded the Treasury and had resources in tax havens. [[Applauds]] Is that the economic model you want for our country, Mr Montoro? On taxes, of which you have spoken before - and I finish, Madam President - the Socialist Party proposal, do you know what it is? That you pay more than you have more, that you contribute according to income and wealth, exactly what the Constitution says. We want nothing other than to comply with article 31 of the Constitution, exactly the article that the Constitutional Court has said that you do not comply with. We want to comply with the Constitution, nothing more and nothing less, Mr Montoro. You have spent your whole life - politics and professional - seeking that big fortunes, big corporations don't pay taxes; that's what you've devoted your whole life to, in your professional life and in your political life, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] As far as corporation tax is concerned, don't cheat on us. Look, in 2007 companies had exactly the same accounting benefits they're going to have in 2018, the same ones. Now, this year, according to their estimates, half of what was paid in 2007, with the same accounting profits, is going to be paid for corporation tax. Mr. Montoro, where's the difference? The right and the left, it's not the same. [[Applauds]] I'm done. You're asking us for responsibility. I will not remind you, at a difficult time for Spain, what you told Mrs Oramas; I will not remind you because you have been reminded many times. [[Rumors.-Various Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Yes, yes!]] I'm not going to remind you. I will not remind you of what at such a difficult time for the future of Spain you told Mrs Oramas: to let Spain fall that you were going to get Spain out of trouble. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] No, I'm not gonna tell you that...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u27	Mr. Saura, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u28	I'm done, Madam President. Mr Montoro, we are not going to support the budgets because they are right-wing budgets and you already have right-wing partners to support those budgets. [[Protests.-Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u29	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u30	Personal memory brings me the image of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, being leader of the opposition, occupying this rostrum to make the same amendment to the whole, and mine, being Minister of Finance, in 2003. He said: Soon there will be a socialist government in Spain. There certainly was, and Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero sat there. But don't forget what I had the opportunity to say at the time: When the socialist government arrives in Spain there will be millions of unemployed people. And that's what was accomplished. When the socialist government arrived in Spain and wasted the inheritance received it left a destruction of 3 million jobs. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] He left the government deficit, didn't he? Isn't that right? [[Rumors]] Aren't those millions of jobs destroyed? [[The Rumors Continue]] Nothing, nothing, people destroyed them, they did not destroy a wrong policy and a wrong diagnosis of the economic crisis. Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero won the 2008 elections saying there was no economic crisis. Or wasn't it? Didn't the Socialist Party win by denying the economic crisis in 2008? For there was an economic crisis; there was an economic crisis as we were warning those who were in opposition. And that economic crisis has left us the legacy that I spoke about this morning and that we are trying to overcome. I do not know if one day the Spaniards will choose Mr Sánchez - who is of age - to hold the presidency of the Government of Spain. Who knows? But what is very important is that if that happens, there will never be the legacy of the socialist governments again: more unemployment, more deficit and once again take the credibility of Spain out of the border. Do not compare with the arrivals of the People's Government, which have all been to amend the legacy of the socialist governments, all of them; twice, twice, it has happened, Mr Saura. It's been like this. You confuse the general equation of the economy, which consists of the balances of economic agents: business sector, family sector and public sector. And of course, the public sector may have a surplus of +2, as it had in 2007, but the net balance of the economy versus the rest of the world was -9, of -9. When that happens and comes from the previous year of being -9, it doesn't matter if you have +2, unless instead of using +2 in plans E and fooling the autonomous communities and local corporations by giving them a money you don't have, you use it to plug the wounds of the crisis, a banking crisis like there was. By the way, before, what did you say? That this year we're going to pay for the bankruptcy of the People's Bank? What does that have to do with anything? $2 billion? Where'd you get that? But if that is already fully involved in the absorption of that crisis and the consequences of what is technically called financial aid correspond to the year 2017. That's completely wired. From there, today we have more resources than ever, and it's the numbers again. More social spending, 196,782 million euros, 56% of the total budget expenditure that we present to the House, increasing pension spending by 5188 million euros, to reach 144,834 million euros, and allocating more public resources to the financing of the budgets of autonomous communities and local corporations, which have an absolutely fundamental part of the welfare state. That's what we're doing with these budgets. This means that in social protection, section 10 of the budget of our public administrations, we are paying 50 billion more than in 2007; 50 billion more. There has never been so much social spending in Spain, because pension spending and disability spending have never been so high in our country, and fortunately, unemployment insurance spending is falling because there are more and more job opportunities for people. That is what is happening in our country in terms of social spending. Very soon the autonomous communities will have enough expenditure to overcome even the year 2009, where they were given an autonomous funding without funds that produced a public deficit, the largest in our history, of 9%. That is what happened in Spain and that is what we are about to overcome. Total education expenditure in Spain exceeds that in 2007 by more than EUR 2 billion and very soon health expenditure will do so. Therefore, the great benefits of public spending in our country are reaching historical peaks, and that is good, that is positive and that is the case, and it has to remain so, because, as I explained this morning, that is to share the benefits of economic growth, that is to say to establish equal opportunities, so that citizens really have the same rights to health, which is the essential good of life, and the same rights to the development of their training and knowledge, which - as I have already defined this morning - is the most important of the capitals that the human being can have, and the same rights to have a decent standard of living, because the State's obligation is to guarantee that income when citizens, because of sickness, disability or because they are older, cannot generate it by themselves. That is the state that defends the Government of the People's Party, that is the state that makes us have a more cohesive society and that is the proposal we bring in these budgets. [[Applauds]] Mr Saura, the truth is that I have not understood anything of why you object; well, I have already understood, yes, you object because they are brought by a People's Party government. Let's get things clear and the chocolate thick. If you object, you are in your right, go for God!, but also go ahead my call to responsibility, because I have already told you, and you have responded to that, that we need the Socialist Group on absolutely fundamental issues. We are therefore waiting for you in the partial amendments, we are waiting for you in the convening of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, also in the convening of the National Commission of Local Administration; in short, we are waiting for you in the major issues because there is really a lot at stake, such as the Toledo Pact, which certainly has to define the present and future of pensions. Mr Saura, we will have no choice but to understand each other and we will do it for the good of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u31	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr. Montoro. This should not be an arid debate, even though the economy is often presented, at least outwards, as a sort of dark science; the truth is that it mentions elements that have to do with the day-to-day life of working families in our country and it should be a debate about the model of society, about the kind of country you want to build. We economists who define ourselves as critics, we usually use a phrase that I think is very interesting and that was said by British economist Joan Robinson, who said that economics must be studied to avoid being deceived by economists. I often use it to set you an example, because you usually use many phrases, words and even figures that hide much deeper and much more dramatic realities, and that, in short, is your budget for this year. When we see the budgets, we see a part of the model of society that you want to build. In particular, it is quite obvious. There are some items in these budgets that draw attention even - I might say - to the clumsiness of the Government. A 20% cut in the climate change heading. Its lowest level in fifty years; it is truly surprising in the light of everything we know about the situation on our planet. A commitment made by the Government of the People's Party, for 200 million euros, to comply with the state pact against macho violence; you fail to do so. They fail and place only 80 million and say: the remaining 120, you will see. It will be up to other entities to satisfy it when it is you who committed themselves, when it is the central government. These are concrete elements. But it may be more interesting to ask yourself about the philosophy of budgets in general. These budgets consolidate the cuts... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u33	Quiet. One second, Mr. Garzón. Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u34	Thank you, Madam President. He said that these budgets consolidate the cuts started in 2010; if anything you cannot be accused of is a lack of coherence. You continue in this line, called euphemistically fiscal consolidation and that is nothing but cuts in public services, begun in 2010 - Government of the Socialist Party -, continued with article 135 reformed of the Constitution and then successive laws. And why don't you talk here about your stability programme from 2017 to 2020, because to me it's the most sincere thing this government has done in this legislature. In this stability programme, which you are not the only one who does not talk about, nor has your Government spoken about in the weeks of appearances, they plan to cut public spending - that is, public investment in fundamental public services over GDP - until 2020; they plan to lower, page 38 of their own programme, to 39.2%. The European average is now 46%. What does this mean? To explain it in a very simple way, it means that even if GDP grows, even if pie grows, the share of public services decreases, the state becomes smaller and that means that public health becomes smaller, public education becomes smaller, pensions become smaller and, ultimately, fundamental elements for the sustainability of life become smaller because you have wanted to. That is why when we come to the debate on pensions we have to put it black on white, Mr Montoro. Do you know what your last-minute pension agreement means? At least two teachings. The first, that mobilizes in the street serves. [[Applauds]] It serves very clearly. You have had many of your spokespersons insulting the pensioners, telling them: you have to apologize to the government; you have to apologize. Turns out it's helpful to mobilize. But you know the second thing, which is even clearer? That you were lying. You said that you could not, that there was no money for pensions, and it turns out - what a coincidence! - that, magic by means, now it is possible. [[Applauds]] That is essential, because it means that the things we are discussing here today depend on political will, not technical problems. It means that when you say that there is no money, you are not referring to an immutable reality, but to a political choice: there is no money for certain things, and there is money for others. That is what you are saying and that is what needs to be deciphered, and your budgets are deciphered very easily. Mr Montoro, you said about those budgets this morning that they share the benefits of the crisis. This kind of example is where you cheat. Let's see. At the moment there are social realities that you cannot ignore. Partial contracts are now larger than before the Government of the People's Party came to govern. Yes, 350,000 jobs. There are people who have contracts for hours, people who have contracts for weeks. I ask you if you could live in those conditions; it is practically a personal question with a fairly important political implication. But observe: if nominal GDP grows, Mr Montoro, and it does not grow to the same extent, for example, wages, what is happening? It is a question that could be asked in any faculty of economy: that inequality is growing, Mr Montoro, and that business benefits are also growing. I have recently read that you have told the big companies that they have to raise wages. They have to raise wages because you yourself have realized that business profits are being fired. Business profits go up, wages go down. In 2017, Mr Montoro, wages only grew by an average of 0.14%!, knowing that heterogeneity is very important. Therefore, you, as a government, why do you ask large companies to raise wages? Why don't you act? Because you're the government, you're not a person who went through there and you think in ethical terms. You are the government, you could use the tax system to encourage wage increases, to help collective bargaining or to make resources available to the public. On the other hand, what do we find with these budgets? Note: we have €1326 million in corporate tax benefits, 62% more than the previous year. Corporate tax is mainly paid by large companies. Are they really the ones who are going through the worst? Companies that paid 35 % nominal and now pay 25 % are the ones that deserve this love? Among these companies are the socimi, institutions of speculation with housing - a human right - to which you now give 261 million euros in tax benefits. What a great love they have for big companies! What social utility does that have, Mr. Montoro? I do understand that you have very clear interests and you are protecting them. In the previous debate you have discussed an issue that you and I have already discussed many times, the actual rate that large companies pay. You have been debating with Mr Saura and you have literally said that in the years when you were a minister with Aznar you paid an effective rate of 14% and with the Socialist Party of 3% and that now, more or less, you are at 7%. Do you really think this kind of discussion is reasonable? Do you know how much the actual type of a normal family is? The 15, the 20, the 25? Does it seem normal for a working family to pay 20% and 25% and for large companies at best 7%? Do you think it's normal? [[Applauds]] I don't think so. This kind of debate does not help anyone. What needs to be done is to change it and you are not for the work. Speaking of those who do not pay: this year the collection of the fight against tax fraud falls for the third consecutive year, why? If you say that economic growth exists -3,1 % in real terms and 4,3 % in nominal terms - why is it that with more economic activity less is collected from the fight against tax fraud? Mr Montoro, 80% of workers in the Tax Agency are engaged in the pursuit of SMEs, self-employed and individuals; only 20% are engaged in large companies and large fortunes, which is where the vast majority of fraud is. That is a huge problem in terms of collection, but it turns out that since 2010 the number of tax agency officials has fallen by more than 2500 in the case of civil servants and almost 3000 in the case of labour personnel, and you are not correcting that. They could have fixed it. Mr Montoro, it turns out that we have already recovered GDP from ten years ago and we are not recovering public services from ten years ago. Do you realize what that means? That you are undermining the state, you are undermining the state's instruments to fight the financial corrupt also against the others, of course, but this is a budgetary debate - and you are favouring large companies with their tax rebates. [[Rumors]] And it turns out that in terms of revenue they do not even comply with your Stability Programme - you have written it - on public spending. You expect public spending to fall by 2020, so literally. They're his programs. [[Rumors]] But do you know what they're planning? That income goes up, and that's not seen in these budgets. That is the mortgage - orange - that you have signed with Citizens. That is to say, they are betting on a system in which public expenditure and income fall. They do not comply with the least bad part of their own Stability Programme. [[Rumors]] With what are public services financed if it is not with progressive income? Because that's the other side that they fail. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u36	It turns out that the weight of direct taxes is falling systematically. The weight of the IRPF falls, the weight of corporation tax falls and the weight of indirect taxes rises. Do you know what that means? It means that a banker pays the same VAT as you, that I and any family working in Spain, and that is unfair and that is against what is being fought in the tax system, which, by the way, in our country was good enough and you are destroying it not only with these budgets but with all the tax reforms that you have agreed - also with the Socialist Party when you were ruling them - that systematically reduce the fiscal progressivity of our system. That means less money to pay for education, to pay for health. By the way, as I said before, we have recovered the magnitude of GDP ten years ago; we have recovered it, right. But compared to 2010, we have a reduction in education, culture and sport by 21.6%; health, social services and equality by 31.2%; promotion by 54%; and so on. What does that mean? That his speech that GDP is growing, if it is not accompanied by social measures to recover the public services lost during the crisis serves nothing, at least the majority of the Spanish population. Do you know who it's for? To those who are staying the great part of the cake of their policies, which are the big companies and the big fortunes. At the same time as you cut in the state, health, education, social pensions, dependency law, combating gender-based violence, you help concerted and private schools and help private pension funds. Private pension funds benefit by EUR 2 billion, which is exactly the same amount that would cost to upgrade pensions to the CPI level in a single year. [[Applauds]] Why does a government like yours, which says it wants to safeguard public pensions, encourage people to make private pensions? By the way, they are not private pensions, but a financial product of pure and hard speculation that in many cases has a lower return than that of public debt. In any case, why don't you invite people to invest in public debt, as it is? Because you are the representative of the public and not of private pension funds; at least that is my impression when I see that you are Minister of Finance. At the same time, they also continue to help large private companies, which are benefiting from this economic policy. That is why we not only challenge this year's budgets here, but we challenge its economic policy; the economic policy of the so-called fiscal consolidation that what it is doing, in Milton Friedman's words, is selling the state to pieces. Using the words of another economist, David Harvey, I believe this is accumulation by dispossession: it is the accumulation of a few by the dispossession of the majority. It turns out that when public pensions fall, only a few beneficiaries, a few wealthy, a few wealthy can have the money or the capacity to invest in a private pension plan. And the same is true of public education, the same is true of public health and the same is true of all public services. Its medium- and long-term policy is to reduce all this as much as possible. You do not talk about your stability program because you prefer to make propaganda, but this is a debate to do so rigorously and, as you have said, with numbers. I even brought them their own numbers. Yeah, yeah, their own stability program numbers. You have that plan and therefore do not deceive the Spanish families, who have enough to try to survive day by day despite their economic policies. Mr Montoro, my colleagues will then explain the positive elements of our proposal and I hope that some will be able to pick it up, although it is a different model of society. It is a model of society where the preference and priority is to safeguard public services. It is a model of society where we want to end the deficit, the imbalances and the economic imbalance, this productive model based on low wages and international imbalances, but safeguarding public services. That can be done, but, as in the example of pensions I have put before you, it depends on political will. You can do things differently, but you don't want to. Therefore, they do not sell here as a technical problem which is a problem of political will. You have been betrayed by this last-minute agreement on pensions. They have challenged their own policy. You have shown the Spaniards that if you want to, you can, but you don't want to. We therefore reject the General Budgets of the State. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u37	Thank you very much. Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u38	Thank you very much, President. We have just explained why we are against these general budgets. Now we are going to make constructive criticism of them and we are going to show them how to put in place alternative accounts, accounts that count on people and guide an alternative country project. I warn you that this which we are going to present to you is not very different from what we have already explained last year, but to what it seems that you did not pay too much attention; well, except the Socialist Party, and you liked it so much that this year they have chosen to do something similar. We welcome you. [[Applauds]] First of all, I'll talk to you about income. As we told you, Spain is dedicated to fighting fraud, about half of what Germany or France dedicates. It is not that there are few means, it is that they are, moreover, misdirected. They are led by you, lords of the People's Party, the Cleptomaniac party, and I do not say this by Cifuentes. I'll explain it to you with a board, since you can't use power point here, see if you have it left. [[Shows a board in which you see two columns with words]] If we make a conservative calculation, we estimate that an appropriate policy to combat tax fraud in one year could lead us to raise EUR 350 million. [[Write the figure on the board]] In addition, if we create a burden of solidarity over the benefits of banking - such as that which you, the Citizens' and the People's Party, have vetoed before we could even debate here in Congress - we could enter 1 billion euros, which added to the tax on financial transmissions would give us 1550 million euros. [[Re-note the number on the board]] If we introduce a tax on fortunes and assets, such as that in France, without going further and, in addition, the sicavs are eliminated, we reach 1350 million euros. If, moreover, we eliminate tax benefits of a more regressive nature, such as those already mentioned by comrade Garzón, those that encourage, for example, private pension plans or socimis and, moreover, we increase taxes on savings in the case of real estate capital, we could reach 1470 million euros. Furthermore, if we introduce green taxation measures with the aim of approaching the European average, we could reach EUR 1650 million. So far the part related to the Treasury. Now let's explain to them how you can fill the Social Security hatchet. If we remove the ceiling that is right now on the contributions from the highest wages, we can make no less than an additional € 7250 million. [[Applauds]] If, moreover, we eliminate the bonuses, which have proved ineffective, to encourage employment, we can reach an additional EUR 17 billion. This is an additional €8950 million for Social Security. We have 15,350 million to finance public policies. Let's point out the main games that we can start in just a year. Firstly, a series of measures to ensure inclusive growth. Eliminating the pension revaluation index to 0.25 and ensuring that it is updated annually with the CPI and increasing minimum pensions so that there is none below the poverty line. This has a cost of 2200 million euros. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u39	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u40	Implementation of a guaranteed income programme for those households with incomes below the poverty line. This has a cost of €31 billion. Effective financing of the Dependency Act, EUR 25 billion. Shock plan to end precarious employment in the public administration and offer of public employment with twenty thousand places, 800 million euros. Youth employment plan and social housing rental plan, 11 billion and 700 million, respectively. Secondly, measures to promote purple growth and to end the gender gap in this country. Progressive equality of non-transferable paternity and maternity leave with 100 per cent of the salary, EUR 400 million. Plan for the eradication of macho violence, with the immediate launch of the State Pact against Macho Violence signed in this Congress and which is underfunded by Montoro's budgets, €1050 million. Children's schools from 0 to 3 years free of charge throughout the State, 3 billion euros. Finally, measures to transform the productive model towards green autonomy and knowledge. Plan to rescue science and R & D+i to recover the emigrant talent that has gone abroad or, even, the digitization of the economy, 1100 and 1240 million, respectively. Housing rehabilitation aid scheme, with special emphasis on energy efficiency, €1.3 billion. All these measures, which have a total cost of EUR 24 545 million, would entail, thanks to the multiplier of public expenditure and with a conservative forecast, an increase in economic growth of 3.5%, an increase in employment of 3.2%, resulting in additional revenue of EUR 3300 million. If we intend to maintain the deficit target by 3% this year, we would get an additional €9750 million from the government budget. With this we could afford to finance the progressive share of the self-employed, 22 billion, and a reduction in cultural VAT and basic products, 1625 million. It will turn out that the accounts can be squared, Mr Montoro, that alternative accounts can be squared in this country! [[Applauds]] With these measures we would achieve income and expenditure of 39.3% and 42.3%, respectively, in relation to GDP, something that would bring our welfare state closer to the average of our European analogues, which are 46.2% and 47.1%, far from where their general budgets drag us. On our website they have the details of the measures we propose, but I think it has become clear that things can be done differently. However, there are parties here that instead of wanting alternative accounts like this, instead of fighting for alternative budgets, will conform to yellow budgets like this. [[Show a yellow book]] Be careful with the color, it will not be that Mr. Zoido is required. [[Applauds]] We are going to point one by one to the parties that are going to support these budgets. Citizens, who came here a few months ago indignant with the Basque quota, which they called the coupon. Well, I don't know if you know that, but there's a coupon in these budgets, gentlemen of Citizens. [[Shows an expanded photocopy of an ONCE coupon ticket]] These budgets have the coupon inside, yes. I'll leave it here for you to remember. The PNV, which does not seem to present full amendments this year, giving support to these budgets, will continue to deepen centralisation, because these budgets too, gentlemen, have 155 within them. [[Shows a sheet with number 155.-Applause]] This year it is true that they have sold it very expensive, but to see how they pay for that reform that they propose of the pensions, because in these budgets there is no income, and if not, that Mr Montoro explain to us how they plan to pay it. As for Foro Asturias, which is also here, will vote in favour of budgets that contain investments that are 77 % lower than in 2009, and 54 % lower than in 2012 for Asturias, with an execution that was half in 2016 than budgeted. You've already been caught last year, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, and this year you're going to be caught again. You're gonna get your ass back, Mr. Oblanca. The PP just wanted to show you a photo, the photo of the pensioners, who are here very 'thank you' for the measures you include in these general budgets. [[shows a photo of a demonstration]] These pensioners who are indignant with the Government, are also indignant with these budgets, and will remain indignant until this country gives them what belongs to them and will not demobilize their promises. They want facts that prove that you are going to fulfill your new commitments. In short, gentlemen, Spain no longer wants crumbs. Spain wants a cake with another recipe, a cake that is its own and deserves, after so many years of sacrifice; it wants a country that can compete in innovation and not in costs. We, not only show you here with figures and with slate that is possible, but we are showing it to you in Madrid, Barcelona, Cádiz, Zaragoza, Oviedo, Valencia. [[Applauds]] We're proving that you can if you want to. The problem is that you don't want to, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u41	I give the floor to Mrs Martín González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u42	Well, I hope you've taken note of Segun's class, but as it looks like it's costing you, let's go over a little bit. These budgets of the PP and of Citizens arrive half a year late, the result of their inability to reach agreements and their isolation, an isolation that comes from their harmful management of the Catalan conflict, but also from their poor management of the accounts. You, in these budgets, are trying to stay well with Brussels by charging the cost of meeting the deficit to the autonomous communities and the municipalities; municipalities like Barcelona, which not only fulfils their obligations, but also invests more than any other administration in social policies; an investment that, by the way, has reduced evictions by 22% and helped to provide for about 7000 people in housing emergencies in the last three years. I am telling you, Mr Montoro, in case you want to explain it to your Minister of Development, Mr De la Serna, who two days ago dared to drop the argument - although by the level with which he was saying it we should call him chascarrillo - that the problem of abusive rents was the fault of Colau and Carmena. And it was said without despatch by a minister who year after year cuts the housing budget or who prides himself on the reform of the Rents Act that they carried out in 2013 and that it has turned out to be a catastrophe for so many people that all he wants is to be able to live on rent in this country. So a little serious, please. Perhaps, instead of suffocating the municipalities, what they could do is to learn from them; perhaps then things like the shame we had to live yesterday, when along with the PDeCAT, Citizens and the PNV approved you a new law of express eviction that will not solve the problem of occupations and, instead, will cause more evictions from vulnerable families without any guarantee of reallocation. [[Applauds]] And we also regret that the PNV will finally be put on the side of Citizens and the PP in a budget proposal that is not intended to punish Catalonia, but also punishes the rest of autonomous communities and municipalities that at the end of the day must face up to the problems of neighbours. This is not a war between administrations or between a government of one color against governments of another color fighting for the part of the cake that touches them, this is a war of the People's Party and Citizens against the welfare state, which the autonomous communities and the municipalities end up occupying. [[Applauds]] In these budgets, moreover, we see how after years of seeing the People's Party and citizens giving lessons on law enforcement, it seems that they have decided to change the script and jump off a feather the Statue of Catalonia. We already know that it was you who were collecting signatures against him, but, as you always preach, the statute is binding. Do you know what the statute contains in its third additional provision? In particular, it says that the percentage of investment in Catalonia must be equivalent to that of its GDP in relation to that of the whole State. Do you know what that amount is? About 19.2%. And do you know what their budgets are looking at? A 13.3%. And after this Mr Montoro comes here and he spends all his speech defending the credibility of his Government, after systematically failing to fulfil his commitments to Catalonia, after having said that there was no money for pensions and that today that money magically appears, a money that, however, will not solve the 39% gap suffered by women pensioners in this country. [[Applauds]] After having put her hand in the fire by Mrs. Cifuentes, to whom today someone casually leaks a video from more than seven years ago. Can you tell me where you see the credibility? I understand that you are going through a bad streak that is leaving you a bit of a lack of morale, but, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want citizens to believe you, there was an easier way to do it: not presenting budgets that were deaf to so many citizen demands, listening to the women that we left massively on March 8, instead of spending money on rescuing highways or continuing to support the banks in exchange for nothing. [[applause]] Maybe, and only maybe, so you'd be a little closer to someone trusting you more. However, by paraphrasing what the Vice-President of the Government was saying in her day, it would seem that you not only live outside the law, but live outside reality. And if the money isn't in the autonomous communities, it's not in the municipalities, it hasn't reached the families, it's not in the state pact against macho violence - which by the way, the feminist collectives are out here asking you where are those 200 million you promised and who haven't appeared - then what pockets is the money from the recovery you're talking about so much? Where is the wealth that the common people of this country have generated from work and effort while you were stealing at full hands and rescuing the banks? [[applause]] An effort that we have made especially by the women of this country, holding the precariousness on our shoulders, doing the tasks that you cut off and that you did not stop doing but that we assumed them. The crisis has had a woman's face and its supposed recovery budgets not only do not pay off that debt with half of the country but also wipe us out once again from their accounts. Where's the money? I'm done with the president. Where's the money? Well, to show you a button, Alberto Garzón commented. The €200 million in tax benefits that have been given to these investment companies that speculate on rental housing amounts, ladies and gentlemen, to more than half of the entire budget that their Ministry of Development spends on housing, as they hear. More than half of the entire state housing budget is, as always, not for citizens but for their own. Can anyone with common sense think this is normal with the problem we are having with rental prices today? If common has been the effort, common must be wealth, ladies and gentlemen; this is the maximum of which we advocate a policy in favour of the interest of the majority. Perhaps now they understand better why citizens go out on the street to claim their rights and not to praise them. Perhaps, even if they arrive late and arrive badly, they are in time to attend to the great transformation that we have experienced this year, the women's revolution and the new feminist common sense of this country that tells them, no more or less, that the goal of any government should be to put life at the centre of the accounts. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u43	Mr Fernández Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u44	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that these half-year late General State Budgets are another of the many samples of an Executive worn out, consumed, amortized and, if not yet liquidated, in minority and without a political plan for the future. These budgets are another chapter of the corset marked by the spending ceiling of the austerid policies. You act as a kind of obedient and acritic management or regency that fulfills the rigid scheme set by Brussels and the troika, hence the corset, the adjuster, the girder or the band that forces you to render a quasi-religious cult of fiscal consolidation policies and deficit. You, Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro, have repeated to us to the satisfaction that the crisis has been overcome, yet you bring us budgets that continue to be anchored in the cut-off scheme set in 2012. You only offer crumbs or patches, patches and patches that do not translate into an improvement in people's quality of life. You consolidate the cuts as if they were irreversible measures. They come to tell us that there is no backsliding in working tijeretas in wages, pensions, in the pharmaceutical coffer and in health, educational or social cuts. You want to force us to live in your anemic welfare state scheme and from En Marea we tell you that we do not share your model, Mr Montoro, and from the municipalities of change like A Coruña, Santiago or Ferrol we have demonstrated, and this I know it hurts you, that you can govern otherwise, that you can carry out a policy centered on the dignity and well-being of people and the common good. We oppose their budgets for all these reasons, but also because they are terrible and harmful to our country, to Galicia. You have frozen the envelope destined for the Galician territory, paralyze the investor rate, which has already dropped 437 million in 2017 compared to 2016, 33 % less, and for this year you are proposing a dizzying increase percentage, what irony, of 1,3 % compared to 2017. You don't have any future projects for Galicia. Where are the nearby trains to the Galician cities? Why do you allow the abandonment of productive sectors such as agriculture, fisheries and shipbuilding? Where are the investments in R & D & i? In technological development? In the environment? Or in the encouragement of the Galician language, father and mother of the Portuguese in its external and international diffusion? In 1933 - I am finishing president - eighty-five years ago in this same House, Daniel Castelao complained textually that the Galician railway had a long history and that it was bleeding injustice. By the way, you continue to leave Lugo incommunicado by rail in 2018. These 2018 General State Budgets, paraphrasing Castelao, bleed out injustice with regard to Galicia. Take good note of the Galician people: 25 April, forty-four years of democracy and Republic in Portugal. [[Mr. Fernández Bello shows a red carnation]] Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u45	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, how long has the Berlin Wall been down? It was 1989, wasn't it? Or was it 1988? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u47	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u48	I wanted to tell you that there has really been a change of ideas in the world, but history is a reflux of ideologies that are presented to us today in terms of confluences. The oldest thoughts of history confluence and the most failed. I have pointed out some phrases that I liked of the speeches of your ladies and gentlemen, as one of Mrs Martín, who used the following expression - I note it personally, not in my capacity as Minister of Finance, but for me -: putting life at the centre of the accounts. That's the general state budgets, that's exactly what they do. That is why we bring every year a law that makes more employment and more economic activity behind these numbers so that there is more welfare and the state in its public service offering can function, so that we face the great challenges of our modern world, such as climate change, and so that we can face the intolerable social challenges, such as gender-based violence. And then there's Mr. Garzón's expression. He likes dating, but, curiously, he never quotes Marxist economists. I don't know if he's fixing it. Let's see if one day of shared experiences you hear them; let's see if you dare because it is certainly difficult to quote someone. A politician, paraphrasing that the war was too important to leave to the military, said that the economy was too important to leave to the economists, but the economy is the life of the people, is the ability to generate wealth that people have and the application of that wealth to the people. If not, how is the economy done in a country? You have a vision of the economy - I have already explained it - practically from May 1968. By the way, this year has been fifty years since I started studying Economics at the Autonomous University of Madrid. Not bad, 50 years, but there's nothing left of that. I have nothing left of that, Mr. Churches. I've had a little hair in the past, but never like yours. [[Laughter]] I wish, I say, I wish I had, but it didn't give me time, it never really gave me for that; a little bit, but I assure you not, since I was fourteen years old. [[Laughter]] Finally, fifty years ago I started studying Economics and in those books and manuals that we were studying of economic structure, came the assertions that you make here, because they speak just like that economy, really proper on the other side of the Berlin Wall. They come up here and say: There is a right-wing government working for monopolies. And you will see what Esquerra says!, that we already know each other. He will go up and say: You must leave Spain because it is dominated by monopolies. It is the same underlying theory that fifty years ago, only that the world changed; the world today lives in a globalization that means the best opportunity for social development that humanity has ever known. That's why the Berlin Wall fell. By the way, I think I was wrong about the date, it was in 1989. That's why it fell, because it was a symbolic wall of a regime that, behind it, was the greatest social failure in our history. And that's what you want to resurrect here, the greatest social failure in our history. [[Applauds]] The biggest failure in terms of economic development, well-being and loss of freedoms inherent in regimes such as those that have been disappearing inexorably in the world. That is the risk of populism; you bring what is trying to be an emblematic representation of a society that does not exist. Do not confuse what is a public demonstration, which has every right to be made in a regime of freedoms, with what is a vibrant social reality, which pushes, which risks, which invests. Do you know how many SMEs and self-employed there are in Spain? Three million; those make country every day. Every day they get up early to do their business and every day they close their business to go back home making their own balance sheet to reinvest and risk. Those are the ones who are doing our country, and so are the companies, the multinational companies, those 'perverse' multinationals who invest in our country. That's why the numbers on that board - which I loved; I've always liked the boards; I didn't in vain learn economy on a board and then practiced economy on a board - do you know where they fail? In that his fiscal proposal would sink economic growth. With your tax proposal there would be no investment, there would be no job creation on each of these tax proposals. These fiscal proposals are aimed at the heart of economic growth. You do not understand it and do not accept it, and it is normal, because between communists and adlaters there is that left that has risen, that has come - all right, that is democracy - to this House as children of the crisis. [[applause]] But as the crisis slows down its pace and intensity, you are losing social and political influence. I am pleased that you have gone up to at least two speakers because you always distribute your time, which is very legitimate and also enriches - to me what powerfully draws my attention is how you warm each other up, do it frankly well; everyone embraces you when you finish, with your expressions and so on; it is more than parliamentary courtesy, it is really a group feeling that brings you together - but do you know what happens to you? They think they're making a new contribution to failed ideas. This is the summary that will make you, as the crisis disappears, become what you were, which is an attempt that we can call a romantic of ideas that have been catastrophic for humanity. Either you modernise your concept of what communism is, what you carry implicit in your populist messages, or you really will not bring any solution anywhere. Those municipalities that you have set as an example, called by you municipalities of change, are managing the budgetary balance because they are implementing the Budget Stability Act. [[Applauds]] Isn't that what you reproach me personally for in every one of my appearances? I thought it was superb. They have said that it is the demonstration that everything can be done: maintaining budgetary stability and making more social policy. These are the state budgets that we bring to the House; they are exactly the budgets. Neither of you - and there are already two blocks of amendments to the whole - has questioned the forecast of tax revenues for this year; neither has gone up to say that the budgets are unreal because of the forecast of revenue. This is an intellectual novelty. Indeed, this is the first time that it has happened to me; I do not know if it has happened to any previous Government, but it is the first time that the criticism of a budget does not start on the credibility of the tax revenue forecast. Well, if you don't start from that, do you find it wrong to raise the salary of the officials in the terms proposed here? Do the agreements with the trade union agents look bad to you? That's not what they're responding to. Now they have the opportunity to leave the board and answer specific things. Do you think it's wrong for me to raise staff salaries? Do you feel that the commitment to increase for 2019 and 2020 agreed with the trade union centres is wrong? Mr. Garzón, do you think that's wrong? Mrs. Martin, do you think that's wrong? I don't know how to explain myself anymore; I've reached the limit. [[Rumors]] Do they feel bad or do they feel good? I don't hear any arguments. You come here with some theories to give even the theory of taxation. Yeah, but do you think that climb is bad or not? Does it seem to you good or bad that we raise pensions, the lowest 3%? Do they feel bad or do they feel good? Is that not incorporated in the Budget Bill? Why do they say that there is now money that there was not before if it is incorporated in the budget bill? Do you think it's wrong or don't you think it's wrong? Do you think we don't do social policy when we raise the lowest public income? Isn't that social politics? Is that okay with you or is it wrong with you? Then there's the tax on pensions from private funds, which seems so atrocious to you. God damn it, that's taxing savings! Who would you think of? It is in the basic doctrine of the Public Treasury. Do you know what a tax incentive is? A tax incentive is a deferred income: as you will pay income when you have the returns from those funds, that is why it is deductible today. It's a basic principle of fiscal hacienda. Would you not fiscally stimulate savings? You are lucky, in quotes, that you govern - by the way, thanks to the Socialist Party, it is not that you govern with majorities in the so-called main municipalities of Spain; you govern with the support of the Socialist Party, we have already told you quite often, but there they are because each one chooses his or her partners on the way - because they are subject to the laws of stability. You came to those governments saying you wouldn't pay the debt, did you? Do you remember? And what happened? Did they find a lot of illegitimate debt not to pay it or are they paying the debt in those municipalities that have it? What I am asking myself - and, believe me, it is more than an intellectual rhetoric - is what would happen in Spain if we did not have the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability and we had governments like the ones you have. We were going to last two minutes because that's what they really mean when they boast, as Mr. Iglesias does in relative public statements, and they say: And we also lower the debt. This is great. [[Laughter]] It seems like a definite thing: And we also lower the debt we have in those municipalities; we do so well, we lower the debt. Of course, you've inherited these municipalities healthy; you've forgotten. [[Risa.-Protests.-Several Members: No, no]] They created surplus like the ones they have continued to generate. Today the municipalities have in Spain... [[Rumors]] Isn't that right? It's the numbers. Doesn't the Madrid City Council have a budget surplus similar to what it is recording in the 2017 financial year? Did the surplus not exceed EUR 1 billion when you arrived at the government? Isn't that right? Now there's more resources. Do you know why municipalities have more resources? Because there is more economic activity, because there is more activity in all fields of the economy and more fees, taxes and taxes are paid because there is more and more activity in construction. And it will not be because of the facilities that you are giving for economic development, that what you are doing is chasing entrepreneurs because they seem to them to be beings of another time. They understand nothing but in terms of income distribution without understanding what income generation is. Ladies and gentlemen, wages are freely determined in a market economy between workers, trade unions and employers, if not, why do we want trade unions? Do you know the social role of trade unions recognized in the Constitution? Represent workers in collective bargaining. The Government was raising public wages with the agreement of the trade unions and urged the private sector to do the same and reach wage agreements. There is a recovery of benefits that, increasingly, must go to the recovery of wages for the good of all. Do you know what the main result will be when there is a wage recovery in Spain? The fall of populism. That is going to be the first political consequence of the fall in wages in our country because that is what facilitates economic recovery. By the way, according to the EPA, in 2017 the number of employees increased by 537,000. Of these, 358 000 were on an indefinite contract; 67% of job creation, according to the EPA, was on an indefinite contract. Where do the figures, the other figures, those of precariousness in terms of temporality come from? That's not what our labour market says. In the fourth quarter of last year, 73.3% of employees had indefinite contracts, compared to 69% in 2007, although the comparison loses homogeneity because in 2007 there was much more construction sector. That's what happens, that we're recovering the economy and that's what I used to call a quality recovery because there's more and more jobs, there's more and more stability in jobs, which is what we're doing in the public sector too. All of this is allowing that economic growth, that recovery from confidence, that recovery from consumption, which is why we are calling for agreements in this House. I am done, Madam President, because we are not going to agree on anything; I am not going to end up as with the Socialist Group because I already know that there is not going to be an agreement. I want to make one thing clear to all the spokespersons of Podemos: you are politicians with prejudices, that is exactly the definition of your policy. They don't have a lot of ideas, and what's left of them is prejudice. Democracy in Spain was long before you arrived. Democracy and freedom are the basis of prosperity - that is what I referred to in my presentation this morning - and for there to be prosperity and confidence we need less prejudice and more bets, realistic ideas much more in line with what Spain means today in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montoro, I think you said that you started studying economics in the sixty-eight, and you know that in the sixty-eight there were a lot of people fighting for democracy and, probably - I even give you the benefit of the doubt - you too. There were a lot of people - parents, grandparents and grandmothers - fighting for democracy and you know what? Democracy meant more than being able to vote; it meant having public services, health and education; in fact, one of the slogans was: the children of the working class also want to go to college. Unfortunately, they are the same slogans that are being heard today because you are hindering those public services. [[Applauds]] So, of course, democracy is much more than that. We are all politicians here, you too, and you too have prejudices and ideology - the first thing is not to deny yourself - and we must bear in mind that if we talk about rigour, we also talk about income forecasting. You said you were surprised because you hadn't talked about this. You know why? Because last year you were wrong for €7 billion; in 2016, for €72 billion; and in 2015, for €4 billion. With that margin of error, you can't talk about rigor anymore. [[Applauds]] When we try to make our proposal, we do so with much more credibility. By the way, it has only increased in the first two months by 2% and you expect it to be 6% at the end of the year. I don't know what kind of economic miracle they're waiting for; he'll tell us about it. With regard to industrial policy, you said that the best is the one that does not exist; I even think that you have said something like that industrial policy is a communist matter. Mr Montoro, the weight of industry in the Spanish economy is 23 %, but in Germany it is 30 % and in Sweden 34 %. I do not think it is necessary to explain the benefits of having a good industry of high added value; it means being able to be more competitive in sectors that share much more income and allow much higher wages. But you're not providing that model, you're promoting the six-month, low-wage seasonal hospitality model with miserable labor relations. That's what his labor reform was about, his and the Socialist Party's previous, lowering wages. [[Applauds]] Industrial policy can be promoted if there is an intention to invest, for example, in science, which you do not have the slightest intention of doing, and we have already discussed this many years ago. Life in the center of the accounts. He liked the phrase, so I thought I understood it, but, you see, for there to be production there are two basic preconditions: that there be a planet and that we take care of our own families. And you, with your policies, have reduced the fight against climate change by 20% and are failing to comply with the fight against gender-based violence, which is a committed agreement, not to mention the reduction in public services. Do you know what that means? That you are ruining your own life, making it difficult for you to develop that life because, do you know what happens when people get less pension, when people don't have the capacity to have access to the Dependency Act? That all this basic and essential care for life is to be provided in the domestic sphere, normally, in a patriarchal structure like ours, by the women themselves. You, by destroying public services, are doing what you are doing is ending that precondition, and when you do not fight climate change, what you are doing is laying the foundations for the destruction of our planet. Those are their policies. I don't know if Mariano Rajoy's cousin has advised them again on climate change, but it is inconceivable that in 2018 we will have a 20% reduction in that item. Mr Montoro, you, with your skill and the advantage that you have unlimited time, try to caricaturize our proposal. A proposal which has rigor, a proposal with which you may not agree but which is sensible, which is subject to rules, which is based on different criteria, no doubt. A different model of society, of course, but a sensible proposal. When we say that you govern for a few, we say it not because it is a topic, but because, unfortunately, it is reality. You want me to tell you about Endesa? Do you remember Endesa, your government? It was a public enterprise - this is like a story -, its profits were for all and for all, 33 % was privatized, then 66 % and in the end ended up in foreign hands of private capital mainly by distributing dividends for extraordinary amounts - more than 14 billion euros -, literally plundered, when it was of all and of all. That's what you've done in the government. [[applause]] And you didn't want to talk about this. I've set you this example, but I could set you so many... I don't have time, I've got 20 seconds left, but I could give you a lot of examples. The problem is of political priority. You call yourself a liberal. It's a lie. Don't be false. Liberalism is also based on an axis, which is that of counterpowers. What counterpowers do you exert on big companies and the market? None. You are a very particular type of liberal; liberalism based on the socialization of losses and the privatization of profits. [[Applauds]] When things go wrong, it is nationalized so that we pay it among all, and when things go well, it privatizes. That's Bankia's case. The rule of spending, like virtually everything else, you do it according to what you think is most appropriate. You yourself have failed to comply with the rule of spending and have not sanctioned yourself; the City of Jaén, ruled by the People's Party, has also failed to comply with the rule of spending systematically without any kind of sanction; when that happened for small amounts in the City of Madrid you pulled out all the artillery. Don't tell me that's rigor or technique; that's a clearly identified policy with class interests, by the way. I want to finish with a sentence, since you like them. We have a proposal. Our proposal is to get people out of need, working families, because there are needs, we could talk about precariousness in the level of wages or precariousness in the type of contract, but the reality is that there is vital precariousness. It is very difficult to arrive at the end of the month in this country for policies like yours. Our policy is based on leaving that realm of necessity and entering a realm of freedom. This sentence is from Carlos Marx. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u51	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Marxism finally appeared in a pure state; Marxism that conquers the kingdoms - it meant it - or that conquers the heavens, Mr. Iglesias. Yours is the conquest of the heavens, it goes beyond the kingdoms; you are already in heaven. Communists know a lot about industry and everything. [[Rumors]] They tell people since birth what it's going to be for, what it's going to be useful for, what it has to do for the rest of its life. Hey, you know what that's called? The opposite of freedom. Do you know what your philosophy is, what you just exposed here? This is exactly what in this country, Spain, failed when it tried to be autarchic and created from an authoritarian regime an industry that was not competitive, and there came a time when this country, called Spain, did not have the currency to pay the following oil imports for the operation of that industry and that country broke. It broke in the fifties, then broke again on several occasions and was about to break in this euro crisis. But there are already many differences between that country and the one you mark. You have come here to establish those criteria or differences, and of course we have absolutely different conceptions, but no longer of the economy, but of life, of the motives that drive life. It is absolutely basic and consubstantial to the formation of the human being, to the concept of education, to the values, Mr Garzón, to the fundamental values that inspire human action. That's what makes us different. That is why I was saying that it is normal and that that is democracy, but what I cannot admit is that you quote, as if it were today, a promise of conquest of the kingdom of freedom when it has been demonstrated in history that what it has led to is, precisely, the condemnation of part of humanity where that regime has been exercised. Or wasn't it? Or wasn't the Czech spring there in May 1968? Was it not about the ashes of repression in Hungary in the 1950s? Isn't that what was there in that expression and that call for freedom? [[Applauds]] But you, who are presented as what you are presented, are ancient as the essence itself. [[Mr. Garzón Espinosa shows the State General Budgets Bill for 2018]] I was telling you, you have an important political representation today, but from the moment we have an economic recovery and a job creation, from the moment we are really a country of freedoms integrated into that great community of freedoms that is Europe, this of the troika that you say points us out by the way of the world, that of the crushing of public services... But when have there been more public services than now? When the Socialist Party ruled, total public spending on GDP was 39% in 2007. Last year we closed it at 41%. Where is the disappearance of public services? It's in his rhetoric. It is not in the figures for that supply of public services. Is that right or not? Isn't that right? [[Mr. Garzón Espinosa makes negative gestures]] Isn't GDP that and total public spending isn't that? Just like social protection. What was the social protection in Spain in 2007? It was EUR 138 billion. What was the one closed in 2017, not the one we bring in budgets anymore? It has been EUR 192 billion; EUR 50 billion more with a right-wing government. Look what, 50 billion euros more. That's the reality. And you - I insist - do not bring proposals. Their proposals would crush well-being, crush economic recovery, and if today they are ruling where they are ruling - I insist - it is because they are under laws that are the ones that want to promote their destruction, their disappearance in this House. That's what they're trying to do and that would really lead us to the antithesis of recovery on the other side. It would lead us to the crisis, to unemployment, to not being able to pay for basic public services and, ultimately, to make that great motor which is the State of social welfare not viable, possible, feasible and realistic as it is today, increasingly firmly, it is. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u53	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Tardà i Coma, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, there's no pulse in your budgets. [[Rumors]] They are the budgets of a government without a pulse, they are the budgets of a Spain without a pulse that is unable to offer neither life nor future to the young, to the working population of tomorrow; to the men and women who in their biological fullness try to build happy and dignified lives, nor to the pensioners, after decades of hard work. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u55	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u56	Generations all immersed in uncertainty, when not in frustration, without future and without hope. Hope has faded as you have dynamized the social state. It is the same pulseless Spain that was referred to as the president of the Council of Ministers, Francisco Silvela, in a very famous article entitled Spain without pulse, published shortly after the declaration of independence of Cuba. Silvela wrote in that article: Spain is willing to spend until the last peseta against the ungrateful Cubans - he wrote -, about which the Spaniards felt superior in ardor warrior. However, it was Spain that was unable to overcome latifundism, oligarchy, reactionary prejudices, the servitudes of clientelism that caused its decline. An oligarchy which you also serve today by hypothecating competitiveness, by putting nepotism before meritocracy, by burying entrepreneurs and innovators under the slab of amiguete capitalism and by generating an increasingly dialecticised society, by towing their general budgets. Today, Silvela's pulseless Spain is her Spain, because you only keep one pulse, only one pulse. They're just holding their fratricidal pulse against the Catalans. Look, the balconies of Spain and Madrid have been filled with monarchic flags, not because they are proud of a Spanish Nobel prize, not because they are proud of the international successes of a Spanish industrial corporation, not because they are proud of the Spanish sporting triumphs, but because, in the absence of a future project and in the absence of external enemies, frustration is channeled through hatred of the inner enemy, the Catalans. It's Catalanophobia. This is Spain who fires the policemen destined in Catalonia with the A for them! It is Spain that shouts Puigdemont to prison!, and that resonates so much in the Madrid press. It is Spain that gives free bar to the repression of October 1 by the mouth of Philip VI. Never would the Queen of England have addressed the Scots as Philip VI addressed the Catalans. This is Spain, which executes revenge and contempt through the judges of the Supreme Court. This is Spain, which is self-righteous against Europe in violation of civil rights. And, above all, the most frightening thing: it is Spain that frightens the Spanish democrats to silence, which makes Spanish democrats heroes who rebel against this situation and sympathize with Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Last year you, Mr Montoro, in one of your answers made in Montoro - which have a certain genius, certainly - addressed me and asked me: what do you have against Spain? Then I told him the same thing that I am now obliged to say: against the Spaniards we have nothing; moreover, we feel brothers in Iberia. But against its economic policy and against its conception of Spain we have everything against it. Today it is I who ask you: what do you have against Catalonia?, what do you have against Catalan citizenship - a good part of it non-independenceist - to make these anti-Cathalan budgets? Another thing. You've met Oriol Junqueras and treated him. You are the Minister of the Kingdom of Spain and he is the Counsellor of Economics. I ask you: what do you have against him so that his judges - I repeat knowing what I am saying: his judges - have been in pre-trial detention for six months as if he were a terrorist? Mr Montoro, without the phobia to Catalonia you would not present these budgets here today. You know why? Because I would not be a minister, because it is Catalanophobia that allows you to be in power. Moreover, it is the same Catalanophobia that makes Citizens grow, the same Catalanophobia that has paralyzed the PSOE and it is the same Catalanophobia that punishes our friends of Podemos. This is the reality. [[Applauds]] But maintaining power does not offer citizens a project for the future. This conception of power as a chain of favors is the cause of Spain without pulse that Silvela denounced. And he wrote in that article Silvela, a hundred years ago: 'The turbulences are channeled, the rebellions are repressed... but the heart that stops beating announces decomposition and death'. And of course we're talking about death. After three years of economic miracle Montoro, 2015, 2016 and 2017, there are more deaths than births and last year 32,000 more deaths than births. This victory of death goes hand in hand with the victory of pain and suffering and is reflected in Spain without the pulse of evictions: 60,754 evictions in 2017; 166 families released every day and without offering them a housing alternative, as mandated by the United Nations and all human rights courts. How can you form, Mr Montoro, a family with a temporary contract and a salary of less than 1000 euros? How can you get a mortgage with a precarious job? How can you survive if you can't find a rent for less than 700 euros in the big cities? You know that in all the countries of the European Union the housing stock reaches 30, 35, even in some country 40%, which has allowed structural moderation in rental prices. You had the golden opportunity in 2012 to provide public administrations with a large social housing park. With the $77 billion injected into the bank bailout, the state became the owner of hundreds of thousands of homes. They could have been handed over to the municipalities to rent them at social price, but you chose the Sareb, which, in theory, had to return the 55 billion real estate assets received. What's the reality now? That in each year the losses are increased. That today's taxpayers and their children and grandchildren will continue to pay the ransom. They have turned - and this we will never forgive - the human suffering into the most important factor for the accumulation of profits and, moreover, without any social counter-performance; that is, rewarding those who commanded the operation: Mr De Guindos, installed in the canongy of the vice-presidentship of the European Central Bank, and - revolving doors - his lieutenant, Mrs Belén Romana, on the board of directors of the Bank of Santander, who was the financial entity that most benefited from the management of this person of the Sareb. For this reason, Mr Montoro, your budgets are also examples of Spain without a pulse, of precariousness and of the low cost, an evolution of the income of the Social Security that does not allow to cover the payments of the pensions, which is why they have emptied the fund of the pensions: thirteen million citizens at risk of poverty, 38 % youth unemployment, consolidation of the machoist violence, for whose combat they contribute 80 million of the 200 committed in the pact of State; progressive devaluation of the Law of dependency for lack of funding and Spain, again, converted into a country of migrants. And I ask you: where have the benefits of Spanish GDP growth 2015, 2016 and 2017 gone above the euro area GDP growth? I answer: to the big fortunes, to the big corporations. And how? Through their fiscal policies, their economic policies, their labour policies and their budgets; which, by the way, I think it cannot deny that it makes the rich richer and the poor richer and poorer. For this reason, its budgets are also the paradigm of Spain without a pulse in the face of globalization. When the crisis came, the most advanced countries increased spending on education, university and R & D+i; instead, in your pulseless Spain you cut, so much so that in 2017 not a third of what was budgeted for R & D+i has been executed. And in this context, let's see the Minister of Education and Culture emulating Millán Astral and the 'death intelligence' singing the Legion's anthem, while young researchers have to mallive or seek work in universities and laboratories around the world. And, of course, with this cut they damaged the territories that, like Catalonia, had indeed provided resources for innovation. They boycotted this investment, as they had boycotted investment in renewable energy years ago, 55,000 ruined families, and liquidated the energy transition to a more economically and environmentally sustainable model. Three questions, Mr. Montoro, three. Why in these budgets do we pay supposed cost overruns to electricians who have the greatest benefits in Europe? Why are we paying one of the most expensive bills of light on the continent? Why do they impose a sun tax and refuse business solutions such as closed networks in industrial polygons or seasonal power contracts for regants and fruit growers? Here goes the answer, Mr Montoro, the answer that you will never give us: to be able to benefit the five major companies of the electric oligopoly, on whose boards of directors have sat former ministers, former presidents of the People's Party and also of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and all this to the detriment of a true economy based on SMEs, innovation and meritocracy. But, Mr Montoro, in your Spain without a pulse they do not count the merits, they count the friends; they do not count the general interests, they count the private interests. By the way, sometimes using practices that, if not corrupt, are at least at the border of corruption. I will give you three examples: Castor depot project, Madrid radial motorways and High Speed. With regard to the Castor, a project of 500 million that Florentino Pérez turned into 800, then in 1350 and which will ultimately cost 5000. Today the project is failed, its hibernation continues to be paid, Florentino paid and will end up costing - I say - 5 billion with the interests. Who wants to know how you pay to look at the gas bill or to analyze the lack of competitiveness of some companies that use this energy resource. Madrid radial highways? Unnecessary. Why? Because Madrid has free parallel motorways. Why did they do it? It does not seem casual that Mr Bárcenas pointed out income from some of the directors of the beneficiary companies, coinciding with the dates - check - of the award of the contracts. What is the observable? That of the fifteen motorways built by the Aznar governments, nine have broken; 5 billion publics dedicated to the rescues, money that we also paid the Valencians and Catalans, after forty years of paying tolls and no one has rescued them. Third case in which private interests have prevailed over the public: High Speed. They have spent 50 billion, the longest high-speed network in the world after China. Why don't you say here and now - and this has a translation in the budgets, of course - why you don't go up and say here that it's one of the causes of the cuts, that all but one tranche is deficit, that it's only used by 2% of the population, that has led to the abandonment of investments in neighbourhoods and mid distance? Impacts on Rodalíes Barcelona and Tarragona, thousand. By the way, non-compliance with all the commitments made by Zapatero and Rajoy. Just as it is the cause that today in Extremadura, for example, there is a railway network proper to the 19th century. And, of course, a high speed that has relegated the Mediterranean rail axis that should articulate the most powerful economic axis of the Iberian peninsula. A high speed that responds to the irrational will of the government in charge: AVE in Seville with a Seville president, AVE in Castilla and León with a President of Valladolid, AVE in Malaga with a Minister of Fomento Malaga, AVE projected in Galicia with a Minister of Fomento Gallego. Do you guess where the current Minister of Development intends to take the AVE? Mr Montoro, Spain without a pulse is also perpetuated in military spending. Look, Silvela wrote in this same article: 'There is no need to fake arsenals and shipyards where there are only buildings and staff who keep nothing and build nothing'. More than a hundred years have passed and as if they were again planning to declare war on the United States, as in Silvela's times, I say, they keep the waste. Since the crisis began, Ministry of Defence expenditure has increased by 40%, by almost 4 billion, from 5800 to 9600. And in addition, over the past 15 years, more has been spent than budgeted. This year, another 13 billion. And all this blessed by the head of state, Felipe VI, who, continuing with the family tradition, has no regret of appearing as if it were a commercial of the arms industry alongside clients of the state. By the way, clients who are used to being representatives of regimes that violate human rights. Paying and silence, this is the role that Spain without a pulse reserves to Catalonia, the Valencià Country and Les Illes, which is well demonstrated in the territorialized investment provided for by these budgets: Catalonia: 13.3% of investment; population, 16%; GDP, 19.2%. Balearic Islands: investment, 1.7%, population, 2.3; GDP, 2.57. Valencia: investment, 7.3; population, 10.6; GDP, 9.3. And, to top it off, you know that after that the investment executed is much less than the one budgeted. That is why we are talking about espolio, indeed, we are talking about economic espolio. Why does the investment that on average receives a cantabre or a castellanoleonese exceed 400 euros, while the investment that receives a Valencian does not reach 200 euros? As the Valencians and the Valencians know - and remember that today, April 25, the National Day of the Valencia Country is celebrated - when evil sees d'Almansa, all reach. Given these budgets, Mr Montoro, you must not be surprised that a very important part of the Catalan people do not want to be ruled by this pulseless Spain any more. Note, in the 19th and 20th centuries Catalonia tried to help regenerate Spain, but the oligarchic and client Spain - so well reflected in these budgets - rejected it. The last attempt was carried out by Pasqual Maragall, and Esquerra too, but Spain without a pulse dynamized the status that the Catalan people had voted in referendum. As of 2012, the sovereignist parties have won the elections in Parliament. Any European state would have negotiated, but you ignored the Catalan claims, despised the Catalan people. And, as we already told Mr Rajoy in the investiture debate, criminalizing the election results of 27 September 2015 would lead to a cul-de-sac scenario in which there would again be political prisoners. He laughed at us, even said, referring to my person, that we were afraid. The facts, unfortunately, have given us reason and now it is you who are afraid. In other words, the Spanish majority has had no hesitation in abusing the Catalan demographic minority, as has been reflected year after year in the General Budgets of the State, despite the existence of a fiscal deficit recognized by its ministry of 10 billion. By the way, the last report by the Conselleria d'Economia of the Generalitat de Catalunya raises the figure to 16 billion. By the way, a recent information from a councillor who is commanded by you, because you are the councillor of Catalonia's Economy at the imposition of 155. Then, once again, you were abused and certainly rewarded electorally because contempt and intransigence in relation to Catalonia is profitable electorally in Spain, but the majority of the Catalan people could not resign, we could not resign ourselves to this abuse, and you know perfectly well that on October 1st we decided. And it is so true that this escalation of the conflict, which we cannot deny, also has its reflection in the general budgets of the State - for example, the increase in the departures for the police or for the CNI itself - as it is true that it has already taken on a European dimension and the German, Belgian, British and Swiss judges will discern whether you meet European democratic standards or whether you are blinded by the Catalanophobic atmosphere that presides over this draft budget and the context in which they are presented. In short, Mr Montoro, the reputation of the Kingdom of Spain is threatened by democratic involution and the poor financial situation, as evidenced by its inability to reduce debt. The Kingdom of Spain closes 2017 with the biggest deficit in the European Union, which also castifies these General State Budgets. Obviously, you will approve these budgets that have been prepared jointly with Citizens, okay, which can give an image - I think it is a false image, a mirage -, I recognize it, even of fortress. His reasoning could be as follows: if I count on the support of Citizens, who intend to overcome me regarding the aggressiveness against the Catalan, even sometimes with ribetes somewhat joséantonians, if we count on the Tajani in turn, if we count on the quietness of the PSOE and if we count on the silence, it is true, of the European governments, why do we have to assume the stage of dialogue with Catalonia? Why disscalate? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] On the contrary, go after them!, to ridicule. The end of the King's Cup the other day I think it was an exercise to pretend to ridicule; to deny even the rapprochement of prisoners, to besiege rights and their General State Budgets. And, said in silver: hoist, try to hoist the Catalans so that they will not try again for at least twenty years. Do you know what I'm telling you, Mr. Montoro? Bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. I'll try to explain it to you with a simile, and believe me, I have no desire to be petulant. The European governments represent the active defences of the democratic building that is the European Union, as firefighters are the active protection of a building in the face of a fire. Do you count on these governments? Yeah, that's right. These governments are still based on the idea that the Catalonia-Spain conflict is a Spanish internal affair. But you do not want to realize, you do not want to recognise, even though I think you are already beginning to realize that there are also passive protections in European democracies, that is, extinguishers that extinguish fires caused by the violation in some European state of fundamental rights. And do you know what these passive protections are? I say this to you: the independent judicial system - independent - of the European States, the independent media and very, very strong organisations for the defence of human rights and civil rights. And in the face of this authoritarian madness, that of you, these passive protections have already been activated. Therefore, in front of Spain without a pulse that leans towards the dialectics of defeating and defeating Catalans, in its imaginary - it is the imaginary, Mr Rivera - 1714-1939, we raise the democratic resolution. Difficult and complex? Yeah, I recognize him. It is a difficult and complex terrain that we will have to address because you have placed us in the ideological, judicial and - I acknowledge - emotional confrontation. Proof of this are prisoners and exiles; democrats, prisoners and exiles. Let me now conclude, Mr President, by addressing you with the utmost solemnity that deserves the significance of the moment to fix the position of Republican Left, a position that we will maintain in the coming months. In view of the fact that it is not guaranteed that a general policy debate, called the State of the Nation, will take place, we have an obligation to set our position. A few weeks ago, our position was set in a motion that was voted on in this Parliament, which urged the Spanish Government to implement, on the basis of the recognition of the democratic mandate emanating from the ballot box on 21 December 2017, a bilateral dialogue with the Government with the aim of reaching a democratic resolution to the demands expressed permanently in Catalonia. This is the Republican position for the coming months. It is true that you will be able to extend the phase of confrontation, and we count on it; it is true that you will be able to draft and approve anti-Cathalan budgets, of course; it is true that you will be able to increase the repressive escalation with harsh and massive penalties, yes; it is true that you will be able to try to keep the silence of the European governments, you will, of course, do everything possible to achieve it. But listen carefully, members of the Spanish Government and representatives of all the political forces present here, we will continue to lead a civic, peaceful and democratic process, although some would like it to be neither civic nor peaceful nor democratic in order to reduce everything to a public order problem. I am finished, Mr President, and I would like the members of the Spanish Government present here to take note of the finality and effect of being able to assess our message. You will be able to extend the phase of confrontation - it is true, and we will suffer -, you will even be able to resist entering the next phase, that of dialogue and negotiation, but with this you will only make the abyss between Catalonia and Spain deeper. And make three things clear to them. One, that democracy always ends up winning. Two, that Catalonia will be what Catalans want; whatever Catalans, independenceists and non-independenceists want. And three, which in front of Spain without a pulse, unable to offer life and future to Catalans, will continue to grow in Catalonia the eagerness to make possible a more just society socially in the form of a Catalan republic. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tardà, a member of a democratic government of Spain is speaking to you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] A minister who is a Democrat is speaking to you, and a Democrat cannot accept in a House like this, as we are this afternoon, that you say shut up to the Democrats. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Right]] It's exactly the opposite. That's respect for freedom. Freedom is coexistence. Spain is today an absolutely democratic, absolutely European country. Europe is a club of democracies; we cannot and must not understand a Europe other than that. To be a member of that Europe you have to keep all the canons of democracy, and democracy, Mr Tardà, is what allows us to defend your ideas this afternoon in this House and I have some very contrary ideas of what you have expressed here today, because you had to have come up here, on a day like today, to acknowledge that it has been the Generalitat governed by you, the Generalitat governed by Esquerra, that has endangered coexistence in Spain. It has been a risk to the stability of Spain and to the recovery of the economy of Catalonia and of Spain as a whole. [[Applauds]] That is what you have done, the greatest irresponsibility, which goes against the very essence of democracy and the pursuit of the general interest. Go up and recognize it; recognize it at once, that's really it. What's that October 1st? [[Mrs. Capella i Farré makes the gesture of voting]] What you did was pass absolutely illegal referendum laws in the Parliament of Catalonia on 1 October, absolutely contrary to the law of laws that makes you sit in that seat and that I am occupying the rostrum. That's what we're dealing with right now. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: That's it!]] Why have we come to this situation? Because years ago there was an economic crisis in Spain, and you and other political groups decided to abdicate their responsibility in Catalonia, which was to face that economic crisis that was destroying Catalonia's welfare, employment and public services. But, of course, it was easier to build an opposite political discourse, it was easier to blame others, it was easier always the outside enemy; and the outside enemy was in you. I will remind you that twice, when Esquerra has ruled Catalonia, Catalonia has broken. [[Applauds.-Mrs.Capella i Farré: No!-Protests by Mrs.Jordà i Roura]] It is so objectively. You are part of the Catalonian tripartite and left Catalonia absolutely ruined to the point that the Catalonian Generalitat had to appeal to the patriotic bonds. Imagine a government that has to call the patriots to buy the bonds, because it has no one to buy the bonds in terms of trust; because it cannot go to an international financial market that allows it to continue to finance its well-being, its public services. But what are you talking about, Mr. Tardà? What you have been is unfaithful to the same sense of the laws that protect you, that protect us all, that protect us democrats in Spain, and I emphasize it, democrats in Spain. [[a Member of Parliament: Very well!]] You don't come up here for another second to represent all the Catalans or to represent all the Democrats in Spain, because you don't have that title. [[Applauds]] It is not acceptable for me to do so. It is not permissible for you to do so, who have been the protagonists of the greatest institutional disloyalty that can be done when you have responsibilities of government, which is not to comply with the laws. What sense does it make that those who have failed to comply with these laws now do not respond to the rule of law of non-compliance with these laws? What is the rule of law if it is not precisely the enforcement of that law? How is it possible that a president of the Generalitat de Catalunya who is appointed by a law fails to comply with the law by which he has been appointed? What kind of democracy is that? If we are to do so we will continue to say that democracy is really what suits each of you and what you represent, and so we come to such a reductionism that it is impossible for us to be no longer in Spain, but in Europe and in this normal world, but we would be in something else. By the way, when they choose from fellow travellers to political formations that are anti-everything; it is not that they are communists, it is that they are anti-everything: anti-European, anti-Spanish, anti-capitalist and anti-loco. [[Applauds]] These are your fellow travellers or what you understand by the representation of Catalonia. Catalonia is much bigger. I say this to you and to everyone who comes after you: I am a Spanishman who cannot understand Spain without Catalonia; I simply cannot understand that. So obviously the Catalans and all the Spaniards will decide their future, and that is democracy and what we do when specific issues are voted on in this House or in the Parliament of Catalonia. By the way, what is being voted on in the plenary session of the Parliament of Catalonia today, while you come up here with a political perrata like the one you have thrown out? Do you know what is being voted on in the Catalan Parliament? The recovery of the extra pay of the officials of the Generalitat of the year 2012. That is what we dedicate ourselves to when we have the temporary occupation of being advisors to the Generalitat, to promoting that the officials pay; and others to go up to the public stands with a rhetoric of destruction of the welfare of the officials no longer, but of what has been the overcoming of the crisis in Catalonia and throughout Spain. Because you are going to deny, Mr Tardà, that since the beginning of this crisis, I mean when this crisis is already erupting that becomes a real crisis of the euro and we are developing extra funding for Catalonia, that is not what has allowed public services in Catalonia, hospitals in Catalonia, public schools in Catalonia or social benefits to continue? Hasn't it been the Supplier Payment Plan or the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, that's not what has allowed Catalonia to work? Before you carried out that absolutely illegal, not illegitimate, but illegal dynamic, Catalonia was at the head of Spain's economic recovery, which is its site, because it is one of the great engines. Catalonia is an engine of Spain, but at the same time it needs the rest of Spain to be able to grow and create jobs as fortunately it continues to be produced in Catalonia and Spain as a whole. That is why you, who have promoted the application of Article 155. [[Protests.-Laughter.-Mrs.Capella i Farré: That is not true, you have applied it. On top!-Applause]] They come up here with an incomprehensible speech. Mr. Tardà, I've known you for a while, but this afternoon has been complete. From the Cuban War - which is indeed the origin of many nationalisms in our country - to high-speed trains, which seem to reach other parts of Spain when all the capitals of Catalonia are connected by AVE and with the rest of Spain by AVE. Do you mind if the AVE develops in the rest of Spain? The speech you made today has been really anthological. It's hard for me to sort out the answers. From the AVE to October 1, from the abyss that already qualifies as sentimental. If there's a sentimental breakup going on, you're responsible. [[Mrs. Capella i Farré: No, no]] Ask yourself why they are provoking it, why they dominate the general interest of Catalans. Or is it that Catalans of which you feel globally representative, because you come up here and believe Catalonia... [[Protests by Mrs. Capella i Farré.-Rumors]] Hey, this is like I'm coming up here and believing Spain. Can you imagine that situation?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u59	Mr. Montoro, just a moment. Please, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u60	You represent a part of Catalonia, the part that voted for you to be here and voted for you with democratic laws, which is the opposite of October 1. [[Rumors]] What was October 1st? A referendum? Can a referendum be convened without a public budget? [[Several Members: Ah! Ah!-Rumors.-Protests.]] You, your political attitude and the arrival of Esquerra to the Government of Catalonia in 2015 led the Government of Spain to introduce controls in the execution of its budget, because we had every suspicion that they would incur illegalities. [[a Member: Very well]] That is why the Spanish Government has been acting on Catalonia's public finances ever since. You, in your public discourse in the economic sphere, said that economic recovery and job creation in Catalonia would be a priority. They fooled the Catalans, they fooled all the Spaniards. [[Mrs. Capella i Farré: No, no.-Applause]] That's what they did when they decided from September 2017 to pass that law of disconnection and that law of referendum, clearly unconstitutional. No democracy works that way, Mr Tardà, no democracy. Nowhere in the world would it be acceptable for you to overcome that democracy by breaking the barriers of legality. Therefore, Mr Tardà, your responsibility is that Catalonia return to normality as soon as possible, and there will be no normality if there is no compliance with the law. It's the only way to get to normal. But, Mr Tardà, representatives of the Republican Left of Catalonia and other political groups, normality must be achieved and it must be achieved now. It is clear that there is no other way, but not only to end or not the application of an exceptional article of our Constitution, but to restore the true normality that Catalan society and Spanish society need, as a whole, because we are not, as you say, neighbours to get along well. No, we're the same, which is much better than being neighbors. We are with each other, formed for centuries, together, and you are the ones who are inventing a story, a rhetoric and feelings that have no basis. That is what you must explain, that is the real substantive responsibility that you must explain. It's enough to open abysses. What the Spanish Government has done has been to make it easier for Catalonia today to be in economic recovery and job creation, despite the massive, very important and unfortunate, run away from companies that have precisely caused you as a threat to its policies in an assumption that it was not going to happen in any way, which is - as it is not going to happen, let us say it naturally - Catalonia's independence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to Mr Tardà i Coma.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u62	Mr. Montoro, tell me where you keep the crystal ball, the glass ball to know that never, ever, ever Catalonia will be independent, because that will be decided by the Catalans. [[applause]] By the way, I've never heard myself speak on behalf of all Catalans, because I have people very close to me who are not independenceists. I mean, don't tell me that I speak on behalf of all Catalans, because to me as a compatriot he is a Catalan independenceist as a non-independent Catalan. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, yes, yes, remember that I am Catalan, only Catalan, and I recognize that I am Spanish, but being is the essence and being is transitory, being is transitory. History will tell whether we will be independent or not, but remember that history has sometimes accelerated like a bare horse. By the way, the patriotic bonds were issued by a government of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia with the support of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] It was supported by the People's Party. In Bavaria, he was dissatisfied with how they were treated from a fiscal point of view. There was no need for the Bavarians to demonstrate, there was dialogue, the German Constitution was reformed and a political conflict was resolved. I mean, there are different traditions. On the one hand, there is the tradition of resolving conflicts democratically in history, and there are thousands of examples, and on the other, the tradition of responding and attempting to resolve conflicts in an authoritarian way, and you are part of this school. Still, look at what I told you today. I have marked the position of Esquerra and we will work, yes, yes - I don't know if it will last a year, two, ten or fifteen - but this has no return. Look, the independenceists had never gone that far - October 1 - nor had we ever been so many. Do you know what's going on? That you believe you have signed a policy with the non-independence Catalans for which you will never, never, ever be, and instead of worrying about how you try to turn the independenceists into non-independenceists, you are implementing policies that I believe are against your goals. [[Applauds]] But as we believe in the democratic resolution, we will not cease until we sit, feel, yes, and have a relationship. It will cost or cost less, even someone will have to go through jail and we may have to suffer a lot, but in the end the solution will be dialogued of course, and what now seems crazy will be the basic approach to resolving the conflict. I believe that our merits - and forgive petulance - are transparency, roundness and I would even say that the honesty with which we politically and intellectually try to present ourselves here before you, because we could have a somewhat more testosterone response, yes, because we have friends in prison and others who will enter, and instead our response is a bet for dialogue, now, from the recognition of some scenarios. [[applause]] Nothing will be the same, Mr. Montoro. Nothing will be the same. In the twenty-first century there is no democracy without the consent of the citizens. If there is no consent of the citizens there is no democracy, this is fortunately so. Mr Montoso, if you think I have doubted that you are a Democrat, or you do not know me or you are insulting us without wanting to. You cannot believe that we believe that you are not democrats. There is a very important political problem, which is not from now on, which is already tens of years old, we talk about a historical problem, we talk about centuries. I suppose we want the twenty-first century, you and we, to be the century of conflict resolution. Well, this is our bet. Now get up here and if you want, you'll tear me apart. [[A lady MP: My mother!]] Mr. Rajoy told us we were scared. Well, listen, I'm not saying they're afraid of you; but now you've raised the fucking thing by believing that you're gonna solve something with the fucking thing. There's no fucking solution, Mr. Montoro. The fuck generates fear and fear is anonymous to intelligence, and above all to political intelligence. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Tardà, in conclusion, according to your interpretation, the government that I represent, we are democrats, says that we do not doubt it. But he ended up saying we're just fucking democrats. [[Rumors]] What you have just said is coherent and intellectually sound. You do not distinguish what a democracy is, it seems to me, Mr Tardà. [[Rumors]] We are in the twenty-first century; democracy is the government of the majority with respect for minorities. [[Rumors]] How can you say, as by giving a lesson in democracy, that one cannot do - as one of those we have heard there also said - democracy without people? Man, of course! If democracy is people. It's really amazing that one has to listen to these things here. Even other political groups who, when they arrived - remember? - took possession of their seats saying: at last there are people here! Man, I'd swear there were people here already. In the last elections we have voted for all those who are here twenty-four million people in Spain; in all of Spain. Twenty-four million people. And some vote one thing and some vote another, and there's a respect for the other. That's democracy. It's not replacing the other one. It's not replacing and nullifying the other. Democracy is the government of the majority and a majority must be brought together to change laws. [[Rumors]] That's democracy. You have every right to be independent, everything! [[A Member: Thank you!]] But he has no right to fail the laws governing Spain. [[Applauds]] None, do you understand? Do you clearly understand that? Because it's not that hard. It's not that hard, Mr. Tardà. It is not that difficult; and you have been here for a few years, with what this Parliament represents, with the vote of millions of people who represent this Parliament. Because you have been voted for in Catalonia in order to be able to sit in this Parliament. But you are representing a delegation of confidence in the whole of national sovereignty. That's democracy. Therefore, Mr Tardà, the example you have given me from Bavaria, that it is a fiscal debate, but who has refused to solve the tax problems? Has the Spanish Government done so when it has had in the greatest crisis to provide the financing mechanisms - which is taxation, the complement of taxation - so that the public services in Catalonia can remain open? Isn't that what a government really has to do, the duty of a government? In the end, it fulfils its obligation. But what does that have to do with breaking the law? Can a ruler skip the law? That is the question and what has happened in Catalonia. So let's see if we are all able to close this chapter and enter normality, which as I said is very simple in democracy: it is to respect the law. Gathering the majorities to change the law, but that requires an effort - it is true - we must convince many people, millions of people, and seek that place of coexistence that is Spain. A place of coexistence where we can live together, not face each other, and fix the real enemy in Catalonia and throughout Spain, which is the devastating economic crisis that has frustrated the hopes of millions of citizens. So let's see if we're able to get back to normal as soon as possible. My conviction about Catalonia's independence lies in Spain and Europe, because we are in the 21st century and it is not for anyone to divide, when what we are doing in Europe is integrating, which means adding from differences. That is what we are doing in the construction of Europe, and that is what we should continue to do from the very bottom of our convictions, which must ultimately encourage and inspire our actions and our political attitude. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, whose members will defend their respective amendments or, if necessary, set a position, and in addition, all of them will accumulate their speaking time, Mr Bel Accensi intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u66	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the budget. I think you feel comfortable talking about many issues, it seems that this is going to be a general policy debate - that general policy debate we have not had in this legislature - but no, it is a budget debate. So let's try - with the time we have - to position ourselves on the budget. Our group has tabled an amendment in its entirety because we understand that these are not good budgets, and we are going to try to believe it and justify it. They are not good budgets for Catalonia, of course, but they are also not good budgets for the whole Spanish State. You said this morning that these were the budgets to share economic growth. In Catalonia we do not get the distribution, Minister, and we are also going to try to believe it. You and your citizens' partners are saying that in the 2017 budget for the first time they met the deficit targets and the entire Spanish state met the deficit targets. But their budgets, citizens' budgets didn't meet the deficit target. The central government, Minister, has deviated from its deficit target by 69%, and social security by 5.27 % from its deficit target. Citizens' budgets and PP budgets failed to meet the deficit target. The Spanish State met the deficit target. You know why? Because local corporations for the sixth consecutive year met their deficit targets and, not only that, they generated surplus. The autonomous communities for the first time met their deficit targets, including the Generalitat. You cannot say from this rostrum that the Government of the Generalitat has abdicated its obligations, because those who have abdicated to meet its deficit target are you and your citizens' partners, not the Generalitat of Catalonia, which last year met the deficit target. [[Applauds]] This year, Minister, they will not meet the deficit target. Why? Why does this humble Member say that? No, gentlemen of Citizens. No, gentlemen of the PP. Because Airef says so. Man, let's hear what Airef says. Airef said last week in parliamentary office that the central administration was going to deviate between 57 % and 85 % of its deficit target and that Social Security was going to deviate from 36 %. But you will not meet the deficit target of the Central Administration or Social Security because it is said by a humble Member or because Airef says so. No, no, you're not gonna do it because you say so. We have seen today that the newspapers have leaked a letter that you address to Europe saying that the central administration will not meet the deficit targets of the budget that you present here today. This is the reality and these are their budgets. [[Applauds]] Why aren't they meeting the deficit target? I'm telling you, they're not going to meet some revenue forecasts. They didn't tell me, but I told them. Why should I tell him? Last year you raised EUR 1 billion less IRPF than you had budgeted? Yeah. Last year, did you raise EUR 1 billion less than you had budgeted for corporate tax? Yeah. Last year you raised 460 million less excise taxes? Yeah. Last year you raised 4 billion less than you had budgeted for Spanish tax revenues? Yeah. This year it is going to collect less IRPF than it has budgeted and it is going to collect less excise taxes. We're not going to argue. We will wait until 31 December and we will check, as we checked last year, Minister. These are bad budgets from the point of view of spending, especially in Catalonia, and then I will talk to you about other areas. Investments in Catalonia. You cannot say that this is a budget that invests much more in Catalonia. Mr Rajoy comes to Catalonia from time to time accompanied by the Minister of Development and makes a promise of rain of millions. What does that promise of millions of rain become? In a budget that invests approximately 3.6% of the territorialised investment of the entire Spanish State, representing 19% of GDP and 16% of the population. This is what you have budgeted, but then what do you run? They said that 80 % had been executed in Catalonia. I'm still waiting for the list, Minister. But what's the reality? I'll explain it to you. Of ADIF's investments in Catalonia last year, 50% of what was budgeted did not invest. Of all the nearby investments - look what you have talked about nearby in Catalonia - you have only invested 62% of what was budgeted. Of all State Port investments, only 35 per cent of what was budgeted has been invested. From Aquamed of the Ministry of Agriculture - for not leaving anyone without protagonists - they only invested 16% of what was budgeted. Of the companies as a whole they have invested 75% of what was budgeted; that is, it is as if every four years they did not invest anything, Minister. All the investments that appear in this year's budgets are recurrent investments; some of them began to appear in the budget last century. They are investments that are perpetuated, that never end, and that are carried out badly and late, Minister. The tender of the General Administration of the State in Catalonia has fallen in ten years by 90%, Minister, from more than EUR 2 billion to EUR 200 million. In 2017, his government's bid for new works in Catalonia fell by 23%. Do you know how the public works bid of the Government of this abdicating government evolved? It increased by 43%, Minister. Difference: decrease of 23 %, increase of 43 %. I'd go over the investments. It would begin with the unfolding of the N-340, which had to be the A-7, stopped since the last century. It would continue to look at the A-27, the stretch between Vandellòs and Tarragona, still one-way, whose works began in 2004 and we are moving to an average of 2.4 kilometers/year. I would climb to Barcelona, to the variant of Vallirana, started in 2004. Do you know how much progress every year? It goes 160 meters each year, this is the average, fifteen years to run 2.4 kilometers, Minister. [[Applauds]] This is recurring. If you go to Girona and you see the N-II, it's exactly the same thing. Can you tell me what new work you have incorporated into the budgets in Catalonia? But not this year, over the last five years. Explain it to the Catalans. Catalan entrepreneurs go there, are educated and the Minister and Mr Rajoy applaud them. They look at them and say, "Not another year." And they look at the budgets and they say, "Not another year." [[Applauds]] This is the reality. That is why things are as they are in Catalonia, Minister. You can go up here and say that these Catalans, which the government has abdicated, but the reality is reality, Minister. These budgets do not meet local corporations or autonomous communities. They apply Lofca, and it is not a question of legality, it is a question of compromise. It makes four budgets that you go up to the rostrum and says: In the next budgets there will be reform of local funding and of the financing of the autonomous communities. And in the coming budgets there is no reform of either one or the other. This is the reality. That is why we are presenting you with an amendment in its entirety. In the area of tax revenues or tax measures, we share some modifications of the IRPF and some of the VAT, the film VAT, 50 million euros; last year it couldn't be, this year it can be. This House has approved the amendment of the VAT on funeral services, a proposal of ours. Is it in the budget? No, no, It approved the amendment of VAT for veterinary services, a proposal by Squerra Republicana. Is it in the budget? No, no, There is a commitment from all groups to change the VAT on dependence, from 10% to 4%, which is absolutely fair. Is it in the budget? No, no, This is what we are proposing as a whole. Mr Minister and gentlemen of Citizens, last week this was the blue budget, it was the orange budget, there was an orange supplement, there was an orange measure, then there was a blue measure, and the truth is that today in this House, well, in this House not, in the corridors of this House, an amendment has been tabled to the whole, which we are not going to discuss, but that is the real amendment to the whole of the citizens' budgets. The PNV has been very skilfully presented. You've made a fool of yourself for everything you've agreed on improving pensions. [[Applauds]] Indeed, the amendment to its entire budget and pension reform has been tabled by the five PNV Members. This is the reality. You'll say, you've made a deal. Each group does what it has to do and we are not going to criticize it. Two weeks ago, Mr Rivera didn't know if pensions were going up a point or a point and a half, but the pensions were reserved for those who had to reserve them. You yourselves are being presented with an amendment to the whole of pension reform. That we agree with the increase in civil servants' salaries? Of course, but that doesn't mean the rest are good budgets. These days there was a controversy. We could take several budget items. R+D+i, absolutely low. What are you doing? Corrigendum? No, they say the private don't ask for loans and they can't execute. Man, if they don't ask you for loans, switch this item to direct capital or current subsidies! No, because, then, they're spent. Why? Because it's a budget trap. You budget items that you know you're not going to run to try to make up for the revenue you're not going to have from budget items that you also budget up. Therefore, Minister, these are not budgets that can have our confidence. We understand that they are bad budgets for Catalonia, for Catalans, for the productive sectors in Catalonia. There is no move towards small and medium-sized enterprises; there is no new investment. I would like to see someone come and say, Mr Bel, these are the new investments in Catalonia, if not today, at any other time. And I give them a margin of ten years back; ten years, to see what investment was in the budgets and is no longer contemplated over the last ten years. This is the reality, Minister. In any case - I am finishing, Mr President - because the distribution of the Joint Group does not allow me to reply, we will find some other occasion to contrast our opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u68	Mr. Montoro, as you've been here all day, let me start with a little humor or a little unscriptural evil. I don't know if the Aitor tractor is yellow, white or blue; but what I do know is that after the Aitor tractor and the blue tractor have passed over the orange tractor. This finding gives us the reason for which we have tabled amendments in their entirety. After the meeting on Tuesday evening by Mr Rajoy and the President of the PNV, we see that these budgets can be improved; that they can be improved significantly; that they were not the best budgets, gentlemen of the PP, and gentlemen of Citizens. They can be improved, the Basque Nationalist Party has shown this morning. Therefore, if pensions can be raised to 1.5 today, they could have been raised earlier. If the contribution bases can be raised to 56, they could have been raised earlier; and if the sustainability factor can be delayed until 2023, it can also be done earlier. We announce our vote in favour of these amendments which improve pensions and all those which also improve pensions, although Mr Rivera presents them in order to recover a little of that portfolio which has taken him out of the spotlight in this House. Mr Montoro, these budgets can be fixed before and can be fixed after, as they have shown, with the amendments, and Compromís will announce the affirmative vote on all these amendments that improve pensions, not all the amendments. This morning, Mr. Montoro, I saw you as passed out, unwillingly, and your group was more on the phone than listening to you, really. From up there, the henman, the movements are seen and they have not applauded him with fervor, sincerely. Look, these budgets I think have only one goal, and this morning it has been confirmed: to give Rajoy oxygen, to allow Mr Rajoy to finish the legislature to see if they change the air and the polls start not to be so orange. That is why we are not going to approve some budgets that the only thing they want is to perpetuate Mr Rajoy here, because these budgets will neither create employment nor are they social and, of course, are a new insult to the Valencians, a double mistreatment; nor do they present a new model of financing and every year more and more mistreatment. These are not the most social budgets, how can the most social budgets be those in which the heading that goes up the most is that of Defense? I think that is the sign of identity of these budgets; it goes up twice as much as education and health. And look, they are the same budgets - we have been seeing each other for seven years, we are already a little old known - that have served to make Spain one of the countries during these years where inequality has increased most in Europe - and we do not say it - also for an unusual phenomenon to appear in Spain, the poor workers, and for the population at risk of poverty not to stop increasing despite their budgets. And last year I was saying practically the same thing, I was listening to him this morning and I was thinking together with my partner Enric: this is like a deja vu, this is already heard last year and yet all these things that we say are repeated. On the other hand, there is another injustice, the state reserves 65% of the deficit, considering that it does not have much competence in the social areas, which the autonomous communities have to provide. We reserve 35% for the autonomous communities this year, we leave only 35% of the deficit and the state reserves 65%, knowing that the autonomous communities have to provide education, health and social services. You reserve most of the deficit and leave most of the problems for the autonomous communities. In the case of the Valencian Community it is even more serious because you and I know that we have a serious funding problem, you have said it once. Do you want social policies, Mr Montoro? Do you want social policies, Mr. Rivera? Mr. Cantó, do you want social policies, you're going to be the next candidate, or at least that looks like you said Mr. Rivera's finger? Well, look, the Valencian government, the Government of the Botanic that you so denot, can teach you some social policies. For example, the unemployed who pay less than EUR 18 000 from today will stop paying for medicines; 230 000 people, 230 000 Valencians and Valencians will stop paying for medicines. We have managed in two years and a peak that 1 700 000 Valencians will stop paying for medicines, with funding that I do not dare say the adjective because I have an animal disease. More politics, new Valencian income of inclusion since Monday if in the end you don't end up, in the end, trying not to make it happen. Finally, reduction of the dependency list, 40% in these two years. The dependency waiting list is the lowest since 2015, when it ruled the People's Party. Examples of social policies. In short, these budgets, we insist, will not create jobs, quality jobs or stable jobs. In recent years precariousness has increased, only 9% of contracts in 2017 have been indefinite contracts; there are more workers, yes, but because they are cutting work, and in addition the lower wages have fallen by 15% and the higher ones have risen by 15%. These are their budgets. Then there is the issue of pensions. They'd put fear on us, if we didn't approve these budgets, pensions won't go up. The salary is not going to be raised to the staff. Do you remember - you and I, that we already have some experience - every August before we went on vacation, when the decree of the Ministry of Defense came? 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015. There could be an increase of $2 billion, just what was needed to increase the CPI's pensions. I'm done with the last part of Valencia. Today is April 25, the Valencians celebrate the defeat of Almansa and the loss of our furies, but there is also good news today because we recovered the Valencian television that some closed. These budgets should serve to redistribute wealth and reduce territorial inequalities. Mr Montoro, gentlemen of the Valencian PP, Mr Cantó, candidate in pectore for the Valencian Generalitat, Mr Rivera said he wants equality among all Spaniards, which is the battle of Citizens. Do you believe that in a territory like the Valencian, with a 12% lower per capita income than the average and a 12% lower per capita expenditure than the average, 67 million less can be invested than in other autonomous communities? Mr. Singed and Mrs. Bastidas, is that equality? The budgets that you are going to approve provide 35 000 euros for the Foundation del Toro de Lidia and 30 000 for a prize from Tauromaquia and the Federation of Music Societies of the Valencian Community, which collects 547 companies, 50% of all music societies in Spain, only - - will give you 7000 euros. They play 12 euros for each musical society and, if we divide it into musicians, which are 60,000, they play only 17 cents for each musician. I'm done. These budgets can be improved. They have two days left to make amendments, make them, and Compromis undertakes to approve all amendments that will improve these budgets in Valencian terms. Be loyal to the interests of the Valencian people and be worthy of the votes of the people who voted for you there so that you are sitting here. Compromise will be. We will be loyal and worthy with the Valencian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u70	Thank you very much. Pick it up on. The vote on the amendments to the whole tomorrow will coincide with the eighty-first anniversary of the bombing of Gernika, the first massive aerial bombardment against the civilian population ordered by the Francoism that destroyed this Vizcaine population, taking advantage of the massive influx of people on a fair day. Eighty-one years later the political heirs of those franchisors show a disturbing authoritarian and re-centralizing drift, preparing to, far from betting on the democratization of the Spanish state, reverse the situation and return to the first design of the transition much more restrictive. It is the PP with the collaboration of Citizens, who are even more to the right, who are the protagonists of this attempt and who join them in supporting the budgets presented by the government for 2018 will help to strengthen a government that wants to hide what happened during the fascist dictatorship, hence that the departure for historical memory remains at zero euros, and that is preparing to continue to cut social, national, civil and political rights. That is why we say that opening a door to budget approval is to support these plans. To make it even clearer, while supporting the 2017 budgets meant supporting the implementation of 155 in Catalonia, Euskal Herria Bildu's doing the same with the 2018 budgets means losing the opportunity to assert our limited decision-making capacity above party interests, a joint action through which to work and seek ways to achieve greater levels of sovereignty, the only guarantee that Euskal Herria will advance both in the social sphere in relation to the right to decide in peace and normalization. It is wrong to think that the authoritarian and re-centralizing drift will disappear with a formal cancellation of 155 the day the new president of the Generalitat of Catalonia is appointed. 155 is an article that has made it more visible if the action of the Government can also be taken in Euskal Herria, a government that respects the current division of jurisdiction only when it interests it and, far from maintaining an equal relationship with the institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa, blocks the transfer of the competences recognized by law, invades its competences by recourse to the Constitutional Court, taking away from us what we have for later, by negotiation, when the parliamentary arithmetic is not favorable to it, returning us only a part, marketing for it and obtaining a partisan benefit of the operation entirely unacceptable. To this is added the pressure to which his partner, Citizens, puts him so that he does not advance in the fulfillment of the statute and in the improvement. It is an action that has been repeated and that we will not be able to overcome if we do not make use of, if we do not face the Government and its partners as a people, changing the current rules of play of submission, rules of play that they do want to change, but to worse. If we do not do this with the rejection of the budgets, next year we will not be better. [[The lady]] Euskal Herria has made much progress as a society in recent years, despite the obstacles of the government of Mariano Rajoy. In peace and normalization, steps are being taken that will allow us to build a future of democratic coexistence among all, despite the Spanish Government's null and void will to contribute to this. In Euskal Herria there is a social and political majority that understands that the construction of a future with social justice goes by deciding absolutely everything, also the issues of pensions or labour relations or social investments. And it is enough to look at the items of this budget to check the consolidation of austerity and cutback policies, which, despite the supposed economic recovery, does not diminish the inequality created in recent years, a budget that still does not aim to combat tax fraud and undertake a tax reform that brings it closer to a more progressive and equitable system that allows it to have sufficient income for social investment. It is clear that, in addition to having resources, it is necessary to set different spending priorities from those of this Government, which clings to the reforms carried out, despite the inequalities and poverty that they have created, especially between youth and women. Beyond good words, it does not offer us substantial changes to women in order to achieve the equal opportunities that we need in particular, but society as a whole. What about a budget that does not offer the pacted to macho violence and that is even written in sexist language? We could mention many other issues, among which I will highlight the continued increase in the defence budget, the Royal House, the infrastructure, the latter being spent on a clear bet on a model of development poured into the construction of roads, of AVE and not on people's needs. That's the benefit they say we have in the autonomous community and in Nafarroa. By the way, in Nafarroa 30% less investment and a part of the investment to the high-speed train and the swamp of Yesa, which have repeatedly requested the Navarra institutions and which has been paralysed precisely by the security problems resulting from the landslides that are taking place. There is no will to let us decide what investments we need or to let us bet on other social policies, and we are being tried to convince ourselves of the bounties of anti-social policies, as in the case of pensioners, who have driven thousands of people to the streets. Only forced by the circumstances or by the proximity of elections are steps taken that are nothing but patches and partial measures that do not address the problems in their entirety. The clear case is that of pensions. The spokesman of the party who supports the Government in asking pensioners to applaud the increase in budgets is of little shame. The reality is different and knows it perfectly well that generation that fought for many of the rights that you have not yet taken away from us and that, when you see that the stage of your life comes in which you should receive social recognition, what you receive are unworthy cuts and pensions. And now they also become a right in negotiation. The 1,6 % rise is better than 0,25 %, but it is not enough. It does not address the dignification of pensions, which is the demand for funds that has brought them to the streets, because more than 50% of pensioners will continue to receive 800 euros and the support they offer far away will leave pensioners out of poverty or misery in many cases. Raising 18 euros, up to 622, minimums or raising 11 euros, up to 380, makes these people not continue in poverty, but in the most absolute of misery, and in many cases we are also women. So stop - and I will finish - lying and trying to deceive the citizenry. Its budgets are completely unacceptable to look where they are and that is why Euskal Herria Bildu calls for their return, as did the majority in both the Parliament of Gasteiz and the Parliament of Iruña. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Minister, I make public the attitude of the Navarro People's Union towards these amendments as a whole. We are going to vote against the amendments to the whole that are being debated today for two reasons: firstly, because the Union of the Navarro People since its founding thirty-nine years ago has always sought the stability of our country, which is Spain, and secondly, because the political will of the party I proudly represent has always been to reach agreements, to agree and to compromise for the good of the society in which we all live. Now, ladies and gentlemen, that no one derives from this intervention that we are going to approve or that we are in favour of the General Budgets of the State as drafted at this time, and then I will argue it. The short time I have left will divide it into three parts: firstly, I will make some sort of explanation of the context; secondly, I will argue why the Navarro People's Union says what it is saying right now in the rostrum and, thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a formula, formula 137-2, and then I will explain myself. As for the context, before this debate on the General Budgets of the State there are different political forces. First, there are some political forces that come with the no ahead. Without reading a single article from the State's General Budgets, they have already made public that they are going to vote against. This is something society, by the way, does not understand. Outside these doors, society does not understand that because a political force presents a bill, it is necessary to vote against it precisely because it is that political force that presents it. Secondly, there are other political forces who are experts in marketing; those who sell the Fierabrás formula as a magic solution, to which they put a sticker of a color sometimes chillon and a little jacobino and present it thus in this House. Thirdly, there are other political forces with a chronic umbliguism, with a theatricality always prior to these debates of the General Budgets of the State, which do not want anything from the State and also give it 155 reasons not to vote in favour of these budgets, but that at the time when the State waters those communities and lands, automatically, are able to say the opposite and defiance of what they have previously said. And then there are political forces - the penalty is that we are a minority - as the Navarro People's Union, which we come here with humility and respect for this institution and this budget for the stability of our country, which we come with the vocation of consensus, of agreement and negotiation, which is precisely what we are doing at this time with the Government of Spain. Secondly, why does the Navarro People's Union say here that with the current text, as the State General Budgets are drafted, we are not in favour and that, therefore, if it is not amended, we will vote against it when the debate arrives here in May this year. First, because the regionalization of public investment in the Foral Community of Navarre, to which I proudly belong as a Navarro and as a Spanish, is a damage to the past and to other communities. Secondly, because I still believe that these budgets are a concession to Basque nationalism, and it will not be at the expense of shipwrecks. This, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you. Therefore, I insist, we will continue to negotiate. We shall have until two o'clock on Friday afternoon to table the partial amendments, in which we continue to work with the Government to convince us, for the sake of Navarra and, therefore, for the benefit of the Spanish people as a whole, to approve definitively those General State Budgets for our part. Finally, formula 137-2. Ladies and gentlemen, and also the media who are listening to me right now, the People's Group in this House does not have 137 seats. There remain two seats of the Navarro People's Union, which are precisely there, in the henhouse, in the Joint Parliamentary Group. Two seats that are probably few; they are few yes, but they are tremendously relevant and take on extraordinary importance in this enraged parliamentary arithmetic that we are living in this country. Here is a party with two seats and no cases of corruption in twenty-three years of management of the Government of Navarre; no final conviction for corruption of any high office. That, I don't know how many of you, I don't know how many parties in Spain and how many at European level can say that. We are a party - with this end, Madam President - that embodies most of the feeling of shipwrecks. Therefore, for the sake of the navarros and the rest of the Spaniards, we will defend general budgets that are equal for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u73	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a friend told me that one day in Havana, accompanying a Cuban, they went through a place where they put in a big sign: Socialism or death. His Cuban friend, passing under, had exclaimed: "Hey, and there is no third option?" Ladies and gentlemen, there is also no third option with the State General Budgets. I might understand that some parties in this House would say that they are not the ones that they would have done - I understand it perfectly because I would have done others too - but these are the ones that the government is presenting and the question is that we either approve or implement extended budgets, those of 2017, which are also of this government and which are not the ones that the opposition groups would do either. What is better, that we have new budgets with more resources or that we apply those of 2017, ladies and gentlemen? There's no color. With the old budgets we are hurting everyone, and the only thing that can be done by voting against it is that tomorrow's headlines are talking about the political failure of the Government. Who do you want to mess with, the government or the citizens? Here we have to choose between two options today, there is not a third: either we approve the 2018 budgets or we extend the 2017 ones. Are you going to punish the Spanish citizens, the officials, the autonomous communities and the local hacienda by voting against it? I'm afraid the answer is yes, ladies and gentlemen, and that means that they don't care about people, because it's people, it's citizens and public employees who are going to lose the most with our decision. Besides, in my case, it's Canary Islands. Fifteen deputies representing the people of the Canary Islands sit in this Congress. Today we are debating budgets that are good for our islands, budgets that, after years of abuse and injustice, improve the funding that requires 2 100 000 people who live far from here. And I wonder: are these fifteen Members going to vote in favour of the interests of their land and their citizens? No, ladies and gentlemen, you're not. But why if they're good for the Canary Islands? Why are they going to harm our land without employment plans, without investment in roads, coasts, housing, tourist areas, educational infrastructure, aid for the transport of bananas, at 480 million for health, dependency and social services? They will because there are Members here who are going to vote for what their leaders order. Here are Members of Podemos who in the Canary Islands say that they defend the interests of our land, that they offend when we talk about nationalists and that they also represent the interests of the Canary Islands. Well, here we are. This is the time to do it, but you know what? They will not, because the button they are going to press is that of the discipline of their party and not that of the interest of their voters. You have publicly said that social affairs in the Canary Islands are insufficient. I agree, but could you tell me what is going to be the departure that will go to social affairs in the Canary Islands if this Congress rejects the budgets? Here there are canarian Socialist Members who also know that this budget means more money to our land, but they are going to vote that not because they are going to do the same, they are going to vote in party code and not on the basis of the benefit of those who represent and who voted for them. These members of the Canary Islands who are going to vote against their islands today are going to go very badly in the picture. I'm sorry, but it's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, this government does not convince me. This government, Minister, has been unfair to the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands for many years, because the worst injustice is to treat equals, and you well know that during the years of crisis the people of the Canary Islands were denied bread and salt, ignoring what it is to live 2000 kilometers away from the continent. Now you've changed the weather and you're curious, Mr. Montoro, because now it's when your people in the Canary Islands have taken out the towel and the tanner to get in the sun that heats the most. Yours, with Mr. Antona at the head, those who were hidden when everything was cut, now come out boasting of the sensitivity of this government with the Canary Islands. The truth, Mr Montoro, is that this government has been seriously wrong in many things, but with the same sincerity it must be acknowledged that these budgets are good for the men and women of the Canary Islands. That's what we have to analyze today and not other things. That's what we're here for. Why do I vote for these accounts? Because I am a canarian deputy who does represent the men and women of her land, who have been elected by them and who have been put here to defend their interests. That is why I have to vote in favour of these budgets, because they are good for the Canary Islands. Just for that and nothing more and nothing less than that. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President, Ministers. In the presence of the Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría, last Friday I had the honour to sign, on behalf of the Forum, an agreement with the People's Party in order to guarantee confidence and political stability, as well as to maintain and boost the pace of economic growth and job creation necessary for the prosperity and well-being of citizens. The agreement assures our vote to support the General Budgets of the State bill for 2018, because it responds to the commitment to the Asturians to fulfill the electoral pact that both parties signed in Asturias before the general elections of June 2016, which received the majority support of the Asturians and whose compliance is sacred to the Forum. Our rejection of the six amendments of the whole defended this afternoon highlights the importance of the pact, of the agreement and of the transparent dialogue so that the General Budgets of the State for 2018 represent the fulfillment of the word given and reflect the project of progress that Asturias needs, affecting the railway infrastructures, in order to make socially profitable the great investments already made on the Madrid-Asturias line and to homologate the high speed with the lines that are already in service; necessary investments that favor the whole of the north-northwest corridor and also the railway connections of Cantabria and Euskadi with the capital of Spain. They are also public accounts to recover the time wasted in the execution of the road infrastructures paralyzed by the socialist government and which are fundamental to communicate the southwest of Asturias, through the highway, from Oviedo to La Espina. The important investment commitment of the State reflected in these budgets should also have its reflection in the Government of the Principality, so that it ceases to evade its responsibility and assumes its exclusive competence in the continuity of this motorway, extending it from La Espina to Tineo, Cangas de Narcea and Degaña, to the regional limit, so that the Junta de Castilla y León links it in its territory with the A-6 motorway. They are also budgets aimed at putting an end to the waste that means having flooded and without equipment in the subsoil of Gijón a tunnel already built of almost 4 kilometers of length, which will serve to bring the train closer to the citizens and gain centrality, giving the city, in addition, an intermodal station worthy of the twenty-first century, instead of the provisional chamizo bequeathed by the socialist government of Mr Zapatero. The agreement on the amendments to the General State Budgets signed by the People's Party and the Forum includes new environmental measures for our plants to apply technology to achieve the European zero emissions target and get clean coal. The importance of passing this bill has a unique reflection on aspects related to our electricity sector; hence, the commitment to increase the allocations to reduce environmental emissions from thermal power plants, because while the left is betting on its closure and industrial dismantling, others we formalize agreements to secure jobs, making growth sustainable and compatible with the defence of the environment. It also includes the enforcement of the mining fund judgment - another example of who defends the coal regions and who keeps them in oblivion - the new generation broadband extension programme and the aid for our power-intensive consumer industries to assume the indirect costs of CO2 and to be able to homologate with their European competitors. As in last year's budgets, the public accounts for this year will reflect a significant increase in regionalized aid for innovation and competitiveness, the necessary allocations for projects for the conservation, restoration and rehabilitation of the Romanesque and Pre-Romanian Asturians and, finally, a plan to address the very serious national problem of population ageing and demographic crisis, whose elaboration is urgent to include European cut-off aid to promote birth, an urgent need in Spain and Asturias, the community with the worst indicators of depopulation and ageing. Ladies and gentlemen, the Forum's support for the budgets with the agreed amendments will gradually preserve efficiency in the selection of public expenditure and equity in its distribution among autonomous communities, avoiding comparative grievances between regions. The allocation of investments between communities with all official indicators, both European and national, in hand has to respond to the principle that no one is more than another or less than the others, in order to prevent an improper distribution from pushing a community, as happens with Asturias, to the national tail van. In conclusion, for these reasons, I announce, on behalf of the Forum, my vote against the six amendments to the whole tabled, in the hope that, after this procedure has passed, we will be able to extend the parliamentary agreements that will make possible, through the corresponding partial amendments, the widest possible budgetary support to achieve in this XII Legislature the progress to meet the priorities that we intend to achieve almost two years ago, which respond to the general interests defined by the implementation of the electoral programme, which also obtained majority support from the Asturian voters. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Minister. This budget for 2018 has some characteristics different from the budget for 2017. Pensioners and women have said enough in a very hard way on the street, elections are coming next year - autonomous, local and European at least - and the People's Party is going through some difficulties that they know well and that they are certainly not reassuring. That's why, we suppose, and because they don't have the absolute majority they had in their day so there have been some miracles that we have to recognize. What was previously impossible, is now being possible in some respects. It was possible to raise pensions above 0.25 %; we did not tell you that it was possible to do so. They have done so in part and in a way that we understand incompletely, but they have done so. Look where, sometimes misfortunes are good for this. There has also been an increase in the wages of public workers, and I have to remind you that the black beast of almost all who were in their position were public services and public workers; they were the demon, the ones responsible for the terrible crisis situation, the excess... This has also changed and it was unthinkable a few months ago, we also have to recognize it. An important agreement has also been reached against gender-based violence, against male-based violence, although unfortunately it does not have a sufficient budget, which we hope can be corrected in time for amendments. However, the underlying ideology is the same, Mr Montoro, and you know that we do not agree on it: correction of the deficit and growth through internal devaluation and loss of workers' labour rights; investment and spending on public services below the rate of economic growth and a fiscal policy in which those who have the most and many escape so much do not pay. This needs to be corrected, this is a deficit that makes it impossible for us to support these budgets. If we go beyond the procedure to be voted on tomorrow, something can happen: that the budget does not go beyond the amendment stage and that we are then faced with an extended budget. Under no circumstances will political change or revolution of any kind occur. For that reason, it is good not to deceive anyone and make it clear that there is a chance, we believe. If the right conditions are given to try to influence some matters related to the general interests of Spain, from a party that has the political strength of a deputy and with the corresponding modesty we will support the improvement in pensions and we will try to improve the departures for the fight against gender violence, but we will have to discuss with rigour the serious problems that affect our land. I have no interest in giving a blacklist of what is happening to us in the Canary Islands, but I will give you a fact that I'm sure you understand very well. The loss of convergence in the per capita GDP of the Canary Islands since 2000 to date is 97% compared to 81.5% of the Spanish average. If this indicator isn't to scare, I don't know what it will be. Well, yes, there's another worse one: that of poverty. The Arope rate, already recognised by the European Union, gives us the joke of a poverty risk rate that affects 44.6 of the Canarian population. That's 16.7 points more than the Spanish average. In unemployment we are 5.5 points above the Spanish average, 12 points more in families with all their members unemployed, and we have some problems, such as the Canary-State connectivity that are not in this budget, which perhaps would be possible to correct. This connectivity means at this time that there are many canaries and canaries, many canaries families who cannot access the right to connect with the rest of the State for economic reasons. This is a matter of state which we believe must be corrected. We know that this is not in the budgets, but it is in certain extrabudgetary agreements that we have reached at the time, and we hope that the Government will honour that agreement by putting price constraints to prevent the abuse of airlines. We have also discussed this. I insist on a debate we had last time: Deputy 176 is not the one who talks to them. I know you disagree with that. Deputy 176 is you and your Government. If it is possible to establish a serious and rigorous negotiation around these elements that I am putting to you and a few more - there are about seventy amendments from New Canarias - we will honour our commitments; if not, simply, we could not support this budget either now or after. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u79	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the courage given to political stability, in terms of the vote on the draft law on the general budgets of the State, to the formations that have been pronounced in this regard - the spokesman for UPN, Mr Alli, Mrs Oramas and Mr Martínez Oblanca - which, while having their reservations and also their logical drawbacks, put forward the political stability that means rejecting the amendments to the whole of the general budgets of the State. And indeed it is. We need new general state budgets both for their content and for ensuring political stability in Spain at the moment. We have a duty to promote economic recovery and job creation and we have to close the institutional crisis that has represented the independence challenge in Catalonia. Therefore, betting on political stability is a good, a good of first necessity, and I want to thank you explicitly. Mr Bel has come to talk about budgets and I too have come to talk about budgets. It is my obligation, it is the Government's initiative to draft the State General Budgets Bill. It is the initiative of a minority Government and, therefore, our obligation - and we have done so - is to speak with the political groups before bringing the bill, and it is the political groups that have been expressing publicly the degree of their support, the convenience of their support and the reason for their support. This is what we have been witnessing in terms of acquiring agreements that are characterizing a legislature like the current one. There is political stability in this legislature because there are agreements. We have in this budget bill agreements with social partners, the result of social dialogue with trade unions, such as an increase in civil servants and an increase in employment and the quality of public employment. So, that's the deal. In that sense, if we bring such important basic agreements, if we have reached political agreements that improve the public pension system in Spain, I do not understand where the drawback is. Why do they keep keeping the no? Because it's brought by the People's Party government. It is clear that they have not expressed that argument in a consistent manner. Or are we not favouring pensioners in Catalonia with these budgets? Are we not favouring officials in Catalonia with these budgets? Are we favouring investment? Yes; investments are growing in Catalonia; investments are growing in Catalonia, the Valencian Community and the rest of Spain. But there is a truth, and I have recognized it many times in this rostrum, and it is that this economic recovery is not taking public investment away from us. It is true that in previous years we have had to lower public investment and we have had to do so in the State General Budgets, have had to do it by the autonomous communities, have had to do it by the municipalities, the lobbyists, the island councils. It was that public investment had to be lowered because there were no more resources and social spending had to be preserved on the public side. That's how it was. The criticism that investment is not enough is therefore a criticism that I understand, but I must insist that if we do not reduce the deficit with the tax resources that we had today, we would continue in economic recession and in job destruction. And in Catalonia and the Valencian Community there is a very clear economic recovery and a very important job creation. That's right, Mr. Bel. Hasn't that happened in spite of those events? That's why I was saying: Can't we have politicians in Catalonia committed to economic recovery, job creation and the settlement of the welfare state in Catalonia? Can't we improve that? This is the real task, the challenge and the intention of the Government - as we are saying - to agree. That's what I was saying. It seems that on these agreements the manifestation of the political groups is that now there is money. Now there's money? What there are are agreements on the sharing of the benefits of economic recovery, as I explained this morning. Apparently, some of you have seen me this morning a little sad. That's what happens to me when I read so much paper, and that's why I pass quickly and I don't read half of what I bring anymore. I do not know, perhaps I express myself worse - one no longer knows how to do better or worse - but I have explained it: the intention of the policy of these budgets is to share the benefits of economic recovery. And to that I have urged political groups, to contribute to that sharing of the benefits of economic recovery, not to tell me: Now you do have money. But I kind of have money! Let's see, I have tax collection money, not other money, and the commitment of the deficit target so that we can through budgetary stability settle this economic recovery. Mr Bel, last year the public deficit fell in all public administrations. [[Mr Bel Accensi makes gestures to the speaker]] Yeah, but he didn't explain it well. Let me explain it to you. Yeah, I'm gonna read you the numbers, because there are times when you have to read the numbers and I'm the only good memory I still have is for the numbers. I'm going to read you the numbers, because you've come out here to say that the General Administration of the State has not complied. Let's read the 2017 numbers in relation to the 2016 numbers. I'll start at the end. The public administrations - all - have closed the deficit by minus 3.07. The previous year the deficit was minus 4.29 - then we're going to read the components -, that means we've reduced the deficit by 1.2 points compared to the previous year. Okay? We have dropped 1.2 points in our gross domestic product. The central state administration closed by less than 1.86. You say you didn't, but wait, wait, let's see how much you went down. It's just that we already know that the expression of the objective I have to distribute. The Government's obligation is to divide the target, and I cannot put any surplus in the allocation, because the Stability Act does not legally allow for a surplus target. I'm going to read about the closure of the Central State Administration: minus 1.86. What was the closing of the previous year? Less than 2.48. So, has the General Administration of the State gone down? How much? From minus 2.48 to minus 1.86, i.e. 0.6 points. If we have dropped from a total of 1.2 points, half of it has been lowered by the General Administration of the State. I'm still reading. The Autonomous Communities have closed by less than 0.3 against at least 0.8, assuming the debts for the non-updating of the quota and for the non-updating of the contribution of the Foral Community of Navarra, which represent 2 tenths. Therefore, that is a oneoff in deficit reduction. Otherwise, instead of less than 0.3, they would have closed by less than 0.5; er, the State would not have closed by less than 0.6, but would have dropped by 0.8 points in effective terms. It's okay, national accounts, but don't say that those who haven't gone down have gone down and, above all, don't say that the first one that hasn't gone down is the General Administration of the State, which has complied with the expenditure rule. The spending rule enabled us to spend up to a maximum of 2.1 and the state's spending has fallen by less 3.4. Please see whether we have complied with the expenditure rule, bearing in mind that the role of the State is also a distributor of financial resources for the rest of the administrations. This function is only partially carried out by other administrations in relation to local corporations. As I was telling you, our estate is a vertebrate estate and, therefore, reading has to be done in global terms. We cannot go on to the slogan that the effort has been done only by the autonomous communities. No, they have actually dropped three tenths compared to a drop in the General Administration of the State of almost eight tenths. Social Security closed by less than 1.48 and the previous year by less than 1.59, i.e. it has dropped by one tenth. It must therefore also be awarded the merit. That's why I was saying that some people want to see the social security deficit out of hand. I have already relativized: Social Security has a deficit, but this is not the main problem in this country either. And local corporations have repeated. I mean, about the variation, unless, of the total deficit, is that so. If you repeat, you're not changing the total. Therefore, the additions, the members, are clear. Let's say things as they are, with the numbers in hand. Mr Baldoví has made a certainly remarkable parliamentary approach this afternoon. He says: We know each other and, parliamentaryly, we do not agree. With a commendable conviction, that I do not have - I do not have it as you have done - he says that Compromis is going to vote for partial amendments to improve pensions. That is to say, you are convinced that the amendments as a whole will be rejected in the vote tomorrow. Okay. This has also been a good bet. Very logical. I could have made it easier. You know how? You abstain tomorrow in that vote, and that's it, one more. [[Applauds]] He has made a very commendable bet: we will be with the rise of pensions in partial amendments. So you are facilitating the rejection of the total amendments so that we can raise pensions more than the budget bill does, is it not, Mr Baldoví? He said it very well: Make it clear that Compromise...! He said it emphatically. He said that this morning he saw me sad and helpless. I do not know how you have seen me, but I have already said that it was a real honour for me to introduce a budget bill with this content. I also had to present - I was also very honored - the draft budget law in April 2012. It is another world to present this project or, if you want, it is another era that we have ahead. We then put more or less triston on the table, but you make it easier for partial amendments to be made and you do not join so enthusiastically in the improvement that depends on partial amendments. With regard to the others, there has also been a very good argument: the Government is in a minority. The law's initiative is government, but I have to deal with others. If not, how do we get ahead? We've gone in parts. I mean that clearly, we are already doing it in this legislature. The important thing is that we move forward in the legislature, and we are doing so. We are achieving political stability, which is absolutely necessary in our country. I insist that this is the main element. This is that if you get over one and the other you don't get over one... I think it's great! They come up here to criticize the agreements reached by the Government, because they make their bets in that negotiation! They have not even wanted to talk to us and they are still coming up here to criticize those who are actually reaching agreements with the Government. I thought it was a great part of what the approach of this afternoon was. I don't think that's very sincere, frankly. If you thought we could and had room to improve, have negotiated. But they didn't even want to negotiate. Therefore, they had already decided a priori to present the amendment in its entirety, and so on. What are we demonstrating? That we can negotiate, not that we have a resource that we did not have before; that we can negotiate and negotiate to the limit that we can, always compromising - I insist - the objective of budgetary stability; committed to achieving that objective. Therefore, what I have not understood, Mr Bel, is why you do not like the rise of pensions, to the PDECAT. I just had to be on it! Yeah, yeah, we're raising our pensions! Why he does not like the salary increase of officials; why he does not like that there are those increases contained in the budgets to the lowest incomes so it means of contributing to social cohesion in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole. Why? Because I don't understand. And as far as Mr. Baldoví is concerned, let alone. I will give you another argument, which I have also explained and which is in the additional provision of the budget. This budget enables the Government to restructure the debt of the Autonomous Communities. What does this mean? For everyone What does it mean for Catalonia, for the Valencian Community, for those who have used the Autonomous Liquidity Fund most, for Andalusia, for Murcia, for Baleares, for Canarias, etc.? Are you going to participate enthusiastically in the restructuring of that debt too? So, hey, make it easier for us to discuss these amendments in the relevant parliamentary procedure. But it is a complete political incoherence to go up to say that in that yes, but overall not. I mean, I mean, an inconsistency of those that... Anyway, listen, there's everyone in that sense. The Government's plan is to carry out the statements, which are very important; they are very important territorially. For the territorial cohesion of Spain, these budgets have very much content, and that exceeds the territorialized investment figures, which have already improved, but far exceeds that. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about an approach that we must take advantage of and use time, without creating discrimination between residents of one autonomous community versus residents of another. We can do that, and the more political coincidence we achieve in this House the better it will be for everyone. I cannot answer Bildu's spokesman, because he has said that this is not a budget debate, but a model debate: he doesn't like infrastructure, he doesn't like it at all, and then I have no answer. Frankly, I would like to, but I have no answer for the content of what that means. In Spain territorially all the territories have suffered the crisis, all of them, but it is true that some have suffered more than others, just read the unemployment rates; therefore, we also have to know how to respond to the fact that from the State we have to promote real convergence, which is a reality, a necessity, and now that we have this economic recovery and those resources, we have to use them with that idea and with that approach. Because it is also true that special regimes, as is the case with the Canary Islands, already having a historical economic-fiscal regime, has not been enough to alleviate the effects of a crisis, and now what we are doing is, precisely, since 2015, updating all the components of this economic-fiscal regime, today also in processing in this House, because the Canary Islands also has a singularity in terms of the need for convergence due to the high unemployment rates. As in other autonomous communities too. Spain is very different also in its economic structure; Spain is very different and one must know how to respond to the urgency of achieving real convergence because the crisis, I insist, has been everywhere, has been deployed everywhere, but it is also true that it has harmed some more than others, and we must not blame the policies of governments, and of previous governments for what has been the consequence of such a disastrous, so profound crisis. Therefore, now in the procedures, if we overcome the amendment as a whole, as I am convinced that we will overcome it, in the partial procedures with partial amendments, we will be able to continue to favour convergence between the different territories of Spain, clearly safeguarding the peculiarities of each of them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-04-25-CD180425.u81	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, until tomorrow at 9 a.m. It was eight and fifty minutes of the night.
