ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Pablo Matos Mascareño, I ask Don Manuel Luis Torres Herrera if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u3	In place of don Pedro Saura García, I ask dona Carmen Baños Ruiz if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u4	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u5	In place of Don José Ignacio Sánchez Amor, I ask Patricia Sierra Rojas if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u7	Don Manuel Torres Herrera, dona Carmen Baños Ruiz and dona Patricia Sierra Rojas have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u8	This session has as its sole agenda item the election of the members of the Board of Directors of RTVE in accordance with the unique article of Royal Decree-Law 4/2018 of 22 June, which specifies as a matter of urgency the legal regime applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RTVE Corporation and its President. The election shall be made by the system set out in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and those candidates who obtain in the first ballot at least a two-thirds majority, i.e. two hundred and thirty-four votes, shall be elected. The proposed candidates are: Doña Rosa María Artal Martínez, don Juan José Baños Loinaz, dona Concepción Cascajosa Virino, dona Cristina Fallarás Sánchez, don Tomás Fernando Flores, don Víctor Sampedro Blanco, don Eladio Jareño Ruiz, dona Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, don Manuel González-Sicilia Llamas, don Juan Pablo Artero Muñoz, don Luis de la Matta Cantó and dona María Nieves Cristina Alcaine Hernández. The floor will then be open to parliamentary groups from minor to major. [[Mr Girauta Vidal asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u9	What article, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u10	It's a point of order. I would like to invoke Article 31.2. I would like to protest at the procedure followed, which is an ad hoc procedure and not the ordinary legal procedure, which is therefore a violation of the rights of these Members. We call for the immediate meeting of the Board of Spokesmen under my right under the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, I repeat, Rule 31.2, in order to reconsider the Bureau's agreement at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u11	Thank you very much for your intervention. This plenary has been convened and we are gathered here, Mr Spokesman, in accordance with the law, as the services of the House have just confirmed. Thank you so much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u12	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u13	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u14	Good afternoon, everyone. New Canarias announces its abstention in this matter because it is our custom to rule on what we are being consulted, which is not the case. They contrast sharply with this royal decree-law, which we understand, and Minister Ábalos' unqualified patience to apply 75% to air transport. It is discriminating and misinformed to a degree that can be applied immediately and that affects 3.5 million people: whales, ceutians, mellilenses and canaries. New Canarias announces the decline of any commitment to the Socialist Party until the final decision of the New Canarias leadership. Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u15	Thank you very much. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Coalition Canaria believes that Spanish Television has to provide a public service. Journalists and directors of information services can have the ideology they want, they can vote for the PP, Citizens or the Socialist Party, but in a public environment the information has to be accurate and the opinion free and, when there is opinion, it has to be plural. With a model of public television in the hands of professionals and good managers, capable of regaining the prestige of the institution, of public radio and television, it will always be Coalition Canaria; with political changes neither before nor after nor now. We want professionals in charge of the management and information services of public television. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u17	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is no precedent in the Spanish democratic history of the monumental weaving called for by Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias to ensure the control of Spanish Radiotelevision as if it were the nut, dodge the role of the General Courts and machine with intermediaries by the way bajini the next direction outside Parliament. Nor is there any record of candidates for the presidency of Spanish Radiotelevision who, instead of presenting a CV, curriculum vitae, of their professional merits, have dedicated themselves to producing a CB, curriculum 'borrae', with the destruction of tens of thousands of comments and messages so that the Spaniards do not know their digital sectarianism. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is a system of public opinion and our Constitution is the guarantee of the protection of their rights. Since the freedom of printing promulgated by the Courts of Cadiz, Parliament had never been the object of such a mockery, such as this episode which crushes any hint of regeneration to guarantee independence, neutrality and objectivity to public radio and television. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Unión del Pueblo Navarro believes that Spanish Radio Television should be a public entity, a transmitter of values, have awareness and quality and be a true transmitter of the Spanish brand at international level. That is why we have held meetings with Spanish Television professionals to professionalize the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio Television. My party considers that this decree-law and this plenary evoke the rancio, the distribution of powers. The only thing that matters to some large political parties is their partisan interest and some minority forces in this House want to reproduce what their autonomous communities are doing with their public televisions - do the same - on Spanish Radio Television. Navarro People's Union will not enter this game and will vote blank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u22	We announce the blank vote of Compromís and we do so with great contradiction, because we would have liked to vote for some of the people who are on these lists. But they have only communicated to us, they have not asked our opinion. There's a song that says, "It's not that, compañeros and compañeros; it's not that, compañeros and compañeras." There is a majority that made Sanchez president, and for that majority there are large parties and there are small parties. In Compromís we know that we are a small party, just a little smaller than the PNV, just a little bit. That is why we say that we are all necessary for agreements. That is why we tell them that the times have changed and are now times of agreement and respect for minorities. Without that respect for minorities, few agreements can be made. These aren't blank check times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes and Mr Ràfols have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u24	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the Constable of Casablanca and the scene in which he says, "Sirs, I'm shocked, in that place you're playing!, while you're taking your chips? Looks like we're in a more or less identical situation. The only surprise in this election is the absolute lack of surprises. This is done as always, as always, with quotas of parties, and so we will. The truth is that I must say that I am surprised, because I have seen good will on the part of Members - now I am looking at them - and I really want to change the system. Our group will bet that this is the last time it works this way. In the meantime, gentlemen, if this place is played and we don't play, I think we've already agreed, right? Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u25	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. How did we get here? That's the question we're all probably going to ask. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u27	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u28	This does not begin with the decree. We can, we must and we will talk about the decree, but this does not begin with the decree. The decree is the result of something that began a long time ago. This began with the amendment of the law with the absolute majority of the People's Party. This began when the People's Party took the law that had been agreed here and said: Since I have absolute majority, I will put it as I like it. Now he can talk a lot about consensus, but at the time he did not opt for consensus, because he had the strength of the Members and the overwhelming majority he had. In any case, the amendment of the law brought an address for Spanish Radio Television that was once but, not content with what that address did, they said: More wood, which is war. As an election came, they changed riders and put Mr. Sanchez. I am not going to question Mr Sánchez because he is from the PP - everyone can be from wherever he wants and he can vote for whoever he wants - but because he is a professional evil; and because he was a professional evil he made the Spanish Radio-television, that crown jewel that everyone talks about as if it were something precious to keep, manipulated it, did a bad management and was contrary to professionalism, which is what must really be a general director regardless of his ideology, was a professional evil. In that sense, we later came to the point that the other political parties needed some kind of air because that was already irresistible and unsustainable, and so the professionals, who were not all of the same political party, said: we can't breathe, you do something. And we began to move to do something and the truth is that certain agreements were reached, with what already seemed to be in line; and forcing and forcing even the People's Party entered to be able to change the law, and it changed. But what happened? Not content with the People's Party, until what he himself voted for later blocked it. In these we are today, that there is a change of Government and the Socialist Party, the Government, because it considered that it was something to be done, creates a decree. Lords of the Socialist Party, we also did not like how the decree was made. We didn't like the way the decree was made. I think that when you make a decree that you want to bring to consensus what you have to do is to say: ladies and gentlemen, we are on a, let's say, team to change Spanish Television, how can we do that? We can do it like this or asao. Of course, if you decide only among those who play Champions League - if you consider that you only play Champions League some - then happens what has happened: a kind of shame someone else at some point because they have burned professional names that without eating it or drinking it are already burned, for nothing, then do not go out and have to go back and start doing things better. We are in these today, with a list in which we have participated; we believe that it is important that agreements be reached. Let us hope that this will be the last time to proceed in this way. Let's try to make Spanish Radio-television something that is truly only professional, because everything else comes as a result of professionalism: objectivity, neutrality, the ability to see, the ability to generate information and programs that are consistent with social reality, that know how to understand what it asks, that they are plural, all that is part of professionalism. Therefore, I hope that from today, if you can, you will create a board of directors and appoint a president who will be able to manage until what the law says can be complied with, that there will be a public contest so that in this way we can have a Spanish Radio and Television Corporation like the professionals who work there and the citizens deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u29	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the Socialist Group, we voted in favour of the motion of censure to send the People's Party to the opposition, not to make Mr Pedro Sánchez president. Secondly, we did not hold any negotiations with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party before the motion of censure, we only informed them that we would vote yes in exchange for nothing. [[Rumors]] Thirdly, we have affirmed and ratified the idea that a Socialist Party government supported by Podemos will always be more progressive and more dialogueal than a People's Party government supported by Citizens. Historically, republicanism has always supported the Spanish left in everything that is responsible for the conquest and defense of civil and democratic rights and for the conquest and defense of social rights. Perhaps, perhaps, we could not say it backwards, but in any case always concerned ourselves, the Republicans, in supporting the Spanish left in all that is incumbent on the defence of civil rights and social conquests. We have never been indifferent to the desire to conquer a free, professional Spanish Radio Television, respectful of the right to information and the right to opinion, and we have always been defenders and we have been alongside the workers of this entity, but we cannot ask for the support of the Republican Left in relation to this royal decree - and I must tell you that we did not intervene in any kind of negotiation with regard to names, because we understood that there was more cake than anything else - I say that we cannot ask Catalan Republicanism to support you now, when you resurrected the 155 block a few days ago at the time when we told you that it was essential that the dialogue between the Catalan and Spanish governments should be established without conditions and without renunciation by either side. We affirm that dialogue can only exist if this dialogue reaches a vast majority of Catalan citizens, who want dialogue to also include what they stand for. We not only ask you to be respectful to all those Catalans who voted on 1 October yes in the self-determination referendum, 2.3 million, and that you cannot expel them from the dialogue table, but we ask you to include also thousands of Catalans who did not even go to vote on 1 October but who do want the parties to talk about everything. So if you want, which I do not know, that we change our minds, you have some opportunities. The Vice-President of the Government herself, Mrs Calvo, will appear in the Constitutional Commission tomorrow and will be able to make it clear that, even if we voted against it a few days ago, the Spanish Government is prepared to assume that we can talk about everything, about what you like and what you don't like, just as we have to assume that we also have to talk about what we don't like. What is at stake here is to integrate 80% of Catalan citizenship, which, above all, and apart from its political ideal, wants the parties to find a solution. Therefore, if you had any interest in us changing our position, you have time until Wednesday. By the way, let no one fall into the temptation to want to compare it - and I know that this is going to cause this sector to overwhelm us - with the quality and freedom given on Catalan public television. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Risa.-Rumores.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] I invite those who do not live in Catalonia, but today it is very easy, to see programs.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u31	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u32	...as Frequently Asked Questions. Let's see when Spanish Television has given itself a program like the one given on Catalan public television... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u33	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u34	...in which all parties can express themselves absolutely freely. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u36	That's what I said. If you had any interest in us voting differently on Wednesday, you know what you have to do. Thank you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u37	Thank you very much. Silence, please; silence. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u38	Thank you, President. In 2012, the People's Party, after winning the elections, changed the Spanish Broadcasting Act to bring it into line with the parliamentary majority held by the People's Party. In short, a finger, in this case made up of the parliamentary majority. When they came to the government... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u39	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u40	When they came to the government and they were four years, then when we started the legislature... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u41	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u42	With Mr. Tardà you have been very quiet. When we started the legislature we proposed - two years ago, in July 2016 - and we agreed with the Socialist Party and also with Podemos, to which the People's Party ended up adding, a new law of Spanish Broadcasting, a law that for the first time returned to the reinforced majority, but above all began a new path of democracy, the public contest. This was a merit competition, a technical competition, an expert competition, a competition that is currently under way in the Joint Commission. Therefore, at this time, rather than being here today debating a decree and a finger from Mr Sánchez, we should be making progress on how to bring forward a proposal from the expert group. Well, that group of experts, that parallel work, today Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias want to dynamite him. They want to boost a contest for the first time in democracy. The Federation of Journalists' Unions has just issued a statement defending that all public media are chosen by this method, by public competition, but you, ladies and gentlemen, don't care what the journalists say; you don't care what the professionals say; you don't care what almost a billion public budget money has on public television; you don't care if the Spanish want plurality or freedom. Whatever, what you want is to control, as the People's Party did or as the Socialist Party now wants to do. Of course, we do not believe that this is urgent either, because the competition is obviously underway and could have been resolved, nor is it certainly decent, because it is not decent that in this House today we are discussing how to charge ourselves with an approved law in this House. [[Applauds]] Therefore, with regard to the objective of the law that we are promoting, where many Members have worked, where a great effort has been made - and the work of all the groups has to be recognised - an agreement has been reached for the motion of censure by Mr Sánchez, an agreement by the back door, without going through the ballot box, with Mr Iglesias in an office, with the gentlemen of the Republican Left, with the gentlemen of the PNV, and they have decided that from a public contest we go to the fingertips, that from a public competition we go to the head. All that Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party of the People's Party have criticized are doing the same or worse. That's what you're doing here today. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we are where we were, in the public contest, in the law approved by this House, in what the journalists' unions are asking for, in what the professionals are asking for, and I would dare say that in what millions of Spaniards are asking, they want to make a quality, independent public television with good professionals, and not that in an office politicians decide who runs public television. Mr. Iglesias said a few years ago - I think in 2013-: Give me one of the two televisions and let others manage the golf courses. That is what Mr. Iglesias wants, to control the newspapers, and in this law, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of controlling the newspapers. It's about the work being done by the professionals; that the parties and politicians paint nothing; that it's a committee of experts who propose us by score and by contest, as countries like England do. We filled our mouths talking about the BBC and other models. Do you know what they're doing there? Just public contests, not tokens like the ones we're approving here today. [[Applauds]] Therefore, to the Spaniards who are seeing with shame and shame what is going on these days with names of journalists, burning people, pacting in the offices, obviating the citizenry, I want to tell them that there is another option, that is to make a contest and respect the law. Let's take that path. I propose that you withdraw this decree, that you withdraw this cacicada, and let us return to what this House has approved. I am not telling you what my party or that of others approved, but what this House approved, which is a public contest. Don't be afraid of merit, don't be afraid of capacity, don't be afraid of the independence of professionals, because it's so much better than anything we decide any of us in our parties. [[Rumors]] Therefore, to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to legitimize or participate... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u43	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u44	We are not going to legitimize or participate in this outrage. With us they do not count to carry an existing law, they do not count to carry the independence of the professionals and they do not count so that the Spaniards lose the credibility on our television. We must regain credibility on Spanish Television, and what you are doing this afternoon only helps many Spaniards wonder if we should continue to trust. I think so, this television is worth it, but not this way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u45	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Honestly, I wanted to come up to this rostrum to talk with a more or less relaxed tone, but, Mr. Rivera, after hearing a lie after a lie, it's going to be a little difficult for me. [[Applauds]] I will remind you of the two main reasons why we are here. In the first we agree, it has to do with the cacicada that the Popular Party has done all these years on Spanish Radio Television - also radio, not only Spanish Television -. When that happened, when the People's Party arrived at Spanish Radio Television at the hand of José Antonio Sánchez, that of the papers of Bárcenas, the one who charged Telemadrid - that Mr Sánchez -, he dynamited it absolutely everything, and since then we have seen ourselves with five hundred reports of cases of manipulation, of bad practices, of censorship in Spanish Radio Television carried by the information councils even to the European Parliament. Since that happened, we've seen how you've sold all the public services we had, outsourcing everything and privatizing the sector, exactly as you did in Telemadrid, and that's why we ended up with an ERE of over eight hundred people. When all that happened, you dedicated yourselves to removing from the editorial posts the people who bothered you, even if you did quality journalism - didn't you, Mr. Montoro? - and putting them in the dark rooms, where you didn't bother anyone. You have been violating the labor rights of professionals within Spanish Radiotelevision; you have not covered casualties, for eleven years without opening a public competition call for new workers to enter the workforce. All this has been happening all this time and we are no longer going to allow it; we said it from the beginning: we ended up using Spanish Radio Television to make political propaganda. [[Applauds]] What you have wanted to do all this time, and that is why you have blocked the reform of the law, has been to reach municipal and autonomous elections with this president. That has always been their intention, which they have never said in front of a journalist. [[Applauds]] The second story that has brought us here - and there I do look at you, Mr. Citizens - is the unfortunate story that has happened with the negotiation of the law. I'll tell you quickly. The Socialist Party presents a law to re-adopt the board of directors of Spanish Broadcasting by a two-thirds majority and, if blocked, by agreement of four majority groups. To us, Unite Podemos, that seems insufficient, because we say: As we do so, we will all end up in an office, talking about names and getting to hands if necessary. Sure! We were right, it took a public contest to avoid that situation that we don't like either, go ahead. After all that, after presenting... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u47	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u48	... a United Amendment We can - do not take it from you, as you take it until the women's struggle, Mr Rivera - with the public contest ahead, it added Citizens, indeed; your deputy did very good work - your deputy, not you -. [[applause]] [[Rumors.-Several Members: Hala!]] After that the Socialist Party joined, and after that the People's Party joined. What a wonder! Agreement signed by the parliamentary groups. What happened next? Three months we gave ourselves the deadline to approve that open competition. What happened, gentlemen of the People's Party, now that you like the public contest so much and that you care so much about radio and public television? Blocking, blocking, blocking and blocking week after week. [[Applauds]] Here we find the whole House, all the groups of the House, except the People's Party, signing an agreement that we have defended until the last second, until - oh, surprise! - at the last meeting of the Bureau we realize that Citizens vote with the People's Party and violate the agreement. [[Applauds]] Can you explain to me what this public contest is about, with three clauses that guarantee that the People's Party and you have a majority in that committee of experts? What independence is that? Are you going to tell me? [[Applauds]] Having said that, I insist, our goal remains the public contest. It is the only thing that guarantees that the groups do not go to fights, that the parliamentary groups do not get into an office and that the parliamentary groups do not name anyone, that the real experts, not theirs, nor theirs; the real experts and everyone else. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And after the whole country knows the truth of how things have been, Mr. Rivera, I want to make it clear, if they let me finish... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u50	...that this is only a transitional solution. [[Laughs.-Speaks.-Applause.]] We're not giving up the public contest.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we support this only and exclusively as a transitional solution. I hope to keep them next door. And, gentlemen of Esquerra, I want to end a single reflection on you. We have always been in favour of everything being talked about, of this government talking to Catalonia about what is happening in Catalonia. We will continue to do so, but the people who pay for Public Radio Television, also Catalans and Catalans, do not deserve to deal with the Catalan conflict and the situation that is being experienced in Catalonia in the way that is being done in Spanish Radio Television. Mr Tardà, don't be complicit in that because it's not for anyone, it's for Catalan citizens either. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing.- Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera, already in her seat, raises her left fist turning towards the members of her parliamentary group.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent, each and every one of you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Camacho Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I was asking the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party in his speech why we have come this far. He explained it very well, so I'm not going to affect it because it would be wasting time and the clock flies. However, there is one issue that is important. One thing is what happened before the Council of Ministers approved this royal decree-law and another why this royal decree-law is approved. It must be made very clear, and the whole House must know this, to those ladies and gentlemen who are not involved in these issues of Spanish Broadcasting, that last day 22 there was no board of directors because four members of it five and a half years ago had their term expired. By the way, I think the time the People's Party has been running and they have never bothered to renew it. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, five and a half years. And the other five on day 22 fulfilled their mandate, so they could actually continue in office, but, by chance, on the board of directors before day 22 the former president, who at that time would be in office, raised a number of things that are inconceivable. If you want we can discuss it, but I think it is well known to all. Does that empowerment of the directors of Spanish Radio-television so that they could do whatever they wanted for the duration of this board of directors seem logical to you? Would it make sense for you to do so? The Socialist Party certainly does not, and it is the responsibility of the Socialist Government to put the measures on the table so that this could not happen for a single day on Spanish Radio. What could be done? Mr. Rivera, you've already had your glory minutes there, from the seat. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: And you now]] Yeah, exactly like me, but I'm gonna tell you one thing, when you take the microphone, the first thing you have to do is not lie. [[Rumors]] Can you tell me in what article of this royal decree-law it is said that for this House to carry it forward the public contest is repealed? Can you tell me? [[Rumors]] Does he say that somewhere? He doesn't say it anywhere, he says it's a temporary and exceptional situation. [[Protests.-Applause.]] No, no, don't be like that. Tell me where you put it, tell me instead of lying. Instead of lying to the citizens, tell them where that appears, because it doesn't appear anywhere, Mr. Rivera. I understand your position, that you want to remain now as adalids of the defense of the professionals, but it is not true. [[Rumors]] That's not what you're trying to do. If that were true and you were interested in the plurality and independence of public broadcasting you would not have supported the proposal of the People's Party the other day at the Bureau. With this proposal - has been told by the spokesman of Podemos - the People's Party and Citizens had the majority on the expert council. [[Rumors]] We had already talked about that more than once and more than twice; that is the reality. You're still committed to that, Mr. Rivera. [[The Rumors Continue]] But not by repeating many times that you want the public contest to go ahead, you are going to fool the citizens, because the public contest is going to go ahead, whether you want it or not, it is going to go ahead and in as short a time as possible. [[protests]] By the way, Mr Rivera and other members of the House, I ask you to be quick, that once and for all - but seriously, not trying to cheat - we agree to carry out this public contest with the participation of all, not a few. Why are citizens so committed to leaving out the Basque Nationalist Party, Esquerra, Compromís, all minority groups? Why do they have this commitment not to take part in a public contest, which is precisely about transferring plurality to all? Why are you so eager to do this? [[Rumors]] What I'm asking is that we all participate in that renovation. It is something new in this country; such a renewal had never been made through a public competition. We will carry it forward among all and, moreover, in the shortest possible time. I ask all members of the House, not just you. What I am asking you to do is to stop deceiving the citizens and to really start doing what we have to do, just as this government has done by taking forward this royal decree so that public broadcasting will not continue to do what has been happening until now as a result of the modification made by the People's Party. That's what we're trying to do. Mr Tardà, you asked for a number of questions in the rostrum. The Government is ready to dialogue with you to the same extent as with all others, but especially with you, about everything that is necessary. But this dialogue must be reciprocal between the two parties; from Catalonia to the Government of Spain and from the Government of Spain to Catalonia. There's no problem, I can assure you. We hope that this is the case, but on both sides. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u55	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreno Bustos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Parliamentary Control of Spanish Radio-television for the past fourteen years, I assure you that I have never seen such a shameful and shameful spectacle, in which the government, as a zoco, is auctioning public television in Spain. [[protests]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Among the priorities of our country was not last month the need to assault Spanish Radio Television, although it was among those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Among the objectives of viability and future in Spanish Radiotelevision was in no way to encounter a democratic regression as serious and harmful as a decree. Do you know what this music sounds like? To that program, Aló President; that's what it sounds like. I would like to remind you that after reaching a closed agreement last September between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, you, gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, not only broke it, but you began to make multiple tumbles, bandages and continuous changes of opinion - believe me that to an unheard-of degree - on how to cope with the renewal of the Spanish Broadcasting Council. But since it is already a standard of conduct, and I want to warn your fellow travellers to stay, the Socialist Parliamentary Group turns out that it kept an ace in the sleeve, which was to skip all parliamentary agreements, disregard the procedure approved to make a public contest and ultimately bet on a clearly chavista and Bolivarian formula to fall to lead and without faces on Spanish Radiotelevision. [[All right, cheers. Rumours. Laughs.]] It is clear that for the government of Pedro Sánchez it was a priority and an aspiration to become an okupa of Spanish Radiotelevision. It's practically his first decision. Where's the urgency to take that demeanor? The only urgency, disguised as an excuse, is to respond to an election campaign paid by all Spaniards and a partisan strategy to try to turn Spanish Radio Television into a public medium subject to the political interests of the Government. [[Rumors]] That simple. By the way, why haven't we validated the decree-law before choosing the counselors? Maybe because they don't have the support to win that vote? Can you imagine that Congress won't validate that decree later? Do you know why this hastyness? Because Mr. Sánchez urgently needs us to pay him among all his ridiculous image campaign. And I wonder, why have they not done the same and with that urgency with the Ombudsman or with the Court of Auditors? Or will the next decree also eliminate the majorities to elect the General Council of the Judiciary? Anything, because you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, are shown to be worth anything, and if not, there is nothing more to see how your formula puts Parliament on the brink of absurdity and drags Spanish Radio Television into a very pernicious instability, demonstrating who, for what and until when was behind some campaigns of disqualification and mourning of Spanish Radio Television in recent years. [[Rumors]] We do not share or accept at all the Chavista and socialist decree or the crisis that generates and we will fight it with all the legal tools within our reach, because setting such a precedent would be harmful for Spanish Radio and Television and for democracy itself. We have never been part of the problem, we have always been contributing our grain of sand to the solution asking for the legality of the process and we have not changed our mind every five minutes. We are going to be part of responsibility and without renouncing the criticism of this temporary, transitional board of directors or as ridiculously you want to call it. Staying on the sidelines, as the Socialist Party did in 2012 to then devote all its energies to fighting the good name of Spanish Radiotelevision, was also a test of inconsistency and irresponsibility. As it was to present an appeal of unconstitutionality by a decree-law after ten months without presidency in Spanish Radiotelevision and now issue a decree with an urgency that simply does not exist. The solution for Spanish Radio Television is to launch immediately a public contest with all the legal guarantees that our group had requested and that have been incorporated in the resolution approved by Congress and to move on as soon as possible to such a bochronous initiative, with a dictatorial bias that only gives away the irrefutable greed of the Government and its vice president, Mr. Iglesias, for controlling Spanish Radio Television. [[Applauds]] From the Popular Parliamentary Group we will do everything possible, from the political responsibility we have and assume as the first party of Spain, to continue defending an essential public service such as Spanish Radiotelevision. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Spanish Broadcasting has brought us all black Fridays, but what you now want to bring is permanent mourning and burying it alive. Thank you very much. [[- A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u57	Thank you very much. In five minutes the votes will begin. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber.-Pausa]] We shall proceed to the vote for the election of the members of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio and Television. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. The doors of the Chamber shall remain closed during the voting. The vote will be on the ballot system. Each Member shall write on the ballot up to a maximum of six names. I would remind you that only ballot papers containing the names of the proposed candidates up to a maximum of six, as well as blank ballot papers, will be considered valid. In this vote two telematic votes have been cast, the one by Dona María Auxiliadora Honorato Chulián and the one by Dona María Isabel Salud Areste, which I will proceed to introduce in the ballot box. I ask the Madam Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. The secretary-generals of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. The vote was over, he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, has no Member been called to vote? [[Pause]] Thank you very much. Let's proceed to scrutiny. You can open the doors. [[Pause]] "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-07-02-CD180702.u59	The voting was as follows: votes cast, 306; votes in favour of dona Rosa María Artal Martínez, 150; votes in favour of don Juan José Baños Loinaz, 150; votes in favour of dona Concepción Cascajosa Virino, 150; votes in favour of dona Cristina Fallarás Sánchez, 150; votes in favour of dono Tomás Fernando Flores, 150; votes in favour of dono Víctor Sampedro Blanco, 150; votes in favour of dono Eladio Jareño Ruiz, 128; votes in favour of dono Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, 128; votes in favour of dono Manuel González-Sicilia Llamas, 128; votes in favour of dono Juan Pablo Artero Muñoz, 128; votes in favour of dono Luis de la Matta Cantó, 128; votes in favour of dona María Nieves Cristina Alcaine Hernández, 128; votes in blank, 27; votes null, 1. In the absence of a two-thirds majority required in the first vote, a further vote is taken forty-eight hours after the previous vote, in accordance with Royal Decree-Law 4/2018, in which the absolute majority of the House will be sufficient, as well as at least half of the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies. The plenary session of the House can therefore meet with the legal possibility of deciding from seventeen and five minutes on Wednesday, 4 July. This Presidency will therefore convene the plenary session of the House on 4 July at seventeen o'clock to proceed to the second vote, with the expectation that, regardless of the course of the debate, the vote will in no case begin before seventeen o'clock and five minutes on that day. The meeting rose. It was five and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
