ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u1	The meeting was resumed. This plenary part-session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion on the proposal for a reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. I therefore announce to you, pursuant to this provision, that the votes will not take place before 1.30 p.m.; they will not be allowed to take place before 1.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u2	We now begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 8/2018 of 3 August, amending Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, regulating the Activation for Employment Programme, corresponds. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On August 3, the Government adopted Royal Decree-Law 8/2018, amending Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of December 19, which regulates the Employment Activation Programme, whose validation I come today to request from this House. Before entering into the specific content of this rule, it must be placed in its context. First, reference should be made to the origin of the standard; the completion, on 30 April 2018, of the deadline for admission to the Activation for Employment Programme produced by not having been extended, as in previous years, the Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, which regulates, as previously stated, the Activation for Employment Programme, better known as the EAP. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the Government and the social partners signed on 15 December 2014 the agreement on the Special Employment Activation Programme, with the aim of improving employability and providing new opportunities for unemployed and unemployed workers with greater difficulty of integration. As a result of the above-mentioned agreement, Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December was adopted, which, as I mentioned, regulates this program known as the EAP. This extraordinary and specific programme is aimed at long-term unemployed persons with family burdens who are in a situation of special need and are actively seeking employment. The programme was extended twice by Royal Decree-Law 1/2016 of 15 April and Royal Decree-Law 7/2017 of 28 April. The latter allowed the recipients to submit their application to join the programme until 30 April 2018. In the absence of an extension of the programme for 2018 by the above-mentioned date of 30 April 2018, it would have concluded the possibility of admitting new additions to the programme, although the programme will remain in force as long as the persons admitted to that date carry out the corresponding activation actions for employment and receive the accompanying financial aid recognised up to the period of its maximum duration, which is six months. What the Government has sought with this policy change is to resolve the undesirable effect of the closure of the programme on that date. Persons who had caused temporary lay-off in the programme for any of the reasons referred to in Article 5.2 of Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December - i.e. placement on their own or on their own account, or loss of the requirement of family income or liabilities during the periods of time specified in that paragraph - could not be reinstated despite having already recognized the right, since the reinstatement should necessarily have taken place before 30 April of this year. The non-extension of the Employment Activation Programme would mean leaving the persons participating in the programme unprotected, who have also shown greater involvement in the programme with a view to their employment, and violates the purpose of the Employment Activation Programme itself as set out in Article 1.2 of Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, which is to increase opportunities for return to the labour market. They would be penalized, ultimately, for having done so, for having fulfilled that objective, disincentiveing possible temporary placements during the development of the same, since the acceptance of a short-term job would imply the exit of the program without any possibility of reintegrating into it. Therefore, in order to avoid this unfavourable situation, Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December 2014 is amended, so often mentioned, allowing for the possibility of reinstatement until the programme is completed, which lasts six months. Finally, reincorporation means avoiding a situation of inequality between those who have not caused temporary loss and those who have, given that the rights initially have been recognized equally by both persons. We consider that, given these background and the reasons for this rule, the extraordinary and urgent need that the Constitution requires in article 86 to approve in due course Royal Decree-Law 8/2018 of 3 August, of which I would like to comment, is well justified. It is allowed in this royal decree-law that in the cases of temporary discharge established in the same one the reincorporation can occur until the development of the program is completed. In this regard, it has been taken into account that the Employment Activation Programme, as previously stated, regulated by this standard, remains in force for participants who joined it until the 30th of April, since only the possibility of admitting new participants from this date has disappeared. Therefore, since this possibility is restricted to the limited period remaining until the programme is completed, because the extension has not taken place, this measure should be implemented urgently, otherwise these situations would be permanently unprotected, since the implementation of the programme will be completed in the coming months, once the participation of the persons admitted is completed before 30 April 2018. In order to alleviate this negative effect which I have just commented on, Article 5.3 of the Royal Decree-Law is amended in the following sense. The temporary reduction in the programme - says the text - and in the aid for the causes provided for in the preceding paragraph, the right to reinstate the programme may be recognized, provided that it is requested, as long as the programme remains in force and the requirements laid down in points (d) are established - refers, in particular, to the lack of the right to contributory or assistance protection for unemployment or to active income for inclusion, the RAI - and (f) - refers, in particular, to the absence of income of any kind exceeding 75 % of the monthly inter-professional minimum wage - of Article 2, as well as, where appropriate, to the cessation of work on behalf of others, accrediting the legal situation of unemployment. Reincorporation shall require prior registration as an employment applicant and the reactivation of the activity commitment. The period of time during which the worker is temporarily unemployed in the programme without receiving financial aid, as provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article, shall not be counted for the duration of the aid. It is therefore more than justified for the Government to adopt this decision as a matter of urgency in order to prevent this unfavourable and potentially unprotected situation from affecting an extremely needy group, persons who have exhausted all kinds of aid and, in addition, acknowledge the existence of family responsibilities on their behalf and who would not be able to receive economic aid and actions to improve employability, the right of which had already been recognized at the outset. Moreover, these persons could not benefit from the extraordinary unemployment benefit provided for in the new additional provision 28th of the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 of 30 October, incorporated into it by paragraph 5 of the final provision 40th of the Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2018, which has temporarily replaced the activation programmes for employment and professional retraining of persons who exhaust their protection by unemployment, since paragraph 3 of the provision expressly precludes access to the extraordinary benefit to those who were previously recognized as accompanying economic assistance established in the Activation Programme for Employment. They would therefore be excluded from eligibility for this benefit. If this royal decree-law had not been passed, it is estimated that a maximum of 41,910 people could be left unprotected - by the way, most of them, around 65%, would be women - who would have a recognized right and could resume it, the average period remaining for them to receive the subsidy at around 2.7 months. This regulatory change is supported by both the social partners and the autonomous communities. At the meeting of the Bureau for Employment and Labour Relations for Social Dialogue, held on 26 June, the social partners, i.e. the most representative business organizations, CEOE and Cepyme, and the most representative trade union organizations, UGT and Workers' Commissions, were shown in accordance with the text of this royal decree-law. Similarly, the Autonomous Communities, which were informed of the processing of this royal decree-law at the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs, held on 25 July, showed their support for it. At that meeting on 25 July, they were provided with the draft text and on 1 August, at a sectoral conference held through the videoconferencing system, they showed their support for it. However, the sectoral conference showed - and this was also considered by the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security - that a review of all these programmes was to be carried out in order to bring them into line with the constitutionally recognized competences of the State and the Autonomous Communities and to carry out an in-depth review of these programmes. In short, the nature of the measures to be introduced required a rule of law, and the figure of the royal decree-law was considered adequate to meet this requirement. Therefore, I ask the House to validate this royal decree-law, in accordance with article 86 of the Spanish Constitution, trusting that the parliamentary groups will show their sensitivity in order to resolve the situation that I have just described to them. Thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u4	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security. The validation of the rules governing the activation plan for employment is beginning to be a classic of national parliamentarianism, because since the signing at the end of 2014 of the agreement on the Special Activation Programme for Employment, PAE, this will be the fourth time that a series of urgent measures are discussed in Congress that, in any case, we believe are justified, and hence the favorable vote of the Forum is already anticipated. Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment has been one of the main concerns of the Spanish people for decades and, although there has been a gradual job creation in the last five years, threats to the labour market persist and recent negative statistics have even appeared, as they are known last week on unemployment in August; the worst in a very long time. In this regard, let me point out that, if they are alarming data for all Spaniards, they are even more so for Asturias, with a fall in the region of 6.02%, below the variations seen since 2014 and more than 2 points lower than the decrease of 2017 - which was 8.78 %-, and with social security affiliations that record the worst national data, 0.73%, with the aggravating being the worst registration since 2014, with 2682 affiliations. The EAP was conceived with a broad political consensus and by trade unions and employers to facilitate support for certain groups of workers in the face of overall unemployment rates above 15%. Although it is not good news to note that there is still a long way to go to achieve full employment - which you Socialists, Mrs Valerio, promised in 2008, and we have already seen the catastrophe that followed - we agree to re-enable the complementary measures that benefit and protect the unemployed workers that are contemplated in this royal decree-law that the minister has explained. In fact, the current General State Budgets contain an extraordinary activation subsidy for employment pending completion, if the Government is in that line, which seems not to be due to the recent socialist precedents in relation to the approach of a new supplementary income system of unemployment announced by her predecessor in the ministry, Mrs Báñez, which we believe she has made good management, based on the calamity of work that was found at the end of 2011. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u6	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u7	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, this is not a kind of new royal decree in recent years, this validation of extensions and extraordinary aid that has been built during these years of the crisis. It is very clear that this new royal decree and the need to validate it this morning expresses a fundamental problem that we have not been able to resolve the various governments, including the majorities of this House in recent years, and that it is able to articulate a system of protection against unemployment capable also of protecting the very long-term unemployed. What the crisis has shown is that the system of social protection against unemployment is capable of protecting the risk of unemployment in a context of a relatively short economic crisis over time and in which people who lose their jobs can return to the labour market with a certain speed. In a context of a crisis as long as this, the Spanish system has made waters. We've been articulating different alternatives, patches always, that have never worked. It is necessary - here we have an ILP that proposed the unions, Workers' Commissions and UGT - an income for very long-term unemployed. There's an unsolved issue. A second issue is that there are also different court rulings that state that the design of these rents that the Government has been building must be managed by the autonomous communities. The former Government has lost all resources before the courts and we again address this royal decree without having resolved this issue: the need for autonomous governments to manage these policies. Finally, there is a problem - which I cannot attribute to this minister, much less, but which is one of the main responsibilities of the employment policies of the Spanish governments - which is the failure of active employment policies. In this inability to reintegrate the unemployed more or less quickly into the labour market, we know from those successful international and European experiences that a key factor is the personalized approach to employment policies that allow the unemployed to be as short as possible in unemployment and, through personalized care and training, to provide a bridge to employment. That in Spain does not work well and there the public employment services are failing and the experiments and innovations that have been made of public-private collaboration are not working either. Madam Minister, I call on you, beyond the patch that is being validated today, to give priority to the Government's action on the substantive issues of long-term unemployment benefit, the autonomous management of these active employment policies and the reform of employment policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u9	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, minister and ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again faced with a repetition of another extension of a new aid for unemployment in the field of active employment policies. We are faced with a specific case that is that of the completion of the EAP, Activation Programme for Employment, precisely on 30 April 2018 and in respect of which it is requested that workers who have participated in the programme can be reinstated cannot return to it because they have been temporarily low for reasons of income or of having obtained a new job. The Minister told us that this aid could affect some 41 000 people, in addition to a very disadvantaged group, and so far I believe that absolutely no one can deny the possibility of such aid. Nor are we going to prevent it, but we want to be extremely critical, both with this action and with the set of actions that have taken place in this area by the different governments, since it is not only the responsibility of this one Government. The Minister knows that we are going to be critical for a fundamental reason, and it is that there is already a precedent with the Preparatory Plan that, since there was a ruling from the Constitutional Court that these policies, as Mr Campuzano has just pointed out, should have been exercised by the autonomous communities, however they were not, nor did the extensions assume that reality, but that they continued with this dynamic that it was the services of the central administration, the SEPE in particular, who continued to provide these aid. It happens that if before it was the judgment 100/2017 it is now the judgment 153/2017, of December, that regarding the EAP, the Activation Program for Employment, points out the same jurisdictional defect. In other words, we are talking about a specific legal title referred to in 149.1.13.a of the Constitution in respect of which the State has been told that it could not act and that it should have transferred to the autonomous communities that capacity to resolve these specific aids and other previous ones. However, we are continuing with the same situation, that is, as a result of a situation of need for a highly disadvantaged group, we are going to remain good and we are going to continue to allow this exceptional situation to continue to be extended. The answer is that we are not going to support it, but we are not going to prevent it either, that is to say, we are going to abstain, mainly because we want our criticism of this action by this Government and also of the previous one, because it is a continuous action in this direction, and also because, as a result of the amendment of the budget law which introduced the extraordinary unemployment benefit, we are very much afraid that this policy will lead to an even more dangerous one, which is to insert such policies in the area of social security benefits, thus not allowing the autonomous communities to exercise these specific policies. Mr Campuzano told him, and he was right, that we have a specific problem with these groups of long-term unemployed, but we also have it not only because it has not yielded results, not only because the judgments have blurred the design that the State had made, but also because they are not effective and, being not effective, however there have been examples to say where they have been effective and how they have been: when they have been exercised in the Basque country by the services themselves of unemployment and having obtained concrete results. Why, then, are the Governments, the latter and the former, rejecting this consequence of the rulings of the Constitutional Court and this experience, which is more satisfactory on the part of the autonomous communities? Madam Minister, as I have said, we are not going to oppose this because this collective cannot be held responsible in any way, but we do want to see with our abstention a serious focus, especially because we understand that this policy has a logical design, that of the policies best suited by the closeness precisely to the realities in which these disadvantaged groups of long-term unemployed find themselves. We ask you, Minister, to take initiatives, as you have said at the sectoral conference, to formulate other measures which will take account of these aids in a comprehensive manner and in accordance with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. That is why, Minister, we have already put our vote to you, but I would ask you to speed up the work of your own ministry in this particular area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u10	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u11	Good morning to everyone, good morning to everyone and everyone. Be my first words of solidarity with Willy Toledo. Esquerra Republicana and much of the people of Catalonia express our solidarity with Willy Toledo, another victim of this unjust justice that pursues ideas, that pursues freedom of expression, that imprisons rapists, that imprisons actors, that imprisons any political dissent. [[applause]] That hole goes for you, too, Willy Toledo. Forward! [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, we understand the urgency of the processing of this royal decree-law, I think it is correct and we congratulate it on it, because it was necessary, but it is clear that these kinds of benefits and programmes cannot continue to ignore the rulings of the Constitutional Court or continue to invade the powers of the autonomous communities in the area of active employment policies. I think this is important. That said, the amendment proposed by Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 seems to us good - as I said - while introducing the possibility that those who had suspended the right of the Preparation can access to recover the benefit for the time remaining, since they cannot join the new extraordinary subsidy that created the Budgets Act. That is, this royal decree-law enables people to recover and exhaust what they had already recognized and to do as quickly as possible, taking into account that the economic amount is already budgeted. The objective, therefore, seems to us to be laudable, since it is to prevent - as you have said - around 41 000 people from being unprotected without financial aid because they cannot rejoin the programme after its extension of 30 April 2018. The Republican Left, obviously and according to its historical commitment to the working classes, will not vote against or do with its vote - which will be favorable - that these thousands of people will be left unprotected. Our vote - which is once again - is only - to make it clear - that these more than 40 000 people will cover the amount they lack. Our vote will safeguard a group in need of protection, as they are people who have exhausted all kinds of aid and who have responsibilities and family burdens. In this way, we prevent these people from being left unprotected by the fact that they are unable to reintegrate, as I said, into the Prepare programme despite the initial recognition of the right they already had. Our vote, moreover, is in line with that of the UGT unions and the Workers' Commissions, which have blessed the approval of this royal decree that will allow the unemployed without benefits who interrupted the payment of the unemployment benefit of 430 euros to continue to receive it. The economic impact is about 53 million euros, according to the General Budgets of the State of 2018, which are manageable, and for all this we will vote in favour. Now, let us be clear that our vote is favourable only so as not to harm the weakest segments of society; if it were for the respect you have for the self-government of Catalonia, we would vote that not in a unanimous way. There will be time, if they continue on the subject of Catalonia with the policies of the block of 155. That is why, just as last week, when we voted in favour of universal health, we voted today in favour of an act in solidarity with the most disadvantaged, be they from the people who are and from anywhere in the world, but we remind them that if they continue to legislate against the powers passed and against judicial decisions in this regard, we will no longer support them. That is why - and I repeat - while Catalonia continues to fight peacefully and democratically for its national sovereignty - because this is not over; whoever thinks this is over is wrong and much - we are concerned about the interests of the humble and we will always continue to vote accordingly. As this happens, we demand respect for self-government in the issue of active occupation policies for this particular issue and for the present and, for the future, for any other model or system of social protection or active occupation policies presented to us, because they are our competences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u12	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, minister. My parliamentary group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law and will do so basically for two reasons. The first is a fundamental reason that has already been said here. This is the regulatory change aimed at the most vulnerable people within the group of unemployed workers, that is, the long-term unemployed with family burdens, who are in a situation of special need and who, after the active search for employment and having worked for a while in a temporary placement, have seen themselves unable to reintegrate into this Employment Activation Programme precisely because of an administrative problem, a bureaucratic problem that has left them unprotected. We understand that this problem should be corrected and, as I say, on a substantive point, we will vote in favour. We will also do so on a formal basis. In this case we understand that it is urgent and that the situation is extraordinary, because, if not, these beneficiaries would be permanently unprotected, since the implementation of the programme - as you have said very well - ends in the coming months. Having said that, Minister, I would like to use these minutes in this rostrum to convey to you the great concern of my group, as other speakers have done here, for which it remains one of the biggest problems in this country, which is nothing other than unemployment and the measures that your Government is putting on the table to fight against it. As you know, we have a very complicated legacy in terms of unemployment, especially in the long term. We have seen this with the latest data, according to which the long-term unemployed are already more than half of the total unemployed. It is an inheritance that means that Spain is the only country in the whole of the OECD that has exceeded 20% of the unemployment rate on three occasions since 1980, both with socialist governments and with the governments of the People's Party; at present, we continue - despite the fact that the data have been improving - to double the unemployment rates of the European average. And it is a fact that neither your governments nor the governments of the People's Party have applied appropriate prescriptions over the past thirty years to fight effectively against this scourge for our economy, against this scourge for our society, and so it goes, Minister, so we have the data I spoke to you about earlier. [[Applauds]] It is not that we alone - Mr Campuzano, in these these theses we agree - that is what the European Commission is saying. The European Commission has been highlighting our weaknesses in the fight against unemployment every six months. And you know what the European Commission tells us? The key is active employment policies; the importance of promoting the rapid transition from employment to employment and, above all, from unemployment to employment; of linking generous benefits to compulsory activation routes in which, on the other hand, there must be intensive investment; of balancing active and passive employment policies, which have not been given either with their governments or with the governments of the People's Party; in which the solution is to improve training for the reintegration of workers; of leaving this training to the hands of workers in order to avoid cases of corruption such as those allegedly affecting their party in Andalusia; of having a statistical profile in order to be able to provide the unemployed with adequate integration routes and, above all - which has not been done - in the ongoing evaluation of employment policies in order to improve their coordination by all administrations, to improve their effectiveness and, also, to improve their transparency. [[applause]] However, in recent years - and until citizens came to this Parliament - there has been quite the opposite: drastic cuts in spending on active employment policies, with a great imbalance between active and passive policies, spending much more money on passive policies - subsidies, etc. - than on active policies. This is what we have tried to change and we have managed to change in the last 2017 General State Budgets and also in the 2018 General State Budgets, which we hope you will implement now that you are in government, because we have already seen, Minister, in these 100 days of government that you are providing very few solutions to unemployment. I have already told you in your appearance in the Employment Committee that it seemed to me that there were few solutions, precisely because we believe that they do not have them and, in the end, time, Minister, is giving us reason. [[Applauds]] But that is not only the case, Madam Minister, and hence our growing concern about what I was referring to at the beginning of my speech. Unfortunately, what they are doing is aggravating the problem. We just need to look at the latest data from August on membership and employment. The fall of the month of August - and you yesterday, answering Mr Camps' question, were right - is marked by the end of the campaign, by a marked seasonality, but it is the worst August in the last ten years, Minister. In less than a hundred days of government they already have a record in terms of job destruction in a single month in the last decade: 200,000 jobs. You will understand that this for my group is worrying: record in the last ten years. I would like to convey this concern to you because, from our point of view, the best recipe for combating unemployment is job creation and, without a doubt, if there is something fundamental in job creation, it is the creation of a confidence scenario, a stability scenario on the part of governments, and I do not think that your tax hikes announcements, your cost increases announcements to companies through the blurring of contribution bases or the increase in the quotas of self-employed people and SMEs, which are the major job generators in this country, are generating that confidence scenario. We do not believe, Minister, that empowering the economy to multiply costs and taxes is the solution. Nor do we believe that attacking the pocket of the middle classes and the autonomous, as you are supposed to do, is a good solution as the economy seems to be losing its grip, as all economic indicators are telling us. We, you know, because we have negotiated with you at other times a series of measures, we are betting on fiscal restraint, because we understand that it will lead us to more economic activity, it will lead us to more consumption, it will lead us to more collection and, probably, it will also lead us to less unemployment. These are our theses - they are public and they can see on our website -, these are our recipes. [[Applauds]] If you ever decide to go back to the path of economic sanity, you know where we are. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u14	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs. Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u15	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in these months it has been ten years since a crisis began that has led to a loss of rights and employment for the Spanish and the Spanish that we would never have imagined. Our people have gone through years of freezing of the interprofessional minimum wage and also of pensions, with a loss of purchasing power. It has undergone two labour reforms that have made it easier and cheaper to lay off, which have led to the chaining of temporary contracts, which have prioritized company agreements over other agreements, which have widened the path of impunity and substantial changes in working conditions and reduced wages. There have been cuts in our social state treasures, such as public health and education, and it has been caused that many SMEs and autonomous and autonomous have had to close their businesses. We have also seen a historical peak that reached the 5 million unemployed. We have not been able to get out of all these circumstances because of the neoliberal measures and cuts that have taken place in these years. In these years of crisis we have also witnessed an absolutely extravagant fiscal amnesty, a bank bailout that, because of the measures of the People's Party Government, we will never recover and dozens and dozens of cases of corruption. I would love to be able to make a more comprehensive review of the crisis here today, but for reasons of time I will not be able to do so, so I am going to go to the bottom of the matter. You will agree with me that the royal decree-law that we are debating today is an absolutely residual measure. I say that it is residual because, in addition to being a temporary programme that has been completed, it could only be accepted by the unemployed if they met thousands of requirements, only for six months and, moreover, with a very low amount, which was only 80% of Iprem. Moreover, it is a residual measure, because very few people are in a position to reintegrate in respect of the people currently in our country who are unemployed and without receiving any benefits. That's right, however little, mean and inefficient this aid is, these people have the right to collect it, and that's why we're going to vote for it, because, after all, it doesn't give a stone. However, we must take advantage of this type of programme to make an assessment, because it would seem that by paying €430 for six months we would no longer need to dress, to eat, to pay bills, to pay rent or mortgage or school supplies and many other things. I am referring to programs such as this same EAP or others such as RAI, Prodi, Plan Prepare or even Youth Guarantee, which have proved to be highly ineffective, absolutely ineffective. Since the crisis began, since the crisis was long enough for unemployed people to lose their benefits, the coverage rate has fallen so much that last year the number of unemployed people came to over 50 per cent, that is, more than half of the unemployed people in our country did not charge anything, but not because there was no money, but rather because the Government did not have that priority, specifically the People's Party Government; that was not their will. This is well exemplified by the budget implementation data in this area. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u16	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u17	Thank you. I will refer exclusively to the Employment Activation Programme. In 2016, 350 million euros were budgeted and only - only - 36,52 % was used; but it is that in 2017, in addition to lowering the budgeted amount, which was 280 million euros, it was executed still less than the previous year, 55,8%, that is about half. This also happens, if we look at the figures, with the Preparation and with the RAI. Did these unemployed people no longer need to be cared for? No, it was not, ladies and gentlemen; it was not a priority for the Spanish Government at that time to rescue our people. Well, it was necessary at that time, in 2017, and it remains so today, with ten years of crisis behind our backs. It is urgent for the unemployed and without benefits in our country; it is urgent for the growing group of people who are working in conditions of tremendous precariousness, very temporary, and it is also urgent for the 300,000 people who were fired and unemployed in August. It is terrible that after ten years of crisis one in five Spanish and Spanish are at risk of poverty. It is terrible that 37% of the Spanish population cannot face unforeseen expenses, but it is even more terrible - or even terrible - that 34% of the Spanish people have not been able to have sufficient resources to leave even a week of vacation and rest. It is absolutely terrible, and this is shown by the quality of life survey. Spanish women need effective solutions, they need a benefit policy in our country that is effective, that benefits stop being skin patches to become a guarantee. We are therefore talking about an urgent change in the benefit system to build a non-contributory social security benefit that is guaranteed, because, ultimately, what our country needs is a courageous Government that has its people as a priority and that makes politics by putting life at the centre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u18	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u19	Good morning, everyone. As the Minister has already said, we come here to ask for your support for a very specific issue, which is to prevent 41,000 people from being left unprotected and losing help - I think this is very important - that they have already recognised. They are also persons without work, without resources and without the right to any benefit, subsidy or income. As Magdalena Valerio has already pointed out, it is a very concrete assumption, and I repeat it to focus on the issue: people who have a recognized right, who have caused a temporary break and who, as she has said, cannot reintegrate into the EAP or any other extraordinary subsidy. The economic impact is 50 million, it has been said here too, and it is already budgeted in the General Budgets of the State. I will make a reference to two issues that have been raised here by different groups. First of all, I would like to say to PNV, Esquerra and PDECAT that we are obviously aware that there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court that has left both the Prep and the PAE without effect, claiming that the employment services of the Autonomous Communities are the ones that have recognized the granting, suspension, resumption and payment of these aids, and that we are aware that that same ruling says that the regulation, as it was, completely ignored the labour competences of the Autonomous Communities, which violated, said the Constitutional Court, the constitutional order. But being aware of this and of the reproach it deserves, we ask them for their support - as I said at the beginning - because we are not creating a new subsidy or reorganizing subsidies or benefits without taking into account the autonomous communities, we simply want these people who have already recognized that aid to be able to collect it. They are people who, as has already been pointed out here many times, are in poverty and have family burdens, and I believe that no political party can avoid it. As you are also aware, the trade union organizations in their day celebrated the approval by the Government of this royal decree-law. With regard to Isabel's claim, from Unite Podemos, that it is a point of order, I have to say that we also know that. It is a measure which seeks to fill this specific gap, because we are aware that the regulation of any programme, the regulation of any aid, the regulation of any subsidy cannot be done, as has been done so far, outside the autonomous communities, not only because of legal issues, but also because they are not left unprotected and because they are not always putting people who are entitled to these benefits into problematic situations. We are also aware that our Government is going to have a hard time, in the sense that we need to review, reorganise and recover a protection of unemployment that has been greatly deteriorated during the years of the People's Party government. We have already said from this very site that the People's Party has cut benefits in these years, tightened access requirements to subsidies and benefits, reduced the amounts of benefits to which the unemployed were entitled, eliminated subsidies such as those over fifty-two years old and, in a dynamic from which we ideologically want to distance ourselves, was replacing rights with aid and betting on temporary programmes. We all know, as my partner in the Union Podemos has said, that they were of little success and, moreover, with many legal-legal problems and without any kind of public investment in active policies and aid for reintegration. Our Government, of course, wants to reverse this situation. We're working on it. As our minister has committed herself, do not doubt the representatives of Esquerra, PDECAT and PNV that it will be done from respect for the autonomous communities and do not doubt the rest of the groups that it will always be done from the recovery of the rights of the unemployed and taking into account this circumstance, which has also been highlighted here, of the long-term unemployment. On this particular issue, we call for their support. These people, I repeat, have already recognized the right, but no public employment service in any autonomous community will recognize and manage beyond rehabilitating the two months and little that says the statistics that remain to be collected from these people without a job. That's our decree-law and we hope to have all the support. I repeat that we are aware - because we ourselves have said so from this site - that unemployment protection currently does not cover the long-term unemployed and that the People's Party has been gradually depriving workers without employment of benefit rights, increasingly giving them that status as a subsidized person. Of course, our Government does not want that. For my part, I would ask those people who are rethinking the vote that, as a political party that is supposed to defend the interests of all citizens, they should do so again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u20	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u21	Good morning, Madam President, Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of validation, as it is about remedying an undesirable effect of the completion of this Employment Activation Programme, a programme that you know has been approved by the People's Party Government, with Minister Báñez. I would also like to remind you that on 30 April this year, when this programme expired and the Preparation, it was precisely this group, the People's Group, which tabled an amendment to approve an extraordinary unemployment benefit until the supplementary income of unemployment was approved, which, by the way, was not approved in the social dialogue because the Socialist Autonomous Communities said no, that they wanted a more ambitious income. Therefore, I ask you, Minister: When will this improved income be approved? Or how are they already in the government going to put this issue away like so many other things? Are you no longer so interested in unemployment protection? The same is true of minimum income, which they wanted to speed up when they were in the opposition and which now they are in the government paralysed saying that they are waiting for the AIReF report, report to which you refused. It's not very credible. But, Minister, the best protection for the unemployed is to create jobs, and you not only do not create jobs but destroy them. With the work it has cost to create jobs! That's why, Your Honor, we're not all the same. The Socialist Party is a machine for destroying jobs; and I don't tell you, there's the data. Madam Minister, this government has broken the record of job destruction. The 31st of August was the day in the history of Spain that the most dismissals took place. If you look at the month of August, it's not like you've scored a goal for the squad, it's like you've scored two hundred thousand; two hundred thousand jobs have been destroyed in the worst August for ten years. [[Applauds]] And of course, someone says, it's been a black August. No, it's the Socialist Party's turn, it's that Mr. Sánchez is a bad copy of Zapatero, it's a plagiarism of Zapatero, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Let's go back with his bandages. With the lack of reforms they are sowing uncertainty, instability and economic slowdown - it says to the OECD - and, moreover, the slowdown exceeds that of Germany, of France and of Italy. Let the balloons probe, ladies and gentlemen; this deceleration is on its way to becoming a brake. And I don't say that, here's the data: retail and large business sales decrease; trade deficit increases; inflation increases: we leave it at 1.6 and it's already going at 2.2. Will you have to pay that difference to the pensioners, or are you no longer going to pay the CPI after everything you asked for, as we saw today? Another correction by the Government of Sánchez. Mortgage signatures have dropped, there have been net outflows of capital. Since governing Mr Sánchez, 11 billion euros have come out of this country. There has been a slowdown in consumption and a rise in light. Up to 35% of the lights went up in August! And I don't hear you talking about energy poverty now. I'm sorry, but it's no way to defend the middle and working classes by raising their light, rising their diesel. Ladies and gentlemen, the management you are doing is a disaster. Even on Spanish Television, the television that was of everyone and that now Pedro Sánchez has given to Pablo Iglesias, the news has lost leadership for the first time in the last twenty-two months. It's just that people don't want their manipulation, ladies and gentlemen! This, in a hundred days of socialist government, supported by Bildu, by the populists of Podemos and by the independenceists who want to break this country, in a hundred days of government - I repeat - is frightening. We have two ministers who have resigned, a minister who is accused, a Director-General for Employment who has had to be suspended for lack of coordination, Your Honor, and even Borrell, who was of the best, has disappointed us all. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, their partners, those of Podemos, have been the ones who have advised Venezuela and are now in ruin, so do not be allowed to advise by those who say they want to raise taxes to the rich and then live in rich chalets. All this economic disaster has to be paid for in some way, and all you think about is increasing spending and raising taxes to everyone, also to the self-employed if you raise the contribution bases. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, stop squeezing, which the Government has learned. This is not a government, this is a mismanagement. You have rectified in almost everything, from labor reform, the publication of the lists of late, immigration, the defense of Judge Llarena, the diesel and Navantia, to the former Minister Montón, whom I support and now drop, and the doctoral thesis of the President of the Government, whether it is published in Theseo or not, whether there is plagiarism or not. [[Several Members: Yes]] [[Rumors]] We need to know the truth, ladies and gentlemen; we need to know the truth. [[Applauds]] And I will tell you something, Your Honor: investor mistrust is no greater because there is a magnificent budget approved by the People's Party, which you voted against. It is a budget that raises pensions, a budget that raises the salaries of officials, a budget that caters to young people with the salary supplement, that makes the salary equalization of national police and civil guards, and that collects measures for families and self-employed people. And I want to tell you that I am very concerned about the subject of tourism and Catalonia. I am from Malaga, and there are countries like the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States that are warning their citizens that if they choose Spain as their destination country they must be careful about instability in Catalonia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, your policy of paging affects us all, not only Catalonia, but also the yellow colour in Andalusia and Malaga. [[Rumors]] Look at you, the newspaper South, from Malaga, says: Touristic frenzy on the Costa del Sol. [[shows the diary]] Today the South newspaper said Malaga airport loses travelers in August for the first time in nine years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned, and we have told you. Bandits, plus pay-per-view policies, create uncertainty and instability, economic slowdown and unemployment. I'm done. Madam Minister, I have told you before, the best protection for the unemployed is to create employment, and you are not on the right track. We cannot go back to the 3,800,000 Spaniards who lost their jobs when the former socialist government ruled. Learn from the People's Party, copy, plagiarism the popular party, which is fashionable. [[Protests.-Applause.]] We have created almost 3 million jobs, and that is our pride, ladies and gentlemen, to create jobs. Others destroy it, so we are not all the same. I'm done. One hundred days of government, only one hundred days of socialist government; never so much damage was done in such a short time. The reality, Your Honor, is that this country is beginning to have a problem with you. [[One Member: Very well, Carolina!-Applause.- The Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security, Valerio Cordero, asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u22	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u23	The truth is that it was going very well in the morning, it was quite quiet and quiet. [[laughs]] We had come here in principle to validate a royal decree-law which implied that about 42 000 people would not miss the opportunity to resume that unemployment benefit, not very high - the spokesman of Podemos was right - of 430 euros, but unfortunately, Mrs Spain Queen, you love to burn and once again you have tried to burn. I have already told you on some occasion in the debate in the Commission that you have digested fatally leaving the Government. [[Applauds]] He's been misdigested, he's been totally choked. [[Rumors]] Do you know why your government party came out? Because they've been a corruption generating machine. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u25	I will make a recommendation to you, Queen Spain. When demanding ethical and political responsibilities, look at your own bench and your own leader. [[Applauds]] And here I'm going to leave it, to focus on the validation of the royal decree-law. [[Protests.-Applause.-Protests by Mrs Álvarez Álvarez pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u26	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. They know I don't like to call one to order, but Mrs. Angeles, I call to order. Also by gestures you can call to order. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u27	With regard to the intervention of the rest of the leaders of each group in this House on the subject before us, which is the validation of the royal decree-law, I would like to make it clear that we are aware that a review of all these forms of unemployment benefit - PAE, Prep, RAI, etc. - is pending, that we now have a firm decision to do so, and that we want the regulation of these subsidies at this level of assistance to be done in accordance with the jurisdictional framework and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. Legislation needs to be simplified. This issue has not been forgotten, but it was agreed, together with the autonomous communities at the sectoral conference on 25 July, that we should all get to work. I would also like to point out to you that a group has been set up at the Social Dialogue Bureau to study and adopt agreements on active employment policies and unemployment protection systems. Within this group, the reform of the unemployment protection system, the replacement of these programmes, and outstanding issues such as the recovery of the allowance of over fifty-two years old, will be addressed. We are also waiting for the AIReF report, which has been made clear here this morning, on the minimum income ILP. This Government will therefore take this situation very seriously and take the relevant measures. We are also aware, and on top of the Social Dialogue Bureau, that active employment policies need to be reviewed. It is clear that we need to take, in coordination with the autonomous communities, a whole series of measures to bet on further retraining. There is an ad hoc group to work on training: training for employment, training for people who are currently working, continuing training, training for people who are unemployed and who need vocational retraining, and of course will do so in coordination with the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, which will also be part of this working group, and thus fully connect regular training and vocational training with the world of work, with the labour market. And since it could not be otherwise we know that we have to bet on the personalized routes of insertion; that we have to make an effort, in coordination with the autonomous communities, so that all those who are unemployed can re-establish themselves professionally and can re-enter the labour market as soon as possible and in the best way possible. This government - I have already said this here on more than one occasion - wants to bet of course on more employment, and we are not happy with the latest unemployment data on the registered unemployment rate; we know that we have to make efforts, I have already commented here that they have not been good data, but it is also true that there are a number of peculiarities in our labour market, it is not good that the last day of the month coincides with a Friday; finally, I have already made clear here yesterday some practices that I hope will be eradicated, and that this master plan of promotion, of fighting for a job worthy of results and every time in this country not only has more employment, but that employment is less precarious, less temporary and of much more quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause.-Mrs. Spain Queen asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u28	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u29	By allusions, Madam President, to Rule 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u30	You have a minute to explain the allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u31	The truth is that I regret that you have been disturbed, I have simply tried to find a reality that today came in all media on the economic issue and on plagiarism. But look, I am Andalusian and the subject of EREs pains me in the soul, that is, that the money of the... [[protests]] [[Protests]] Of course, it's just that the minister has been talking about corruption in the People's Party, and all I'm saying is that I'm sorry that the money from the unemployed has gone down the road...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u32	Mrs. Spain... [[Rumors]] Madam Spain, by virtue of the article to which you have referred and by which I have given you the floor, because I have given it to you on the basis of that article, please refer to the reference. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u33	Yeah. The allusion was to the corruption of the party, and I am telling you that the corruption of the Socialist Party in Andalusia, after forty years of socialist government... [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u35	Madam President, out of respect for this House and for all the people we are representing here, I as a member of the Government and all of you as Members of Parliament, I am not going to go into any more provocations. I have previously forgotten, and I conclude, to thank all the parliamentary groups, because in general they will vote yes to the validation of the royal decree-law, and the PNV because it has reconsidered its no and is going to abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u36	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 9/2018, OF 3 AUGUST, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE STATE COVENANT AGAINST GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 130/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u37	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 9/2018 of 3 August of urgent measures for the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence. To present the Royal Decree-Law, on behalf of the Government, the Vice-President, Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u38	President, Members and Members, on behalf of the Government, but certainly also on behalf of the whole House, such an appearance for the validation of a real decree that the Government brings to this House must begin by transferring our support, our solidarity and also our commitment to work to all victims, to all murdered women and to the plight of children who are orphaned by their mothers. [[Mr. Vice-President, Prendes Prendes, takes the Chair.]] In the course of the month we have 4 women killed in Asturias, Castellón, Madrid and Zaragoza; 957 women within the time frame within which we have statistics; 25 minors who have also been killed, 19 orphans and 33 women killed in the course of the year. We also have one case still under investigation in relation to one woman and two minors. In short, we are facing the most important challenge of our duty as public officials, because we are talking about a constant tragedy, we are talking about the insecurity of women, we are talking about unbearable violence in a peaceful society, which is the foundation of a democratic society like ours. There can be no truce, there can be not a single resource that we can have from the public administrations and from all the powers of the state that we do not act to face up to every day. Women are killed simply because they are murdered, in a macho society that still does not understand women's freedom, respect for their lives, the dignity and quality of each and every one of their rights. That is why the Government has not lost a single moment, and has not lost it because it brings with it the cause of this House and of the Senate, of the General Courts, of the work that has been done in the General Courts for an important time of reflection, of consensus, of calling attention and of listening to all the technical and qualified opinions, of which we have as a State an important instrument of navigation to face, to prevent and to react to this tragic situation. We call it the Covenant against Gender Violence, a state agreement, a state policy, which means that we decided to take an unusual path in politics, a path in which we all lowered the weapons of legitimate confrontation, the natural discrepancies of a diverse society like ours and made ourselves available to the ultimate goal: to tackle macho violence against women and the protection of minors as a value superior to what we are all committed to work. We have, as I said, an instrument that obliges us all to work in a different way from daily political work. We had loyalty, unity, coordination and encounter. That is an exceptional instrument of democratic life and requires all of us to make an effort. We will not always carry out everything exactly as we see it from our political position, but in return we give in a magnanimous way the great obligation we have to stop the murders and the victims they leave behind. That is why, when almost a year is due to come into force of this pact, now in this month of September, the government - I repeat - has used the fastest instrument available to it, the royal decree, without invading competences that it cannot in organic matters preserved in the Constitution, and - important because we talk about a pact of all against gender violence - also using the consensus and agreement with those who have a higher share of responsibility, which are the public administrations: the General Administration of the State - which responds to the Government of Spain - but also the autonomous communities, the municipalities, the provincial disputations; in short, the local corporations, because from them, in the field of the executive branch, it is from where we can dispose of the effective action of this pact that is already a year old. And because in that space, which is where the effectiveness of what has been agreed in this House, but also in the Senate, we do not waste a single moment of time. We met in preparatory meetings on 5 and 25 July, and on 31 July at a sectoral conference where, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement and consensus were reproduced without a single fissure of those who from executive responsibilities understood that we were developing the pact in some of its measures, and making public funds available for the policies they had to develop. We did not lose a minute, from the minute one of the effectiveness of the General Budgets of the State, to work with the administrations and find a space of rapid reaction, which is this royal decree. All the autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, unanimously, agreed on a few issues that moved to this royal decree. One, not less, is the availability of funds, not only with the allocation of 9.5 million, which in a delayed manner remained to be distributed in order to prevent and assist victims of sexual violence, but also of the 200 million corresponding to the budget year. We were concerned that, at the time of the year in which the 200 million corresponding to the annuality of 2018 were put into effective circulation, the municipalities and the corresponding councils responsible for these policies had difficulties in implementing them. Our concern, the concern of the Government was such that this year's funds were effectively spent on the policies envisaged and agreed upon in the pact, that we requested the Ministry of Finance, obviously within budgetary legality, an exception provided for in the expenditure rule so that funds that did not give time to implement on 31 December, which is normal in the traceability of budget implementation, could be reserved and preserved for implementation also the following year. We made a further effort to understand the importance of the budget that we were going to begin to dispose of to work that we even warned the municipalities of the possibility of applying this expenditure to chapter 1, so that in some municipalities we could hire specialized personnel, which is a very useful tool to prevent, and of which the municipalities have little, particularly those that are not large. Of these two issues we had also pre-emptively worried before the sectoral conference, in a deep responsibility that we felt to know that going late, almost a year later, we had to go fast, we had to do it in a loyal, coordinated, but above all efficient way. And we also made, before bringing this House and before the Council of Ministers the royal decree, a diagnosis that was also realistic of the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, from the macro-survey, from the last one we have on violence, and from the data we have every day, we know two very worrying things: one, which more than 70% of the women who are finally killed by sexist violence had not denounced. This puts us at a higher level of concern; it places us at a level of concern such that we must make a great deal of effort in the general environment of the society to which we belong, and to which we serve the public offices, so that women can receive a unanimous and strong message, solidarity and assurance that they can and must emerge from that situation in which they find themselves, because they do not denounce, and they do not do so not only because of the difficulty of the situation in which they live, but because society has to give an even clearer answer that it is necessary to do so, because at the end of its decision we are all waiting for them to help them. With this data, we felt that an important formula of preventive work was to help the municipalities recover lost competences in terms of policies of equality and prevention of violence, amending the Law of Local Regime Bases in this royal decree so that the municipalities could have the political instrument and also the economic funds that were coming to them just so that many of these women would go to the municipalities, probably before a police station, to start the way in which each of them does an effort to get out of their own situation. We wanted, want and will continue to strive and expand this line of work because with this diagnosis of women who do not report, and to whom we therefore fail to protect, we had to open a space where the municipalities became safe places for them, that all the municipalities, with the social services at their disposal, would become places of listening, response and asylum to their very serious problem, of them and also of their children and their daughters. For this reason, we announced at the sectoral conference that in the next year's budgets the budget allocated to the availability of municipalities will be doubled. We felt few resources of only 20 million for the municipalities, we will double them, because we believe that there is a better way for preventive policy, which is on which we must make great efforts not to reach the end of the tragedy, when it no longer has any solution. Secondly, it seemed to us, also with the data we had from the macrosurvey, that there was another particularly vulnerable space: minors. The superior value of minors is above all else, so much above all that, since 2014 our State is committed as a signatory to the Istanbul Convention, its article 18 obliges us to make changes to our domestic legislation, the better, because we are not yet a guarantor State towards which this guarantee is maximum in relation to the protection of minors. The data gave rise to the following circumstances, ladies and gentlemen. Nearly 64 per cent of children are in situations of violence, live violence, receive violence and grow up in a situation where violence is present. Moreover, 93.7% are smaller, i.e. they are in no condition to clearly identify what is happening, and they are not in a position to know how to react. We condemn them to make a life-threatening resume. It seemed to us that with these two data we also had to focus on the urgent measures of this royal decree that I bring today to the consideration and approval of your ladies and gentlemen, with a second measure that would also be effective in this protection to which we are bound by the Istanbul Pact and the Istanbul Convention. The measure was to better protect aid in that part of the age group subjected to violence. This is why the Royal Decree provides for an amendment to the Civil Code, in its article 156. The Civil Code, for the most part - it is a very extensive law, substantively speaking - is an ordinary law. The Government is bringing an amendment to an ordinary law, which means in legal terms that it brings it in an impolite manner with regard to the constitutionality of the Government's decision, because what we amend exactly in that article is the possibility that minors can be treated psychologically with specialized care, with the permission of only one of their parents. Fundamental rights are not at all affected and the possibility remains completely intact that the parent who does not make the decision should not only be informed but also be able to disagree and appeal literally in the defence of justice. In this way we can protect boys and girls who reach the age of majority who have not been helped in any way; even at times one of their parents, in a case - with or without a sentence - for the benefit of their defence, puts at risk the psychological situation of their own son or daughter. This is called the superior value of the protection of minors in a legal order and in a healthy society, not only in a democratic society with our obligations under a rule of law, but a healthy society capable of protecting children in a key of deep responsibility, and I am not referring to the solidarity that involves arming all of us to protect them. Finally, this royal decree - which, I repeat, is born out of the consensus of the Covenant against Violence and what it is about in technical terms is to literally transfer some of the more than two hundred measures of this covenant to the royal decree for validation - also amends Law 1/2004 in its non-organic part. Your ladies and gentlemen know - I do not need to say this - that with the real decrees-laws one can legislate in those areas in which the Constitution does not affect them: fundamental rights, State institutions, the situation / institutional condition of the autonomous communities and the electoral regime. In all other respects the government can legislate this way because obviously the control of the House takes place afterwards. We wanted to amend some aspects of Law 1/2004 that were particularly weak to us, particularly in need of a response, especially when this State, its lordships and the Government had an obligation to do so. It is a matter of better and more rapid and effective care for the victims of violence, not only for women but also for minors, and there may be a rapid priority order in legal aid, and the characterization can take place at any time of the procedure and through a very important element - which we are bound by the Istanbul Convention - which is the accreditation and consideration of victims of women and their children for purely administrative purposes so that they can access the assistance provided for in the social policies of this country - certainly not only those provided for in the scope of the action of the Government of the nation but also in the autonomous communities and in the local administrations, the municipalities and the deputies - for the purposes of labour rights and also for the purposes of social security benefits. What we seek is that we do not have to wait at the time of the judgment - as requested by the Istanbul Convention - for them to be protected. But let me say more, an important part of this amendment to Law 1/2004 is already being made. There are autonomous communities that have gone ahead of the pact and have already done so, such as Galicia, Castile and León, but so does the General Administration of the State. Women civil servants in the State are protected in purely administrative terms when they are victims of violence, for example when it comes to the transfer of their public office. That is to say, at this point the royal decree does not bring anything new that is not already being done by other administrations - certainly with good judgment - to advance the protection of women at any time. In no way are fundamental rights affected, let alone the jurisdictional capacity of judges and our courts, but we have transferred two concrete measures from the pact, also from the recommendation of the Senate report, and of course an important requirement of the Istanbul Convention. On this diagnosis, on these rapid decisions for the sake of consensus and with the unanimous agreement of the sectoral conference, in which all the autonomous communities felt not only concerned but - and I have to say this politically gratefully - coordinated and to some extent also grateful for the speed with which we could put the funds into circulation and these first measures, we must continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree - I ask you - must be validated by this House and must be validated because the message that we must bring to our country today is that in this there are no partisan discrepancies, that we must all go to one against macho violence; that in this there can be nuances of work, but never discrepancies of effort; that in this we must continue to walk and contribute everyone, improving and, of course, moving forward. For this reason we want it to be treated, once passed, as a bill, because we understand that this is a path in which we can only set constant and partial goals. It was said by your ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on Labour that it fortunately gave Spanish policy the instrument of this pact which is in force and which has a year of life; it was said by your ladies and gentlemen in many long working sessions, that this was to begin and that, from here on, we all felt concerned to continue, increasingly better, with more and more proposals that would allow us to fine-tune. Ladies and gentlemen, here's only the deal, only the loyalty. From this government you will find nothing but this. Moreover, in my appearance on 10 July at the Equality Commission and on 30 August at the Pact Follow-up Commission, I said so, and I will continue to say so. In this position you must not find your lordships a single movement on my part, nor a single one. This pact requires constant improvements and reinforcements; this pact was the product of something that one day taught me who presided over our high court, the Constitutional Court, when he told me that a good pact was one from which everyone came out half sad and half happy; half sad because everything they wanted was not accepted, but half happy because we had all yielded to something that far exceeded the party's position. Surely in these times that run for all of us at the service of our country there are few issues on which we can do nothing but help. This is one. On behalf of the Government, I ask you to support this royal decree, beyond the interest of the Government itself and the legitimate and diverse position of its lordships on behalf of the citizens and of each of the parliamentary groups. We will treat it as a bill so that it can be enriched, but I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we can only get out of here today by telling society as a whole and the women who can get out of that tragedy, that politics is at your service, that the effectiveness of public administrations is at your service and that we are at your service too. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke on the agenda of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, this is a country problem, this is an urgent problem and not what is distracting us in recent months between mummies, ties, resumes, etc. This is a country problem. Coalition Canaria signed the pact and didn't do it to get a picture, so this MP was decisive in the state budgets along with Ángeles Álvarez for the budget to have the file of the Pact against Gender Violence. From Coalition Canaria we believe that it is essential that the participation and recovery of municipal competences of lobbyists and deputies is regulated. We believe it is essential that there should be no prior complaint for the declaration because we all know what the reality of women is when they denounce it, and I must also say to all Members that the compatibility of compensation and action on children is always being applied in the Canary Islands. We had no problem with validation, although we believe that contributions can be made. There are urgent issues such as exemption from taxes and taxes on the issue of inheritance for child victims of violence. There must also be a pact at the national level on the issue of housing and on the immediate guardianship of grandparents, for health purposes, of schools, etc. I want to tell you something that I have never said before and that is that today I have shared your speech from the beginning to the end. In this we have to add, in this there can be no political battles because it is a tear that breaks our soul every day with every news. It is essential that these children do not have to be on the basis of the legal procedures and wits of abusive parents until things happen. Every day we're late, we'll have a piece of blame, so I'm very pleased to say that we're going to support it with determination and we're going to continue working to get the rest of the pending measures addressed as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u42	Thank you, Vice President first. Deputies, deputies, very good morning; members of the Executive present, Vice-President. Of course, the Navarro People's Union will vote in favour of this validation of the Royal Decree-Law in the fight against violence against women. I'd miss more! Count on us. It is no coincidence, Madam Vice-President, it is no coincidence, because among the first communities in Spain to fight in the legislative sphere was the Foral Community of Navarre. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the Navarro People's Union was at the forefront in leading and seeking the unanimity of all political forces both in Law 5/2001 and in the subsequent Foral Law 14/2015 and I always insist on that unanimity. I also share with you, Madam Vice-President, that there must be no flags here, here there must be that unanimity of all political forces against this scourge. Let us win this battle, win it and open other battles such as - and with this, Mr Vice-President, first - the battle against the suicide we have today in Spain, which causes ten deaths every day. Let us also win the battle against the suffering of people. Therefore, on social issues and on issues of support against violence against women will always have the support of the Navarro People's Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Vice-President, Compromís is going to vote yes because for us, for us, macho violence is a priority, we demonstrate it in the Valencian government and we demonstrate it here too and we will act responsibly in this regard. This pact, as you have said, was born of dialogue, of infinite concessions by all the political parties that form the Commission and of consensus; of consensus in capital letters. That has made this the only pact of the hundreds that we seemed to be making in this legislature, a pact that we have just starred in women, and the truth is that we can be proud because we have understood that politics serves to improve people's lives. Through dialogue and with great patience we are able to achieve this pact and all our companions know it. But this royal decree has not come with that same consensus, and I ask you here to apply that dialogue and that consensus too when you want to bring action to this House. Apply it to your Government and rule with us, with the same ones we did and with all the women who are in this House and we want to end the macho violence. Understand this constructive criticism as a hand extended to consensus, as a hand extended to dialogue, because we have the opportunity and the obligation that this pact of state goes beyond a legislature. Having said all this, all I have to say is that today, Compromís will vote in favour, thinking of all the women, in all of them, of the hundreds of murders that appear in the statistics, but also of the hundreds of murders that do not count because they were not couples of; also of all the survivors, of the thousands of survivors who manage to get out of all this every day, but also of all the women that we feel alone, that we feel unprotected, that we feel even guilty when we are insulted or assaulted. For all of us, we will vote a strong yes to this royal decree. And I reiterate to you our extended hand so that this pact of state is the principle of feminist transformation in this state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before entering into this matter I would like to inform Mrs Spain Reina that Barcelona airport has achieved a record of passengers in the last eight months and that Girona airport has increased its activity by 8%. I am saying this because perhaps the problem of Malaga airport is not motivated by the issue it has raised. I would like to tell the Minister that we have assisted in the elaboration of a state pact against violence which is a necessary document, which has been preserved - because we are dealing with the nationalist forces - the powers of the autonomous communities and, therefore, will have the support of the PDECAT in this royal decree. It can't be any other way. However, you have commented that there was an important budget allocation to carry out these measures, this state pact. And it is true, the endowment exists; however, you know that at the sectoral conference the quantities were fixed but not the criterion of distribution. It is in the interest of the various governments that the criterion of distribution be set because, although some information has been sought from the ministry, it has not been achieved and therefore it has not been able to respond to what these criteria were set for the delegation in Catalonia. Madam Minister, we would like the measures laid down by this royal decree to begin to develop them. We welcome the fact that it is being treated as a draft law because it is going to be a positive norm and, as the previous Member said, it will be a good framework for continuing to find consensus in this area, which does not understand partisanism and does not understand a specific action aimed at eradicating this scourge. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Today, we have to validate a decree of measures against gender-based violence brought to us by the Government on the basis of the agreements we adopted a year ago in the State Pact against Gender-based Violence, following the work that was done and that resulted in that pact. Evidently, the fight against gender-based violence has some legal background in this State: Law 27/2003 and then Organic Law 1/2004. The Spanish State subsequently joined the signing of the Istanbul Convention and, as a result of all this and given the need, urgency and dramatic situation of many women, the subcommittee was established. After a long work, to meet all the demands of all those who appeared and explained their vision, a document was made that is what we approved, not unanimously, but was approved. The measures proposed there were of a different nature and, as the minister has explained, some required legislative changes which are the ones that are mainly brought about today. Undoubtedly, someone has said, the great sociological leap that has taken place with gender-based violence is that it has gone from being a private problem, a family problem, to being a social problem, a problem that must be addressed socially because it affects everyone, the people who suffer from it, without a doubt, the families, the environments, but it is also the political action and the obligation that we all have to deal with this situation. Therefore, this qualitative leap automatically generates answers that must be public, not private answers. With regard to the decree, in accordance with the principles of necessity, effectiveness, proportionality, legal certainty, transparency and efficiency, and perhaps because the principle of parliamentary debate is also so important that even if it does not appear as such I believe it is, or that of decorum, to say the least, in some cases the effectiveness must have its limits, as is the case with the amendment of article 156 of the Civil Code. Of course it is constitutional and lawful, no doubt, and you have said so, but the parliamentary decorum surely demands that it be dealt with not by a decree but as a bill, and we welcome the correction you have made on this subject. No doubt - I will repeat - they are being amended to give greater guarantees to articles 20 and 23 of the law and we agree to amend these two issues. They are measures set out in the pact and must be developed. If it is treated as a draft law, we cannot forget that the trunk part of all this is the status of the victim, which in the end gives all the victims, although certain victims because of their specificity require other complementary measures that make that specificity considered also in the legislation. With regard to article 23, the amendment introduced by the Royal Decree-Law broadens the way of proving that he is a victim of violence, since Organic Law 1/2004 provided for recognition always within the judicial sphere, i.e. by judicial order. The amendment introduces, in addition to the judicial decisions, the report of the prosecutor's office already on a regular basis and not as an exception, extending the accreditation also to administrative decisions such as the reports of social services or reception services for victims or any title provided for in the sectoral regulations on access to resources and rights. The amendment adds a precept of coordination by agreement of the Sectoral Conference on Equality where the procedures for regulating accreditation files will be designed. We see, therefore, that this amendment facilitates the accreditation of victim status by making it more accessible to accredit it and, therefore, by avoiding any obstacles that could aggravate the situation that these victims already have. This is certainly in line with the broad notion of victim employed in the European context. The accreditation of victim status is also provided in other sectors and regulations, such as those of victims of terrorism. There is another point that is important - and I have little time left - which is that of returning competences to the municipalities. We certainly support him. The amendment submitted by the Basque Nationalist Party to the bill on rationalization and sustainability of the local government, which was introduced, was precisely for that purpose. Our amendments respected the competences - in the case of Basques, outsiders - of the Basque institutions, as well as of the interlocutors that the municipalities and parliaments had to preserve precisely that character of the local administration in order to be able to develop policies that could affect them. We in Euskadi have continued to make policies of equality from the municipalities, but also from the parliaments and also from the Government, because we believe that the institutional network of each autonomous community - or of each country, in our case - must organize it internally, and it is the one that knows the most about its network, how to achieve those objectives that we maintain in common, but that they do not have to be directed from the municipalities, regardless of the Government. Therefore, in the subcommission we put a caveat that only said: respect the competences of the autonomous communities, respect the uniqueness of organizing each one internally how they want to do things. I think that is important because what is worth is the objective, that is to achieve those measures that are proposed in the subcommittee and that then each one can develop them as the best opportune view. The way in which we organize ourselves in an institutional manner with efficiency and coordination, I believe, is the fundamental basis for achieving the objectives. We believe in multi-level work between municipalities, parliaments and government, in networking, which is what we have been implementing in Euskadi since 2005, which is when the Basque Country Equality Act was passed, which includes a specific chapter to address gender-based violence against women. Because the more we work on building a more egalitarian society, the less space there will be for violence against women and its multiple manifestations. There are other changes that have already manifested themselves and I will not affect them. It's over, Mr. President. Gender-based violence is one of the greatest atrocities committed in society, because it is violence that is exercised from hatred, superiority, by denying and disposing of dignity to the person who is harmed, a harm that goes far beyond the physical. But it is reparable, not the past but the future; it is open to all women who have suffered this calvary. It is a future in which we all have a responsibility not only to eradicate it but also to equip ourselves with the tools necessary for it to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago we showed our strong support for the impetus of all those measures and mechanisms aimed at ending the violence of the macho. You passed and presented last August a royal decree-law introducing new measures for the protection of minors, facilitating access to justice and seeking to give new powers to the municipalities on this matter. However, this ambitious royal decree-law amends not only one, but three laws: the Local Regime Bases Act, the Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence Act and the Spanish Civil Code. From Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya we announce that we will never oppose any improvement in the guarantees of women's rights. However, we will not do it at any price. With this royal decree-law the Government wishes, once again, to restrict the scope of action of the autonomous communities through an amendment of the Local Regime Bases Act. Until now, the Spanish State had transferred the resources to the Generalitat, which subsequently distributed them efficiently and consistently among the Catalan municipalities. With the validation of this royal decree-law, the central government, which does not know the reality of the territory at the local level, wants to skip this step and directly transfer resources between the municipal consistories. From Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya we recall that the report of the study paper for the elaboration of strategies against gender violence, approved by the Senate Equality Commission in July 2017, stipulated that all transfers will be carried out with scrupulous compliance with the competences transferred to the autonomous communities. The solution is not to refocus skills, but to improve the current system of autonomous financing. This is, in our case, to narrow the gap between the income provided by Catalonia to the Spanish State and the resources allocated by the Central Government to Catalonia so that the Generalitat can exercise its powers fully and sovereignly. As you know, the Republican Left of Catalonia is a party firmly committed to the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of local autonomy. However, in analyzing this royal decree-law we find a small problem: we cannot share homogeneity with you. If you have read the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, you will remember that throughout the text you see the idea that all municipal entities are part of Catalonia and that they are all also the Generalitat of Catalonia. In this sense, we did not conceive of the development of any public policy on equality without the Government of Catalonia. The relationship between the Government of the Generalitat and local authorities cannot be denied. In summary, the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures for the Development of the State Pact against Gender Violence presents a number of errors that can be remedied through parliamentary processing as a bill, so as to ensure debate among all parliamentary groups. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree-law if processing is guaranteed as a bill. Otherwise, if they fail to comply with the State Pact against Gender Violence with regard to respect for autonomous competences, we will be obliged to abstain. Finally, I do not want to end my speech without reminding you that we already have an equality law in Catalonia, which envisages major measures to eradicate male-female violence and guarantees equality between men and women, but that, like other Catalan laws, they are blocked or have been cut by the Constitutional Court. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u52	Thank you, President. Vice-President, two weeks ago in his appearance at the Pact Follow-up Committee, we had to regret the murder of two women, and this week again the same thing. This doesn't stop. Two women in just 24 hours: Estela, in Madrid, and Jessica, in Asturias, and together with them three more victims, three innocent children who have been orphaned. From here we express our most absolute condemnation and our firm commitment to the fight against this macho violence. Ladies and gentlemen, almost a year ago a state pact came out of this Parliament, which we approved by all political forces, except Podemos; a pact that includes 214 measures, all of which are important. Among these measures was the establishment of a follow-up committee in this House to monitor compliance with that pact, but, ladies and gentlemen, you started badly; the Socialist Party and the People's Party were discussing for several months who would chair that committee, more concerned about the chair than about its launch. It was so long since my group, Citizens, had to present two writings addressed to the Bureau so that it could be set up at once. Until 18 April, the Commission was not set up, from September to April, for a long time, and unfortunately it did not do much good either. We demanded that the People's Party comply with and implement the measures, but it acted as always, with the desire to which we are accustomed. Motion of censure. You arrived, Mrs Calvo, Mr Sánchez, and you were bound to pass decrees - that's your name - in August and as churros. Among those decrees was the one we now deal with here, which has caused a tremendous stir. Associations of judges, jurists of prestige, all of them have been warning since August of the possible unconstitutionality of this royal decree. On the other hand, you continue to talk about the virtues of the figure of the royal decree, you continue to say that you have used it in a constitutionally impeccable way - in the words of Mrs Calvo - which there are serious doubts, although the legal debate leaves it for another time. In the Follow-up Commission myself I asked him not once but six times to transform this royal decree into a draft law, processed by urgency, that is. Today they rectify, once again, and they do what Citizens asked, and we celebrate it, although it seems to be due to another reason, not because we ask. They do it because they didn't have the votes of their compañeros of independence. Anyway, we are happy, for the democratic health of our country, so in danger with so much toe, decree, interference in the judiciary, universities, the media, etc. You have broken the spirit of consensus that we must maintain on such a delicate issue, and you have skipped it by presenting this decree without first going through the follow-up committee, trying to mock the debate in this Parliament. Moreover, they have put into it points that were not included as such in the state pact, which has not mentioned that. Therefore, Minister of Equality, understand that we no longer leave. Yesterday El Confidencial published that the Monton case and its gender master seems to have much more crumble. According to the report, the former minister would have benefited from an alleged treatment of favor for teachers who, in turn, apparently received public funds directly from the State Secretariat for Equality of the Socialist Party. Many women are really outraged to read things like this. You are staining the name of feminism, of equality, and then you allow yourself to teach us lessons here to all by telling us what we have to do, how we should think, how we should talk, trying to impose from your incoherent dogmas that deny women's freedom. [[Applauds]] Well, do you know what I'm saying to that? That there is nothing more heteropatriarchal than what you do. [[Applauds]] Understand, Mrs. Calvo, that, for things like this, we have certain doubts. It's our obligation to have them. They have a pact in their hands that involves annual financing of 200 million euros, which has cost us a lot to rip off the People's Party. I would also like to remind you that the citizens' particular vote was not approved, which made it mandatory to publish reports with indicators and objectives achieved. And you also understand that we are asking ourselves a number of questions. Why are the measures included in this decree urgent? Why are you and not others of those 214? Basically, what you do in this decree is, on the one hand, to return the competences of equality to the municipalities and, on the other hand, to grant authority to the social services of the same to issue a title that believes that a woman is a victim of macho violence. This, by the way, I repeat again, was not so reflected in the covenant. As for the first, the return of these competences, I will tell you that it is important, but do you know what is basic? Detection. 76% of women - you said - do not complain. And do you know where it is most easily detected if a woman suffers from violence or not? In health care, in primary care, it is something that has made it very clear to all the experts who went through the subcommission and not a single measure has yet been put in place, nor specific protocols, nor staff training, nor sharing the clinical history among different autonomous communities. Moreover, the Socialist Party voted against the single health card proposed by Citizens, which has a lot to do with this problem, because these women often change residences precisely to hide that violence. The history needs to be shared. Women who suffer it and do not report it will also not go to the social services mass with this measure, instead they will go to the doctor with injuries or certain symptoms that are a consequence of the ill-treatment they suffer. And, on the other hand, what professionals are the right ones to issue these reports, these credentials? Ladies and gentlemen, there are magnificent professionals in the social services of the municipalities, which I find at first hand, but we are concerned about how the royal decree has been drafted, because it gives rise to enormous legal uncertainty. Which social services professionals will have the authority to certify this? How will that report be made? Where can it be used? They've left everything untied, and this is too risky. We all - I believe - have in mind the case of Juana Rivas, a victim of macho violence who, for alleged misadvice from a municipal center, has had to suffer the terrible consequence of not being able to see her children. We need to speak so clearly if we don't want the victims to suffer even more. I could go on for a while, talk also about victims of sexual violence, who will continue to be tried in non-specialized courts; I could say that we have not yet complied with the Istanbul Convention, for example, but I have no time left. We will vote in favour but we will make amendments to the bill and we hope that they will be dealt with as urgently as possible so that the measures can be implemented as soon as possible, because of course, as has been said here, this is very urgent. I conclude by asking the heads of the Ministry of Equality to come to the Follow-up Committee and explain to us in detail what the work plan will be for the implementation of these measures. Do not forget at any time that, although you have the responsibility to implement this pact of state, it is a pact of state between the different powers and civil society and before them you will have to give account. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u54	Thank you, President. Vice President, in favor, of course. Because if we said in his day that the state pact was insufficient, we will not now support the implementation of each of the 214 measures. Of course, it is necessary to do this and the same sentence that you said this morning and that you also said in your appearance at the end of August, that of 'let's go late', that phrase is not that the street is saying it too, it is that the street is living it. The women of this country are living that 'let's be late'. Two days ago my colleague Chema mentioned that in a few hours we had heard of three Machist murders in A Carida, Villaverde and Borriol. Since this House passed the pact barely a year ago, we have counted eighty-five Machist murders. No, violence against women has not stopped, we're late - and we're late - and we can't wait another second. For this reason, our group is going to validate the actual decree that the Government is bringing in today, that it will be operational now, but also that it is with a bill that we can discuss, Madam Vice-President, because without talking to the deputies that we work on the subcommittee of the pact, what the Government has - which is what the citizenry has - is a report with more or less specific measures, but the Government has to be aware that it also has the possibility of interacting with the deputies who drafted it, with whom we have been drafting it, and believe me that it is necessary. It is necessary - we see - because of these 214 measures that bring us this: to return the competences to the local administrations in the field of gender violence and the promotion of equality between men and women, to activate the budgetary funds for the pact, the enabling title of victim and to ensure that minors witnesses and victims of male violence can receive psychological care without requiring it to be a common decision of the two parents when one of them - we also understand in what we are dealing with that we are talking about the father - is in a criminal process. What is the priority of these measures? Of course, it is that, in the face of a pact that is clearly insufficient, I do not know what measure it is not. We have been saying for over a year that we must go further and, of course, the return of competences to local administrations is essential. In fact, my group tabled a bill in this regard on 25 November. Of course we're late. And for them it is necessary to allocate the budgetary funds of the pact, the 120 million euros -100 and 20- for autonomous communities and municipalities, and over the remaining 80 million, those of General Administration of the State, know well our complaint, because, let us be consistent, if when we saw the General Budgets of the State that 80 million euros for the General Administration were not, suddenly neither have appeared by magic. Therefore, it is better to make consistent and honest statements and demonstrations than beautiful triumphalist discourses that confuse citizens. What happens to us with the priorities we see in this royal decree is that, beyond what is purely operational for the implementation of the whole pact, there is an approach that is profoundly limiting. Do you remember what was the greatest consensus in the state pact? Does this House remember what we all agreed on in the work we did? When it was time to adapt our legislation and public policies to the Istanbul Convention, to expand the idea of gender-based violence, macho violence beyond the realm of the partner or ex-partner. And this paradigm this royal decree does not capture. This royal decree remains in 2004. With this royal decree we continue in 2004, and - I think you know this - my parliamentary group is very much in favour of Law 1/2004; a pioneering law to be proud of, which fourteen years later requires work, of course, but which at the time we were very proud of and which we hoped would be fulfilled, because then there would be many measures of the state pact that they would not even have to be. Of course, everything would be much better for women in this country. But our society has gone beyond that framework. We know that macho violence not only occurs in relationships of partner or ex-partner. What is the sentimental relationship between the five attackers of the sanfermins and the victim? What sentimental relationship exists between any of the women in this House, for example, and those who promote and spread symbolic violence? I'm still asking questions that are rhetorical. When a woman suffers economic violence, does she necessarily have to mediate a relationship? When a woman suffers institutional violence, does this happen in the context of the partner or ex-partner? The answer we have on the street, and these questions do not cease to be a rhetorical exercise precisely to visualize that, for this royal decree, with these measures, we continue in 2004. Our society has gone beyond that for a long time. For a long time 'lives we want' does not mean talking about toxic relations; it means being aware that society is grounded in power relations, that this problem is called patriarchy, that it crosses the whole population, that if we have to say that we want to live, it is because our citizenship is not yet full-fledged, because our lives are not being free. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, not only are we not in 2004 - which is an obvious issue - but we are also in 2018-M, in the year in which no one can already obviate that feminism is the tool, the engine and the compass of social transformation to achieve a certain democracy, not a white, heterosexual, cisgenerous, western and class-accommodated paripé; a democracy that truly serves us all. After a courageous and determined 8-M, that we have been very close to a real general strike, because it stopped, because women stopped all the employment - paid employment and all the work without which, when it is not done, it is for the world, but which is invisible and unremunerated - after an 8-M so courageous, that the women and men who support us in this struggle would go out to the streets for the struggle of all, for pensions, for our sexual freedom, for our right to decide on our own bodies, for the lives of all, after that we cannot continue to legislate as if we lived in 2004. We're going late, you said, Vice President; but from which we're going, we're going forward and we're going with women, and that's about listening to what women are saying now. For our part, the Confederal Group is not willing to waste a minute more because we are living on it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cuello Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u56	Thank you, President; thank you, Vice-President. During the time that the debate on this Royal Decree-Law on urgent measures for the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence will last, about ten women in Spain will have called to the 016 service to ask for help, another twenty women will go to a police station to denounce their abuser and so every hour that passes. It is essential to bear in mind all these women, their daughters and children, and also those women who have not yet taken any step away from their abuser and the environment of violence in which they live; and, of course, the memory here today of the women who have been murdered in our country: 957 since 2003 and 33 in what we have been doing this year, which are the most serious and most painful consequence. [[Applauds]] They are also evidence that the State and the entire democratic system have failed because they have been unable to guarantee the right to security, freedom and life. To reverse this situation we are called all and all, every public administration, every means of communication, every civil organization, every institution. The whole of society has a role to play in the face of this violence which limits, which attacks, which constrains but, above all, ladies and gentlemen, which kills. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context it is gratifying to see that the Spanish Government assumes its responsibility: to address gender-based violence as a matter of State, by promoting the public policies that the fight against macho violence demands. This royal decree implements measures that are the result of the consensus and political debate that we have maintained by all parties and that are part of the State Pact against Gender Violence. These measures were also adopted at the sectoral conference held on 31 July and the criteria for allocating the funds were also adopted there, Mrs Ciuró. This royal decree gives back to the municipalities the powers of equality to become the gateway to a path towards women's freedom and security. Because, ladies and gentlemen, do you know where women go when they are desperate, when they are afraid, when they have no economic independence and do not know how to get out of this situation? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen? For I am going to tell you: they go to the city halls and do not understand competences or administrative structures, they understand despair, fear and ask for help with shouts, but silent screams so that their abuser does not listen to them because they fear for their lives and also for the lives of their sons and daughters. [[Applauds]] In view of this reality, it does not seem logical that these powers should be removed from the municipalities. Whoever took this decision to remove those powers from the local administration did so out of irresponsibility, because I doubt it was because of a lack of knowledge of that reality, Mr Montoro - even if he is not -. Fortunately, this Government has in mind the central role played in this area by the municipalities, the Government's commitment to municipalism and to gender-based violence, which is being demonstrated by facts, such as the decision to double the budget for next year for municipal resources against male-based violence. Similarly, this royal decree contains the accreditation of situations of gender-based violence and is extended beyond the sentence or judicial decision, as indicated in the Istanbul Convention and the State Pact, this accreditation of victims for the recognition exclusively of labour rights and social security benefits. When from the administrations we say: denounce, call, ask for help, we have to be aware that women are being asked for giant steps. [[The lady]] We know that they can do so - there are many surviving women - but they also need our help because they have to start and move on a path that is not simple and we have to facilitate it and accompany these women in this process that is urgent, necessary and, above all, essential. Therefore, women must be encouraged to take that giant step from the administration. Administrations must also have the resources and agility to assist them, to accompany them on the hard road they begin to travel. This in public policy is called in a very simple way: budget allocation, which is what this government is doing, and political action. So the pact has the courage to have agreed with the political parties, but it is of no use if it does not transform women's lives, if we do not set it in motion decisively and urgently. The protection of minors is a fundamental pillar. This royal decree includes an addition that allows for psychological care with the consent of the victim for minors in situations of serious risk without having the express consent of the aggressor, who may come to the judge in case of disagreement, because article 156 is not amended, but a clarification paragraph is introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can profile themselves in the fight against gender-based violence. This issue requires union and is above any political interest. Here the only interest must be to put an end to this macho scourge, and the fight against machoism is a collective task of a country. It is not possible to understand it without women's organizations, without civil society, nor would it be possible to understand the fight against this macho terrorism with the absence of any political party. We therefore call for the spirit of the consensus of the pact to continue at this stage of the implementation of the pact. The processing of this royal decree as a law allows valuable participation in this phase of implementation of the pact of all political groups, and it is necessary to take advantage of this golden opportunity. In addition, the Government has engaged in dialogue and negotiation and wishes to continue to count on the contributions of all political forces during the process of the draft law of this royal decree. Diligence and dialogue are signs of the identity of this Government and are undoubtedly the essential tools for moving towards a better society. Against gender-based violence they will always find the PSOE firm, loyal to the pacts, creating agreements and promoting consensus that make the fight against machismo a country's goal. Thanks to all political parties, to all parliamentary groups, for the willingness to reach an agreement on this royal decree. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u57	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group to explain our position on the actual decree of urgent measures against gender-based violence adopted by the Government on 3 August. We will vote yes to this royal decree-law because it is the first legislative fruit of the State Pact against Gender Violence that was agreed in this House last year. We are going to vote yes to this royal decree-law because we are aware of the effort involved in reaching this agreement through the will of the various parliamentary groups. We will vote yes to this royal decree-law because we are a party that has a word and is aware of the value of that given word. We will vote yes to this royal decree-law because we firmly believe that gender-based violence will not disappear unless we maintain our unity in its total rejection and contempt. And finally, we will vote yes because the Socialist Government has rectified its initial intention and the Royal Decree-Law will be treated as a bill, which will allow us to modify those proposals with which we do not agree. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is taking place when, unfortunately, we again suffer from the clashes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u59	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u60	... of this mechanism which seeks to maintain in submission and inequality to women, as has happened for so many centuries. The most recent cases of Asturias, with two children aged five and seven orphaned, and Villaverde in Madrid, joined to Alicante last Friday, add three tragic names to the unbearable list of victims. We are sick of unreasonably truncated lives, of children who will have to face the future without their mothers and assuming that this absence of their mothers is due to the extreme violence of their parents, who will also spend a number of years in prison, children who will have to be educated and raised, hopefully, by other relatives. We want to be able to move on to all that, allowing the victims their recovery and giving them back the right to a better life, which has been usurped. Three have been the points of the royal decree-law that have caused greater concern and controversy in the last month of August after the hasty publication, also unjustified, of the royal decree-law in the Official Gazette of the State, to the point that not a few voices have been raised that have warned of the possible unconstitutionality of the text, despite, Madam Vice-President, that you have just made a lot of comforting argument in the opposite direction. One, dealing with matters vetoed by the Spanish Constitution to be the subject of a royal decree-law, since it affects the rights, duties and freedoms of citizens, regulated in Title I of the Constitution. Two, the enabling title to accredit the status of victim, which goes from being issued exclusively from the judicial sphere to being issued by an administrative decision. And three, the reform of the Local Regulatory Law on Local Regime Bases, to return equality competences to local entities. Since these entities are basic institutions of the State, this reform cannot be done either by royal decree-law. In particular, the controversy has focused on the amendment of article 156 of the Civil Code, on parental authority, to allow the parent who is the victim of gender-based violence to decide to provide psychological assistance to the child - also the victim - through the Child Protection Act, adopted in 2015 by the Government of the People's Party, without the consent of the other parent, who is alleged to be an abuser. Madam Vice-President, it is a very serious anomaly to attempt to amend the Civil Code by means of a royal decree-law; it has only been done once, in 1928, and of course never since the adoption of the 1978 Constitution. We know that they brought the royal decree-law to the Council of Ministers, despite the repair made by the Ministry of Justice. We believe that this issue can only be resolved by urging the judge to decide on psychological care as a precautionary measure in criminal proceedings, taking into account the best interests of the child and of course without depriving the father against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated of the parental authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Government has fallen out of the way. After the accidental but triumphant arrival in the Government last June, they have realized that the road is plagued with nonsense and defeats, despite all the strength and determination that reflect both the hands and glasses of its president. In the course of the hundred days some minister, some minister, some director general... have been left behind, for truly amazing and some particularly dangerous issues, and today neither this royal decree-law nor the royal decree-law of Franco's exhumation are going to save them from what awaits the president of the government with the revelations of the press about his doctoral thesis. [[Rumors.-The Vice-President, Navarro Garzón, takes the Chair]] The illusions of a carpeted path of red roses waiting in Congress have already faded forever with the help of their foolishness and disparate group of partners. In this royal decree-law the haste has disrupted what could have been a better and more effective job. They have raised the suspicion of unconstitutionality over the precepts included in the text. Fortunately, the arithmetic of Congress and the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group oblige the Government to accept the requirements of the parliamentary groups to transform this text during its processing as a bill. We will therefore be able to change what seems to us to be incorrect or ambiguous, even unconstitutional, and improve the text so that it correctly reflects the proposals agreed upon by all groups within the State Pact, some proposals drawn in turn from the appearances of more than sixty experts. That is why, Madam Vice-President, one last request from the People's Parliamentary Group. The non-legislative proposal adopted in November 2016 and which led to the establishment of a subcommission for the elaboration of the state pact requires that legal texts drawn up on the basis of the decisions taken be referred to the General Courts for processing. It expressly states this, that is, the proposal provides for them to be dealt with as draft laws and not as royal decrees-laws. We therefore need parliamentary work, we need rigour, we need consensus. That work and agreement that can give us the strength to end, once and for all, this intolerable violence that fills us with pain and indignation. Let's start with this royal decree-law that has to be processed, yes or yes and for the sake of consensus, as a bill. That is the only way you will have the support of the House's majority group, the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs González Vázquez. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u62	Thank you, President. Let us go ahead with the Government's thanks for the favourable position of the honourable Members on behalf of their parliamentary groups on the validation of this royal decree, precisely for that gratitude that I want to materialize here without reopening the debate by answering some questions, above all, because I believe that they can be useful for the work that we must continue to face among all of us in this House. I am not going to mix anything other than the object of this royal decree on a matter as serious and as robust as macho violence; I am not going to mix absolutely nothing and therefore I am not going to answer absolutely anything other than the object of this debate. [[Applauds]] However, it is appropriate, for our best work, that some issues also be made clear. First, the criteria for distribution were made at the sectoral conference, approved and published. For the peace of all groups, each autonomous community and each municipality knows perfectly well, by population, territory, dispersion of the population, the exact resources that will reach them because it is published. They are here, we put them to debate, we didn't even have to vote on it because everyone agreed to it. [[shows a document]] When I said that the Government was concerned about the speed and effectiveness of certain issues that I have also explained to your ladies and gentlemen, I was serious. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not occur to me, given the circumstances of the structure of the House, that there is no constitutional instrument, therefore legal, faster to be more efficient in government action than the actual decree; not even by urgent means, because that can be stopped at the Bureau, as you well know. So if we ask for urgency, we make urgency within the framework of constitutional possibilities and we all agree. There is no more urgent way than this which, naturally, in our democratic system does not kidnap the debate in this validation, but from now on urgency, speed, is made certain because the measures are being put in place. Always, absolutely always, we thought it would be law-making. I said this in the minute one of my appearance in the Follow-up Committee and for one reason, which some of you have wanted to explain, very simple: because nobody here has the monopoly of any absolute truth, because we are constantly advancing and improving and understanding each other, each other, in order to do the work that we have to do. It does not deserve this royal decree the name of decree, it does not deserve it. Apart from the fact that it does not exist as a legal category neither in the political slang deserves the word decree which tries to address such complicated issues as this. And yes, the pact obliges us - it cannot be otherwise if we are to make legal changes - to bring them to where the Constitution and the Rules of the Chambers tell us, here, that is where the laws are drafted with different impulses of proposal, in this case of the Government. Let us not confuse or confuse ourselves: any law-change measure will be able to do so in different formats but all pass through here, and we should not be tangled with this for a moment. I proposed to your ladies and gentlemen in the Commission that I should follow up on the pact in which I appeared, as well as on the Equality Commission, which I also attended - in a hundred days or more of government I have appeared three times in three commissions, and in the many I will continue to appear on - that we should be able, by the end of the year, to complete the legal amendment measures that the pact entails and that they are the responsibility of this House and of all of us. I urge you to do so as quickly as possible, as participatory, as useful and as democratic as possible. Thank you very much for the support this House is going to give to all the women in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 10/2018, OF 24 AUGUST, AMENDING LAW 52/2007, OF 26 DECEMBER, RECOGNISING AND ENLARGING LAWS AND ESTABLISHING MEASURES FOR WHOM HAVE PAID PERSECUTION OR VIOLENCE DURING CIVIL WAR AND DECADE. [[File number 130/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u64	We proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 10/2018 of 24 August, amending Law 52/2007 of 26 December, which recognizes and extends rights and establishes measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. To present the decree-law, the Vice-President, Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality, has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u65	President, Members and Members, I rise again this rostrum for the second time this morning to ask your ladies and gentlemen to confirm a Royal Decree of 24 August of the Government. I will be brief because this is a matter that has been under discussion in our society for more than forty years and in recent times even more. It is a debate that is approached from infinite perspectives, but that since 2007, the year in which the so-called Law of Historical Memory is born, requires a closure in the only possible direction, in the direction in which it obliges democracy. We are very late in normalizing a situation that no mature and long democracy in time like ours, fortunately - forty years that we celebrate this justly - would have required not to have an extraordinary anomaly that consists of having the dictator in a mausoleum of state and in a place where he can be exalted. We should have resolved this earlier, but for eleven years now, since the entry into force of the Historical Memory Act, the de facto delay is unsustainable, especially when this House has spoken in different formats of parliamentary figure on three occasions: In the law, in the report of the experts and last year, in May, without any vote against the parliamentary groups, in favor of resolving an anomaly that no democracy with which we want to compare would sustain or have sustained: the presence of the dictator's remains in the same place where the victims, the victims of one and the other side are. For this reason this Government, echoing and being responsible for the three pronouncements of this House, the obligation of the law, as well as the insistent requests of the United Nations to the Spanish State not to support this situation, has wanted not to delay the issue for a single moment. We want to do this for ethical reasons, we want to do it from the deeply democratic values, from where a democracy blames itself and all democrats on this situation. And we want to do so, as it cannot be otherwise, with the guarantees of a State governed by law. The guarantees of a rule of law that give guarantees to those affected, respect for the mortal remains to be moved but above all respect for all the victims and particularly for the thousands of victims that we still have not identified in mass graves and with a marked aggravation to their families, to whom they cannot know where their relatives are, to whom they cannot identify or also give respect to their memory. [[applause]] Our country celebrates at last!, in its recent history, forty years of democracy; of a society that practices it in a mature and profound way; of a Constitution that is respected, applied and developed; of a country that recognizes itself in the European context as one of the great democracies of the world, that cannot suffer the comparative and constant aggravation to victims who have not yet received the respect and honor they deserve. There is no respect, there is no honor, there is no justice, there is no peace or agreement while the remains of Franco are in the same place as those of the victims. There isn't. For this reason, the Government, by means of a royal decree which brings to validation the Chamber and its subsequent processing as a law, requests the approval that, under the procedure provided for in the additional provision added to the 2007 law, it may carry out the procedure which exhumes the dictator's remains, hand them over to his family, if appropriate and if not able to take them to a dignified place. And let the Valley of the Fallen, which was built in a very important part under inhuman conditions by whom the victims of the Republican side had been, remain for peace and for the respect of the more than 30,000 victims of both sides who are there. They deserve peace, they deserve respect and we are obliged to do so. This royal decree develops the Law of historical memory and develops it with the modification and addition of an article to article 16, where it says that the remains of Franco cannot remain in the Valley of the Fallen, that they must be exhumed and that they cannot remain there because this law already said that the exaltation of the dictatorship and of who embodied it in the name of Francisco Franco is forbidden in our country. That it is forbidden to do so!, and if it is forbidden to do so by law, it is not possible that this law is being complied with if the remains are in the Valley of the Fallen. This royal decree adds an additional provision to enable the Government to exhume and transfer these remains and also sets out the different possible scenarios: the scenario in which their family members can take care of them, in which they are not, and in which, in accordance with the rules of our country, which is quite guaranteed and strict, as it cannot be otherwise, we transfer them with due respect. There's no further delay. There should be no further discussion of facts and obligations. Anyone who doesn't see the urgency doesn't see the need, who doesn't see the way it's not seeing the bottom. Everyone has to be questioned before himself as a Democrat on a question which, I repeat and to conclude, is an atrocious anomaly of a democratic state. Let us comply with ourselves, this House and its pronouncements, with what we have been told repeatedly by experts and experts, with the United Nations: let us get our country out of this shame. And for that, on behalf of the Government, I ask you to approve this royal decree and to process it as a law that will allow us to improve all those issues that we have positioned ourselves on numerous occasions, each from its particular ideological perspective, which was outlined in the 2007 law, and which must be improved because there can be no peace without justice and because there can be no agreement without democratic resolve on what has been unjust for forty years. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u66	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Coalition Canaria supported and participated in the Historical Memory Act and, of course, as it could not be otherwise, we will support the decree. That does not mean that we have no criticism of the Government because I believe that things must be done head-on, meditated and knowing how they are going to be done. You can't have a country with the problems that it has six months, plus three months, having thought about it, having looked for the formula, having talked about it and having solved it and that the mummy - which I don't say, says Franco's grandson - is with his family wherever they are. In this country more than half of the Spaniards did not even know that time and I want to remember something because now hatred and confrontation are radicalizing and it is that Germany did not destroy the concentration camps because it is important to remember and not forget so that it will not be repeated again. In that war they fought brothers against brothers, friends and peoples, with more than a million dead. And there are people buried, but also the right of family members who do not want them buried there to be facilitated out. There are still people in this country whose relatives want to recover them and we are not prioritizing that so that the children or grandchildren who still live can have their father or mother. I think that, perhaps, the priorities for historical memory should have been others, but since we are, let's do it, let's leave it now and let's devote ourselves to something else. Many of us are fed up with the yellow ties, Franco's mummies and the damn résumés. Let's figure it out. We will, of course, support him, but there could be other measures within the historical memory because there are still living people who want to see their father or mother with them. Let's get to work, less demagogy and less confrontation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u68	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. In a hundred days, the Government has betrothed this country with sectarian and partisan wars where the missiles are the masters and doctoral theses that overthrow ministers or, perhaps, a president of the Government, where the great feats are the publicity maneuvers that awaken waves of immigrants attracted by the irresponsible solidarity of a compulsive choreographer, where the ambition of power is reaped in the expansion of budgets without a ceiling of spending, where the conquest of social welfare is reduced to the Bolivian management of the silly box of TVE or where the indispensable smoke curtain is constituted by buried remains forty-three years ago to reopen the wounds sutured by our Constitution. Madam Vice-President, do not count on the endorsement of the Forum for this escalation of political dislates and nonsense, which I hope will soon be suffocated by general elections leading to those responsible. Most of the Asturians and Spaniards are not about to stir up these conflicts that distract and give flesh to the staff, but we are about to face solutions to our economic and social situation, to the containment of unemployment, to the lowering of the shopping basket, to the lowering of the price of light, which these days has raised the electrical receipts to the highest historical levels; to remove the ghost of the Holy Company, which visits us to many regions disguised as industrial desertification; to the discretionary forgiveness of multimillion dollar debts to friendly governments; in short, solutions to all these things that worsen and do not improve daily life. To vote on this royal decree-law would make us accomplices to this distraught, which distorts our recent history and our democratic transition, while covering up the pernicious drift of Pedro Sánchez's mandate for the interests of Spain. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid, Madam Vice-President, that the Government has lost many of its reasons for exhuming the dictator's remains by mistaking the policy instrument chosen to do so, because what has been neither urgent nor extraordinary nor necessary in twenty-three years of socialist governments can be less so after forty-three years of democracy. Just reading the decree dismantles all the arguments to justify it. Therefore, an important part of the doctrine has warned that it could be an unconstitutional norm: arbitrariness, abuse of law, fraud of law, misuse of power, fraud of the Constitution and even violation of the right to effective judicial protection. Gentlemen of the PSOE, we have heard Mr Sánchez say that he would not abuse, as president, the use of the royal decree-laws and that he does what he says. I have to appeal to their consistency and ask them to honor the word given, because the truth is that there are days left for them to do quite the opposite of what they say. However, ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss and reach agreements on where Franco's remains should be deposited, we have absolutely no problem, but to what we would not have the right to disregard the historical embrace between active and passive participants of those times, which gave rise to the most successful transition in our history and, less so, if the ultimate objective of doing so was to label the dissenter as a Francoist. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I have read a phrase these days that says that the profession of the politician is the future. That should be our priority: to guarantee the future of the workers of Navantia and Vestas and Davalore and Findus in Navarre; to solve the problem of taxis, to combat the fracture of coexistence in Catalonia, the drama of immigration, macho violence and, of course, also not to generate more uncertainty in the economy with its constant rectifications. Those and many others are the real emergencies of the Spaniards, which require all our attention and also their leadership and willingness to agree among all, trusting much more in the future and looking much more forward. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Euskal Herria Bildu clearly says yes to the exhumation dictator Franco and supports the validation of the royal decree for debate, but considers the government's decision to be insufficient. First of all, considering that it was entirely remote to what had happened to qualify what had happened as Civil War or to label Primo de Rivera as a victim, and thus to think that taking Franco out of the mausoleum built in Cuelgamuros alone would avoid the exaltation of Francoism. Accepting it would mean giving up our anti-Franchist past and we're not going to do it. Secondly, the royal decree mentions the long list of recommendations of the United Nations, but it does not promote the full implementation of them, which calls for a clear road map with a budgetary base, which goes far beyond the exhumation of the remains of Franco and which is the way to end the impunity of Francoism. For this purpose, first of all, they should set up an office of missing franchise victims, together with a DNA bank that is managed from it, so that relatives who wish to do so can recover the remains of their loved ones. Only in the evil Valley of the Fallen are more than a thousand buried Basques whose transfer to Euskal Herria are demanding family members and memorialist associations with which the government should work hand in hand in giving the Cuelgamuros site another meaning, starting by de-acralizing it and changing its name. The Government has so far shown no political will to open the door to the impunity of the Francoism that led to the adoption of the Amnesty Act. They refused, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, their reform, the only way to end the above-mentioned impunity of renouncing their past by leaving aside their own victims, since the Historical Memory Act is not the valid instrument for this, and they know it, since it does not even consider the possibility of prosecuting acts committed during the dictatorship. And it is that the problem is not the remains of Franco, but the permanence of Francoism in the structures of the State, enjoying total impunity and with a foundation that exalts him and that they do not seem to dare to illegalize. We owe the victims of Francoism recognition and reparation. This royal decree is nothing more than a mere blow of effect that alone does not bring us closer to the victims' demand: forty-three years asking for justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, death is equal to all of us, but unfortunately so far some dead have weighed more heavily than others in the minds of government officials, such as that dictator whose remains still constitute a place of pilgrimage and exaltation of his criminal regime. This decree-law represents a starting point - timid, but starting point - to resolve this democratic anomaly, for the dictator to receive burial in private place and for Cuelgamuros to cease to be a monument to institutionalized barbarism. It is to be thanked for the honesty of Mr. Pedro Sánchez in recognizing his hesitations in this unpleasant matter, because he understood that they were due to his status as President under construction. That is why, from Parliament, the centre of the political debate, we will help you find a peace solution for Cuelgamuros, so that it ceases to be an insurmountable Francoist memorial and so that many other essential actions can be taken, for example, the annulment of the judgments of Francoism on political grounds. More speakers may come up to this rostrum to criticize this decree by saying that it breaks the consensus of the Transition, and I understand that it is wrong who goes there. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 2018, Franco has died, we live in a democracy and we are simply going to solve the problem of a place that serves to exalt a dictatorship. Transition is history. For those who do not remember, it was an agreement of forty years ago between the representatives of Francoism and the Democrats, and I believe that some of the actors who at that time made the agreement - we suppose - have already disappeared from history, because, of course, the Democrats at that time are now represented in this Congress, that is why the Transition was made, but, I ask: The Francoists, where are they? Do they still exist? Do they still have the capacity to impose covenants or to tell us how to read the covenants of forty years ago? Because if someone here raises this debate as a critic of a supposed breach of the Transition contract, then does he want to go up to the stand to be the lawyer of the Franco contracting party? What a piece of paper. I hope, for the sake of our democracy, that everyone will leave the Transition in peace now, that all of us will behave as heirs to the democrats who made it possible to start a regime of freedoms and I hope, please, that no one will be attributed the role of guardian of the memory of Francoism. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u76	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. The pre-constitutional Amnesty Law became a law of amnesia, a selective memory machine that allowed for forty years not to face the defeat of the Spanish State. Does the word denazification ring a bell? It began the day after the fall of the fascist regime. The defeat of the Spanish State is indispensable in order to face the construction of a democratic society. We are going to vote yes to this royal decree, but we have also recorded a non-law proposal with a package of measures to deal fully with the deepening of our democratic society. I don't have time to detail them, but we're gonna do it at a later press conference. I want to finish, Madam President, by expressing my surprise. I believe that this royal decree should have captured the consensus of all democratic groups in the House, including the Citizens' and People's Party groups. The democratic field of play is in the exclusion of totalitarianism, fascism and communism, and in this field of play everyone must feel identified. Is there any nostalgic of Francoism in this Chamber, any vindicator of Francoism? It is said that this measure has been taken hastily. It was announced in June, theoretically materialized in July and approved in August, validated by royal decree, validated by this House, by the Congress of Deputies. You see the plumer, you see the plumer in the chicken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to do more. If the Valley of the Fallen is a civil cemetery, as the Government proposes, the Valley of the Fallen must be secularized. What is this about praying for the soul of a dictator under the cloak of the public budget? Withdrawal of monuments of Francoist symbolism. Effective identification of mortal remains. Urgent amendment of the Law on Official Secrets and Military Archives of the dictatorship. The nullity of the political sentences of Francoism, a German model, is an indispensable condition for our vote in favour of this royal decree. Illegalization of the Francisco Franco Foundation and any other...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u78	Mr. Xuclà, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u79	I'll be done in a second. May I?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u80	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u81	Cancellation of the noble titles granted under the dictatorship in recognition of the services provided to it and, also, definitive annulment of a National Court created in January 1977 under a pre-constitutional regime. This is a matter for working with the rest of the groups. I am convinced that, from now on, we will work to get the dictator out of a public-budgeted space and convince ourselves that a democratic society is built only with the defeat of the Spanish state forty-five years after democratic life. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u83	Thank you very much, President. We are presented with validation the Royal Decree-Law 10/2018, of 24 August, which amends, in part, the law known as the Historical Memory, a modification that pursues, according to his memory, a threefold objective: to establish that the mortal remains of persons who died because of the Civil War can only lie in the Valley of the Falles, to enable the exhumation of the mortal remains of persons other than those who died during the Civil War and to explicitly consecrate the Valley of the Falles as a place of commemoration, remembrance and egalitarian homage to the victims. I have to express to you from this very first moment our vote in favour of the validation of the decree-law and that we will also vote in favour of it being treated as a bill. There are aspects of this Historical Memory Act that we believe should be improved through the corresponding amendments. Our support for the decree-law is based, briefly and directly, on what is described in the report of the expert commission for the Valley of the Fallen, made in 2011 at the request of the Government. This is something we all know, but it is no more than a committee of experts that reflects it black on white. In the report it is said that Franco arranged in 1940 the construction of the Valley of the Fallen; that in its construction forced labor constituted by political prisoners of his dictatorship; that the Valley of the Fallen was born as a memory of part, because it has to do more with Franco's intention than with the significance of the victims; that it is a space to signify some victims and to invisibly others, to remember the victory of some and the defeat of others, to exalt Franco's victory in the Civil War, the national Catholic ideology that was implanted, and the desire to turn those who died into heroes and martyrs into the Crusader, ignoring the overcome ones. And it also says that the Valley of the Fallen is born as a symbolic place of the Franco dictatorship, which is a construction that stores suffering and blood and the most important monumental symbol of the Civil War and of the Franco dictatorship. After the description by the commission of experts of what was and remains the Valley of the Fallen, how to keep there buried, and in its most prominent and symbolic place, to its architect, Francisco Franco, who built it for memory and as a symbol of his coup d'état, of the dictatorship that came next and of the crimes committed during his almost half century of dictatorship. Francisco Franco, who is also the only one who, without having died in the Civil War, is buried there, and whose presence - the expert commission also points out - hinders the purpose of making the whole a place for the memory of the victims buried there and without any ideological or political connotation. For this reason, it is recommended both the resignation of the funeral hierarchy established since its constitution and the integral resignation of the site, recommending for this purpose that the remains of Franco be exhumed and transferred out of the Valley of the Fallen. The Basque Group shares these reflections and conclusions of the experts' report and therefore also the actual decree-law that implements them and whose validation, as I have already said, we will support without prejudice to its subsequent processing as a bill, which we believe is appropriate, in order to be able to assess other aspects of the Memory Act that were not properly resolved in their day, such as making effective the nullity of judgments adopted in violation of fundamental principles of law and due process during the Civil War and Francoism, as proposed by the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations Human Rights Committee, recalling to this end other experiences of countries that have faced similar challenges, many of them in the European context, and which could be beneficial to us, as happened in Germany almost twenty years ago, when in 1988 the law on the annulment of national socialist unfair judgments was passed, leaving the judgements of those courts without legal effectiveness. Also the public participation in the work of locating and exhuming graves and identifying bodies of persons who have been victims of enforced disappearance from the Civil War and the dictatorship is an urgent responsibility for the Government of the State after being recriminated by the UN Working Group on Enforced Disappearances in 2017, for not having followed its recommendations of 2013 and abandoning, literally, its fate to the victims of the dictatorship. In 2016, in Spain there were 2,382 common graves identified and pending their proper treatment, such as the identification of the victims and their surrender to their families. Finally - I am finalizing, Madam President - there are other aspects such as the withdrawal of the Francoist symbolology, a more determined budget support and the office itself, the same promotion to recover the historical memory and should also be addressed, as has already been pointed out, the reform of the Law on Official Secrets, pending in the Constitutional Commission, and that always for a or be there is a reason not to address it by the majority groups of the House, hindering its debate and amendment following the proposed law presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, allowing access to classified documentation of the Civil War and Francoist dictatorship to both victims, historians and research and the general public. All these and others are urgent issues that affect the historical memory and that we trust we can discuss when we process the decree-law once we validate it as a bill. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u84	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, as spokesman, I met with the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and asked them to vote in favour of this royal decree and I told them that it was because I had the word of the Vice-President of the Government and the commitment made by the Government she represents. And why did this start so anomalous, why did I have to address my colleagues asking them to trust me in the same way that I had their confidence? Because it has been recorded in the imagination of the Catalan memorialist entities when the Vice-President of the Government, Fernández de la Vega, in 2004, alongside the many honorable president, Pasqual Maragall, in the Fossar de la Pedrera - the altar of thousands of anti-fascist and anti-Franquist victims, and of Lluís Companies - said: The Spanish Government will annul the sentence of President Lluís Companies and of all the Democrats fallen under the barbarity of the dictatorship. And in 2018 we are the same. What does all this mean? That we have the past we have. And we have absolute confidence in you; in fact, we look forward to your commitment. What was the commitment of the Vice President of the Government? That during the parliamentary process we would proceed to work in order and effect to obtain the annulment of the sentences of the Francoist courts. We are talking about the war councils, the court of public order, the court against the repression of Freemasonry and Communism, and the court of political responsibility. By the way, the Catalan Parliament has overturned these sentences, only those which were upheld in Catalan territory, and I remind you - and it is worth reminding you - that it was with the popular and citizen's party's favourable vote, which we will have to take into account when they start with some madness before this initiative and this compromise. Citizens and the People's Party voted in favour, i.e. the Parliament of Catalonia unanimously approved the annulment of the sentences which were handed down in Catalan territory. As we have the commitment that during the parliamentary process we will proceed to work in order and effect to annul the sentences of the Francoist courts - by the way, that was one of the reasons why Esquerra Republicana did not vote in favour of the Law of Memory - even when it is late, of course, we feel somewhat relieved that, at least in 2018, we have reached this agreement with you. Having said that, we know that the agreement is this one and only this one, but, in order not to be fooled and not to be able to say that we play dirty, I announce to you that during the parliamentary process we will try to achieve other objectives. And I'm going to tell you what the decalogue of our goals is, and no one can say that we got them out of the joke, because they've always been the same. One, legal recognition of victims as such. Two, responsibility of the public administration and the judicial system in the policy of graves. What cannot be done is that the Spanish state treats the graves as if they were Roman burials. Three, the responsibility of the State in the deportations of Spanish and Catalan Republicans to the Nazi extermination camps, which could be executed following the treaties between the two chancelleries that considered Spanish and Catalan citizens stateless. Four, recognition of the guerrillas, of the maquisards, that is, of those Spanish and Catalan republicans, some of them decorated by the French Republic, who continued to fight for democracy and who today continue to be considered bandits. Five, study what we do with the victims of the transition, those citizens who were killed by the far right or, for example, by officials, that is, people we should at least consider whether they are invisible or not. Between 1977 and 1978 there was a few months of great emptiness. Did we live in democracy? Half of the Constitution had not yet been adopted. This is a black hole that needs to be posed. Six, reparations to individuals and collectives - also political parties - victims of seizures, such as paper money; there are still thousands of people who have payés from the Banco de España, whose assets were seized and on whom, today, the Spanish Administration has not yet said anything. Seven, stolen kids. The issue of stolen children is not solved. Eight, we have not finished the work of all that has to do with the nationality of the third generation of Spanish and Catalan citizens who have been exiled; this is not resolved. Nine, it cannot be that the Amnesty Act covers crimes against humanity. At least one must consider which criminal proceedings cannot be protected under the umbrella of the Amnesty Act. Tenth - and I finish -, the annulment of sentences. Having said that, Mrs. Carmen Calvo, we have full confidence in you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u86	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the Vice-President of the Government. The support and confidence that those who want to break Spain have in you, the support and confidence that those who want to break Spain like Mr Tardà in the Vice-President of the Government of Spain, is almost exciting. I think that explains much of the situation in this country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u88	Quiet everyone, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u89	Beyond that, we agree with you that there is an anomaly, we agree that a democracy like ours cannot have a monument that exalts the dictatorship and the dictator. Solutions must therefore be put in place to remedy that anomaly. What happens is that you, with this royal decree, no matter how much you say, do not correct the anomaly. They present a partial and insufficient solution and present it through an instrument that is not the right one, which is the royal decree. And all of this they do - they present a partial and insufficient solution and they do so by means of an inadequate instrument - saying that there is an extraordinary and urgent need, when it is not true, because the one who really has an urgent and extraordinary need is the President of the Government, Mr Pedro Sánchez. After forty years, digging up Franco's corpse is neither a priority nor an urgent matter for the vast majority of Spaniards, but, as we say, Mr. Pedro Sánchez does have an urgent need, which is to launch a smokescreen that covers the shames and weaknesses of his government. [[Applauds]] Mr. Pedro Sánchez has the need to cover up his inability to stop the separatists who so flatter his government, I remember that it is those who want to break our country, who want to break our democracy. Mr. Pedro Sánchez has an urgent need to cover up his inability to manage the economy of this country without jeopardizing economic recovery. Mr Sánchez has an urgent need to cover his inability to approve a spending ceiling in this House. Mr. Pedro Sánchez has an urgent need to cover up his inability to deal with the problem of illegal immigration. Mr. Pedro Sánchez has an urgent need to cover up his inability not to make a mockery of international politics by giving him bandages. Mr Sánchez has an urgent need to cover up his inability to reform the autonomous financing system. And so we could continue, disaggregating Mr. Pedro Sánchez's disabilities. But, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, I'm going to give you some bad news: Franco's body's smokescreen doesn't cover his disability, weakness and incompetence. [[Applauds]] As the issue of resolving this anomaly, even if it is not an urgent issue, we must tackle it, let us face it well, let us not use an inadequate mechanism that serves only the interests and emergencies of Mr Sánchez. Don't bring us squats, let's work seriously so that the Valley of the Fallen is not a monument to the dictator or the dictatorship. Let's look for solutions and not smokescreens at Mr. Sanchez's service. To work well, to work seriously, to seek solutions, is to pay attention to the expert opinion of 2011, which I believe all those who have come to this rostrum have made up their minds. But this expert opinion, which the Socialist Party had previously also advocated, when it wanted to address this issue seriously - now that it wants to use it as a smokescreen, seems to demarcate from the consensus of that opinion - has two fundamental axes: the resignification as a place of memory and reconciliation of the Valley of the Fallen, of course without the dictator - one cannot speak of memory of all and of reconciliation with the dictator buried in the Valley of the Fallen - and, second, of the search for the broadest consensus. This is the first of the recommendations of the expert opinion. You bring us a royal decree that by its very nature does not seek consensus, seeks a quick solution so that Mr. Sánchez can cover his problems, and neither does it seek that the Valley of the Fallen be a monument to reconciliation. In fact, we have heard some statements from the Government in the opposite direction, saying that it is no longer going to be a monument to reconciliation, but it is going to be something else. We suppose that something has to do with it that its partners in this and in everything are those who want to harm Spain, who want to harm Spanish democracy, those who want to break our country, those who do not believe in the Transition and those who do not believe in reconciliation. We remain in the possible consensus of the expert opinion of 2011, i.e. a comprehensive solution for the Valley of the Fall, reconciliation and the broadest possible consensus. You want to make us complicit in Mr Sánchez's emergencies, and we understand that he is in a complicated, weak situation, in the hands of populists and separatists, and that this is a complicated situation, but do not ask us to be complicit in his emergencies or ask us to support his hobbies. We are not going to oppose the validation of this royal decree-law, but we ask that it be treated as a bill to try, in this parliamentary process, to transform that incomplete and totally insufficient chapuza that you have brought us into something more similar to what the experts indicated in their report: resignation of the Valley of the Fallen, reconciliation and consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u90	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u91	Eighty years of shame: forty years of dictatorship, over forty years of impunity. Faced with this, a new and young society that is ashamed of that past, facing this a democratically mature society that wants to move on at once. We want to move on, of course, but those who are here today and society as a whole must not forget the thousands of women who have been retaliated, the more than 30 000 missing babies, the more than 190 000 shot and the more than 114 000 who continue to be buried in the Valley of the Falles and in so many counties and to which we have to draw. [[Applauds]] In relation to the actual decree that comes to ratification today, from our group we express our clear dissatisfaction. It consists of a single article, the content of which seems to us absolutely insufficient, I would say more, it seems painfully inaccurate to us. There was, gentlemen of the Government, no struggle, what was a coup d'état, before a savage repression and before a forty-year dictatorship. [[applause]] We are not going to fall into the lie of both sides that seems to slip that royal decree. No democratic state can match murderers with their victims. It is not the same torturer as the tortured, it is not the same culture and education as violence and terror, it is not the same a coup dictator as those who were the legitimate defenders of democracy and constitutional order. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is true that the Socialists, unfortunately, do not have too much credibility. Precisely in this House a few days ago you voted against the amnesty law, and we are in 2018. After twenty years of socialist governments we continue to do so. But what happened? What happened was a blow from fascism against democracy. The tearing, the painful is the Spanish anomaly. In Europe those who fought for freedom were recognized as heroes of democracy, while in Spain they were treated as outlaws and criminals. And what about the anti-fascist fighters?, all those who, for example, entered with The Nine liberating Paris. [[Applauds]] In Spain, concealment and humiliation; in Europe, pride and recognition. Gentlemen of the PP and of Citizens, unfortunately, fascism is not past, fascism retraces Europe, the one with which Mr Rivera is allied, the one with which Mr Casado flirts. We say it loud and clear: Most of this society is against those fascist ideologies that many of you have been airing all summer. And, Mr Villegas, who broke Spain was Franco, we are not the democratic forces, we are trying to build a change in this country. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP don't come to us with a false negationist agreement. What's the point of continuing at this point in defending the coup? Take advantage of this moment to join the democratic future and to clearly condemn the coup past. As Galicians and Galicians we are outraged and we have to talk to them about everything stolen and, of course, about the Peace of Meirás. How can the privileges of the dictatorship and the dictator's family continue in democracy? How can a dictator's family continue to enjoy what is Galician and Galician? And we say to him, Franco, in addition to a thug, a dictator and a murderer, was a thief. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We have matured as a society and today we are a society without fear; citizens no longer consent to impunity. And remember, when we say 'fascism never again', we say truth, justice and reparation. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u92	Also by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it's about time. Forty-three years have passed since the dictator's death in bed, and more than twenty years of Socialist Party governments, so that today, at last, we will vote for the end of an infamy. We are the second country in the world in the number of forced disappearances; we have more than one hundred thousand victims in mass graves and, yes, that same country has taken forty-three years of democracy to exhume the dictator from his mausoleum - other colleagues have said before -; a mausoleum built in semi-slavery conditions by political prisoners who had been ordered to imprison the genocidal dictator; a mausoleum with a sword cross 150 meters high designed to be seen miles away and to pay tribute to those who fought at the hand of Hitler and Mussolini to overthrow the Republic, conceived to be seen and conceived to frighten. Today, yes, you finally decide to end an infamy and we are happy, but it is an infamy that should never have been given; an infamy that, if it occurred, was due to the decision of the successor appointed by Franco, Mr Juan Carlos de Borbón, the same gentleman whom along with the People's Party and Citizens continue to protect so that he does not come to this House to be democratically investigated for possible corruption. It seems to us that that is also burying the franchise. Of course we will vote - my colleague has already said - in favour of exhuming Franco. We, from the United Left, have already raised it; now, as a Confederal Group, we continue, logically putting it forward, but it is not a blank cheque. Exhuming Franco is necessary, but we urge you to bury the Franco, because this decree does not resolve. They ask to exhume Franco because it was not a fall and, ladies and gentlemen, that is barbarity, because somehow they are recognizing the dictator's desire that this was a space of reconciliation between fascism and democracy and cannot be, because one cannot be a Democrat without being anti-fascist, and this was taught to us by those who gave their lives for democracy for forty years. We're going to tell you things that are missing in this decree. This decree should make it clear that if Franco is exhumed it is because he was a genocidal, not because he was not a fallen one. This decree should make it clear that Primo de Rivera must also get out of there, because he was the founder of a movement that justified barbarism. This decree should make it clear that the thousands of Republican corpses that were buried there, without the consent of their families, will also be exhumed. And this decree should also make it clear that a cross that claims a national-Catholic crusade like that undertaken by Franco cannot remain standing. This decree, in short, should make it clear that the valley is touched, de-acralized and resigned. Because as long as the dictator's family continues to enjoy a plundered, never returned patrimony and noble titles that you allow them - you, with the connivance of the People's Party and Citizens - thousands of families in this country remain unrecognized as victims of a crime against humanity that raped, tortured, murdered, imprisoned and stole babies for more than forty years. We, along with the victims, have recently registered a law of democratic memory in which we give you some ideas, if you do not have, if you have not had forty-three years to think about them. Some of them were said by my colleague before: to pay tribute, for example, to the anti-fascist fighters. They can be summed up in something very simple: that truth, justice and reparation are something more than a very beautiful motto that we repeat in some mobilizations, that they are the basis for building non-repetition so that no one can ever again suffer fascism anywhere in the world. And it's not a small thing, it's not a slogan we've launched, it's something that's happening in Europe and that we'll have to teach new generations to fight and stop. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will support your decree to exhume the dictator, but we ask you to help us bury the franchise tomorrow. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u94	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of the Socialist Group, today is a day for history, today is a day to celebrate it. Finally! Finally! [[Applauds]] I am grateful to my colleague Anita Molina, ninety-eight years old, from Jaén, a historian of the Socialist Party, who is here today to enshrine the government, to enshrine the Socialist Group and to enshrine the Democrats whom we have come today to validate this royal decree-law, which is another step in strengthening our democracy. We must do so, ladies and gentlemen, for the memory of many victims who suffered repression during the years of war and the dictatorship and for whom the arrival of democracy did not entail reparation in terms of freedom and justice. In this sense, today I advance that the Socialist Group will support the processing as draft of this royal decree-law, so that among all, as other spokesmen who have already spoken before me, we can add a second impulse to the Historical Memory Act where we can include, among other measures, a commission of truth, the annulment of the Francoist courts, in order to nullify their cruel and inhumane sentences and also to raise, at last, the 115 000 people who are still in common pools and graves. [[Applauds]] In the last scene of The Bicycles are for the summer, work by Fernán Gómez, a father tells his son a phrase that explains very well what happened in 1939, when Francoist troops won the war: My son, peace has not arrived, victory has arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, do not deceive or pretend to deceive anyone: the Valley of the Fallen has represented during all these years the exaltation of Francoism. Our obligation is precisely to correct that unacceptable anomaly for a democracy such as the Spanish one, and that begins by moving the dictator's tomb, in order to end the criminal's history by reigning for all eternity over his victims - this is a democratic obligation - and in order that in that place only the mortal remains of those people who died as a result of the Civil War can lie, as a place of commemoration, remembrance and tribute to the victims of the contest and, of course, respecting the desire of those families who want to recover their loved ones. [[applause]] This is what we are debating here today, and in this consensus we would like to find the rest, the entire political forces of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the blue and orange right, you are using the form of a royal decree-law as an excuse to deny the urgency of a political mandate from this Congress, which in 2017, in May, adopted an initiative on the proposal of our group, following the recommendations of the UN and adopted without any vote against, which urged the Government urgently to exhume the dictator in a preferential way. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you, the oranges, the citizens', then voted in favour of what you are criticising today, but let me tell you that you are lost in this ideological maze in which you have embarked, in a fraticidal struggle, as we have said many times, for taking the votes of the extreme right in which you compete with the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are competing for the votes of the extreme right, but, let me say, there are not so many, there are very few, fortunately, and it is not worth it; it is not worth betraying the values of democracy by four votes, it is not worth it. [[Applauds]] They cannot refrain from democracy, they cannot refrain from dignity, reparation, justice. We do believe that it is urgent because this Parliament has considered it to be so. You don't unravel if you feel comfortable with a monument that exalts a dictator and you stay in other excuses. But do you really feel comfortable having a monument to a dictator 20 kilometers from Madrid?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Can you imagine twenty kilometres from Berlin a monument to Hitler or twenty kilometres from Rome a monument to Mussolini?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I do not want that for my country because I want an advanced country democratically, I want to end that anomaly, and like me, the President of the Government and Spanish society as a whole. [[Applauds]] Look, another of the excuses we have heard in these months is that this debate divides the Spaniards. Do you really think that avoiding the exaltation of Francoism divides the Spanish? It will divide your group, but the Spaniards I assure you not. Let him look at it, ladies and gentlemen of the right of the House, because these kinds of statements create an insurmountable gap between you and a democraticly open and modern society. This modern, democratic, European society is ashamed of this: that in the 21st century, outside the capital of Spain, there is still a monument in honor of a coup player, a dictator and a genocidal one, for that is what we have right now. [[Applauds]] But what can we expect from a leader of the PP who said a few years ago that we are a hooves that we think of the war of our grandparents and the mass graves where they are still buried without identifying 115 000 victims of Francoism, 115 000 people whose families are still looking for? What can we expect from Mr Rivera, who ensures that talking about historical memory is as obsolete as listening to music on cassettes and vinyls, as if it were something other than democratic quality and justice in an advanced society? Since we announced this compromise, you have made a public speech against exhumation, which is ultimately abstaining. I beg you, if you will, not to abstain from democracy. I told you before: do not abstain from dignity, do not do so; but do so above all for yourselves. Look, we're used to citizens' bullshit, voting one thing today and then doing another thing, rectifications - worse, always worse - but in politics, gentlemen, the important thing is not the votes but the principles. These are the ones that allow us to recognize our own face in the mirror and that thanks to this citizenship can be recognized without cracks in us. You, with your new change of position in this matter, are no longer recognized by anyone. Mr. Married, do you think that the people of our generation really do not agree with this position? Do you think our democracy does not deserve this advance? Do you really think you can't talk about this because of the concord? Concordia arrived in our country forty years ago in the form of a Constitution! [[Applauds]] Do not talk to us about concord with the dictator or the dictatorship, with fascism; among Spaniards, yes, and that happened forty years ago. We have that clear, and that is because unlike you, we have no problem either with history or with our history as a party or with the history of Spain as a country. It is our duty and our obligation, ladies and gentlemen - and I am speaking to the 350 Members of the House - to change these reminiscences that are still taking this step. Because, let us not forget, while a dictator continues to receive fresh flowers daily in a state tomb, we continue to remember at 13 Rosas, at 18 Funeres and we continue to search in common coves and pits Federico García Lorca - dear Ian Gibson, who is in the rostrum - and thousands of people killed during the Francoism. We owe all of them this democratic impetus, but above all we owe it to our democracy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Spain deserves unanimity at this historic moment. Future generations will study the end of this chapter with the sad outcome of a right that in 2018 was not able to rise to the level of Spanish society. That is why I appeal at this last moment to you to reconsider your position. They're still on time. Ladies and gentlemen, let us close together the blackest chapter in our country's history; we deserve to close it as soon as possible for democratic dignity. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u96	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calvo, Vice-President of the Government, of what you have expressed in the presentation of this royal decree-law for this validation debate, I am particularly concerned about one thing you have said: Whoever does not see the form, is not seeing the substance. It is a way of saying that the end justifies the means. I am very concerned that, in fact, the quality of a democracy is measured by respect for forms and by respect for procedures. Let me say it would have a descriptive value, but illustrious jurists throughout history and all latitudes have made sentences and formulated sentences that are stoning in relation to this issue. You seem to understand that form is something like a mere liturgy, a decoration or a procedure that must be fulfilled because what matters is the background. Well, look, Mrs Calvo, an illustrious Spanish jurist, the main architect of the prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities, says: If our State is a rule of law, the law and not the whim of the ruler must dominate the whole of his decisions. Take note. Respect for form is the guarantee in the face of the arbitrariness of the public authorities. An illustrious German lawyer, Von Ihering, said the same in another way. I have underlined the phrase that a friend of mine and a fellow banker, Francisco Martínez, published in a magnificent article about this a few days ago: The form is the twin sister of freedom and the sworn enemy of arbitrariness. Take note, Mrs. Calvo. [[Applauds]] The form, Madam Vice-President of the Government, is not a procedure to be followed, it is a requirement and a guarantee of a democracy in the face of the arbitrariness of the public authorities. You, when you were in the opposition, publicly committed, and here you were reminded, not to misuse, you said, that the governments of Mariano Rajoy of the People's Party were doing. In a hundred days you have nine royal decree-laws. Not bad! It would even be advisable to read the rulings of the Constitutional Court against your appeals before our royal decree-laws, which were partially accepted, according to the Constitutional Court and consistent with your claim, for not giving itself the characteristics of extraordinary and urgent necessity that justified the royal decree-law. And you are now trying to convince us, Your Honor, that it is of extraordinary and urgent need to exhume Franco's corpse forty-three years after you buried it. A respect for common sense and a respect for that mature democracy - I don't know if it has anything to do with Venezuela - that says we have in Spain. Because, of course, how is it compatible that we have had forty years of constitutional governments, of mature democracy, indeed, of which more than half with socialist governments, and that they have not had the irony, the courage and the strength, as the explanation of reasons for the royal decree-law says, that they now seem to have to exhume Franco's remains? By the way, they must legislate well and also know what they are about. Do you know, Madam Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, that the literal application of this royal decree-law necessarily leads to the exhumation of the remains of nineteen Benedictine monks who, with their tombstones, names, surnames and date, are buried in the cemetery, following the tradition of the Benedictine order throughout the world, in the Valley of the Fallen, perfectly identified the nineteen graves? Don't they know? Of course, the President of the Government has already rectified himself and rectified the actual decree-law before being validated, because, following the rapporteur Pablo de Greiff of the United Nations, and following in turn the conclusions of the Committee of Experts of the year 2011, the Valley of the Falles had to be reworded, and Mr. Pedro Sánchez has now said that it is not possible to reword a place like the Valley of the Falles with the connotations of all kinds that it has. You have rectified yourselves before validating the royal decree-law, and I am talking about rectifications because it is clear that if it is true that rectification is of the wise, rectification permanently is of the ignorant, and having a government that is rectifying every day generates instability, legal insecurity, and is the most contrary to what is necessary for a mature democracy. Do you know that? [[Applauds]] And the spokesman of your group comes to us, giving us lessons and trying to move us, because he begs us - I repeat, he begs us - to get out of the abstention and to go on the right path, which is obviously yours, that of the Lords of Podemos and that of the independenceists who want to break Spain. It is already serious that we have to endure that you, the Government of Spain, are in the blue bank not with the votes of the Spanish, because you were defeated twice in six months with the greatest defeat in the recent history of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, but with the votes of those who want to destroy Spain. Without the vote of the independenceists you would not have reached the necessary majority for the motion of censure to have triumphed. It's legal, but the legitimacy of origin is that. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have tried to substantiate the extraordinary and necessary urgency required by article 86 of the Constitution on the basis that you interpret a majority of Spanish society, the non-legislative proposal adopted by Congress, by this House on 11 May last year and the repeated recommendations of a UN rapporteur, as if the recommendations of a UN rapporteur - who, by the way, was invited to Spain by Mr Rajoy's Government, with forgiveness - were resolutions of the Security Council or of the General Assembly of the United Nations. A respect for what the rapporteur says, which on the other hand before coming here, was in Burundi. You know why? He was in Burundi because there was a genocide between Hutus and Tutsis with a million victims. You know that, don't you? [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, I repeat. Comparing Spanish democracy in 2014 with what happened in Burundi barely thirteen years ago, because the civil war ended in 2005, is an insult to Spain and Spanish democracy. Is that clear? That's what I'm telling you. [[Applauds]] Well, all that said, ladies and gentlemen, we have again been threatened by the truth commission. Frankly, I am ashamed that in Spain there is talk of a commission of truth, when the bibliography regarding the Spanish civil war is one of the greatest in relation to any historical fact throughout the history of humanity, so clear. But since they speak of a commission of truth and have spoken of the Valley of the Fallen - logically, taking into account the nature and object of this royal decree-law - I make available to them this book that has been sent to us to more than one hundred Members of this House. [[Show a book]] It came to me in my office last week: the prisoners of the Valley of the Fallen. [[Rumors]] Listen to me, please, because this is the summary of a doctoral thesis, does it ring a bell? This is the summary of a doctoral thesis that was the result of eight years of research, of enormous documentary material, among which the funds of National Heritage contained in more than sixty boxes, which are in the Royal Palace and which no researcher, no supposed historian had approached to verify. This is what the truth commission sees so that once and for all, when they try to say according to what things, they start to work, they start to investigate and do not start to dogmatize without knowing what they are talking about. Mrs. Lastra, I end up telling you I'm sorry, because you begged us to vote. I'm so sorry, I'm not moved, I'm so sorry. You know that Mrs Carmen Montón, Minister of Equality, said that we are not all the same, and we are not going to accompany you on this adventure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u98	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Sometimes we use too often the adjective of historical or historical to refer to a situation, yet today at least I have the feeling that it is, and it is without ambiguity and without grandiloquencies, because each of you - I have no vote - will remain for the history portrayed with itself and with all the men and women who are our compatriots. For this reason I understand that it is very difficult to profile in front of the dictatorship, and to explain something like this is very difficult in 2018, in Europe and in a democratic House. I would like to thank the parliamentary groups that have announced that they are going to accompany the Government in the validation of this royal decree, and its subsequent processing as a law, to greatly improve our Historical Memory Law, a law that made another socialist government - late, indeed - and we are prepared to close with justice some things that the Transition left open. The transition with much was extraordinarily useful and came quite close to perfection, but perfection does not exist, so I convey my thanks to you. But it is also appropriate that, at least on the part of the Government, we should make clear some of the things that have been dropped in the speeches. In forty years of democratic life, today we can say - in a time I don't know - that the record for the use of real decrees was achieved in 2012 by a People's Party government with an absolute majority, which is already absurd to use this mechanism with an absolute majority. [[Applauds]] To this day. This is a formula of fully constitutional and democratic legislation, but today it has been you, from the People's Parliamentary Group, and from your party, who have made a statistically incontestable excess of it: twenty-nine, and without need, because you had an absolute majority. That too is the mirror in front of which you have to reflect. There will be many things to discuss and to improve in the procedure of processing, after this validation, which is certain to guess, to improve the Law of Historical Memory, and I will not enter into it. In any case, I will say, with regard to the request made by the committee of experts, that the first element to resignify in a different way to the Valley of the Fallen is to remove the remains of Franco. We are at the beginning of this order that we have to stand in relation to that place. But, look, Mr. Speaker of the People's Party, you wanted to come and give a small class, surely following Chomsky, who already said that background and form cannot be separated because they are part of the same, and in law much more, but in that coming up from his lordship you have gotten into an extraordinary garden, wanting to separate legality from legitimacy from this government. You have literally said here that the previous government did rule with the legitimate and legal votes of the people, and this may not. [[Protests. - Laughs. - Rumors.]] I'm asking you to remove it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u100	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u101	I ask you to withdraw it, because you are not only failing to comply with the Constitution, but placing in an extraordinary eggplant the consolidated Spanish democracy, whose 40th birthday we celebrate this year. But, more than that, there are those who have dared to order, in terms of greater or lesser quality, the seats of this House, because there are seats that are worse, and those that are worse are those who may be behind the support of this Government, and the representative of one of those seats trusts me. As if you trust me, Mr. Villegas. If you have something to say about the legality and legitimacy of some parliamentary group, some seat, some party, the laws are at your disposal, like mine, like that of everyone else. But those speeches are extraordinarily scathing in a chamber. They remain well outside the House, but calling into question within the House the legality and legitimacy of a constitutional, legal and legitimate government, that of Spain, which now appears through my modest person, and classifying the seats as better or worse for its ideological project, is serious. That is serious in democracy, and it is serious because it is regulated by our laws, guaranteed by our Constitution, and that cannot be the subject of those words. Either we all comply with the Constitution, or we all comply with all the organic laws that govern political parties or not. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u102	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u103	But you have gone very far in this debate today. All, absolutely all, and with each of the rules. Look at the difficulty they have had in saying that they are going to abstain, and that they are not finally going to tell the Spaniards and the Spanish that a dictator cannot be exalted. What a great difficulty they have had in doing so, some even changing positions. [[Applauds]] That is the final summary of this debate. I conclude, Madam President, as it cannot be in any other way and as I have already said, with my thanks to those who are going to accompany us, and also, as it cannot be in any other way, with my respect to those who are not going to do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u105	We turn to the point concerning committee opinions on legislative initiatives, and in particular on the proposal for a reform of the autonomous status of the Canary Islands. I welcome the President of the Canary Islands, who honours us in the rostrum with his presence. Thank you very much. To defend the particular amendments and votes made to this legislative initiative, I have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, who will also fix a position at this time. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Anyone who is not going to be in this debate should leave the Chamber. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government of the Canary Islands, there are days that make history. There are sad days, when one of our parents dies, and in return there are unforgettable days, when one of our children is born. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u108	Today is a day of happiness, because today a new community and a new people are being born here. Canary Islands is going to climb the last step of its legal system in order to place itself, with a new status of autonomy, in the recognition within the State as a maximum autonomy. Almost four decades after starting the path of self-government the islands have shown that they are capable of managing their own future, a new future is emerging. There are some who would like to steal the child born to their true mother, but this cradle is defended by history. This status is the son of the new canarian nationalism, that firm, responsible and sensible nationalism, that which has moved with loyalty and firmness within the Constitution, without cultivating xenophobia and without fishing in the poisoned waters of secessionism. We have always been in the same place, fighting for the Canary Islands, explaining over and over again that we are a different and distant reality, in Brussels and Madrid, and little by little we have managed to recognize the reality of a distant and fragmented archipelago where a people of more than 2 million people who feel proudly part of Europe live. Today is the day of Canarias; today is the day of Manuel Hermoso, of Victoriano Ríos, of Antonio Castro Cordobez, of Adán Martín, of Juan Manuel García Ramos, and of the tireless work of José Miguel Ruano for so many years. It is the day of so many canarian nationalist politicians who stood firm and worked to make this a reality, who fought for the recognition of the canarian waters when no one believed in them, who defended that self-government was not a disloyalty, but a right, and who managed to get us to this day. But this would not have been possible without the final impulse that with passion and with much, much dialogue resumed Fernando Clavijo. In these times when so many fight to divide, we work to unite. We are a people who would have every reason in the world to feel called to break, but we are inhabitants of the twenty-first century, we are deep and radically nationalist, but we believe in the Europe of peoples and regions, we believe in the need of welfare states as a guarantee for social justice, and we believe in solidarity between people and territories. That is the flag we raise and the code for which we operate, with loyalty and responsibility that we have shown incessantly. The Canary Islands finally has a new status that will make it a platform for European and Spanish policies towards Africa, which will give it a new leadership in the Middle Atlantic and which will foster our economic development. Our people have set themselves wings to fly higher and further. I can only say that I feel tremendous happiness and that I feel tremendous gratitude for all those who have worked to make this moment come true. Never did so many owe so much to so few and courageous politicians that they never gave up, that they believed in the Canaries and in their majority. I'm done, Madam President. The shadow of a canary deputy named Ramón Gil Roldán applauds today from the ghostly rostrums where he was in the bad republic; his old dream of autonomy status becomes reality today, and his words today come true: They say that the race died and was never a dead race. Canary Islands today is more alive than ever. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for the Canary Islands. Eleven years after the regrettable withdrawal of the previous new statute, with the sole aim of avoiding the reform of the unjust electoral system, after having lost the opportunity for the Canary Islands to place itself with its statute in what other communities have achieved, in what are called second and third generations of the statute, all this has happened to the detriment of the interests of the Canary Islands, but today we will have a new Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands. It does not represent the totality of New Canarias' aspirations, as it cannot be otherwise, but it is the result of everyone's effort, from the discrepancy or from the agreement. It is the result of a perfectly democratic process that has generated a considerably improved status on the already improved one that had come from the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Some issues are particularly relevant. We announce that the Canary Islands are no longer suspended in the ether, there is already a recognition of the territorial scope of the Canary waters, that the island of La Graciosa is an island with all its rights. It also happens that in the area of rights, where there was a wide debate - I do not have time to explain it - there is talk of the fight against poverty, of an income of citizenship as a sensitive contribution; the strengthening of the Economic and Fiscal System and the guarantee that it will never again be part of autonomous financing, something that has done irreparable damage to the Canary Islands and which was resolved from the General Budgets of the State of 2017, or guarantees that its reform will take place with sufficient canary participation. Finally, the question of the electoral system, although there are more issues that I cannot deal with. This was the reason why a new Canary Islands Statute of Autonomy was not adopted eleven years ago. Today there is a proposal for a new electoral system that is not that of New Canarias or that of anyone else, it is that of all who have supported it, because if it does not become the proposal of all, if it becomes the proposal of one, it simply would not have been possible. It is a sure but insufficient proposal, but it is beginning to correct the democratic shortcomings, the serious lack of representation that the canarian electoral system has today. To conclude, I will make an appeal to the urgency of this process. If after all this work we do not get this statute to apply to the next autonomic and local elections, then we will feel deceived. We call for an urgent procedure for its subsequent action in the Senate and its subsequent return to the Parliament of the Canary Islands, so that it will give real time to make this very relevant statute possible. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u111	Thank you very much. Next, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u112	President, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Government of the Canary Islands and various colleagues from the Canary Islands who have travelled here, first of all I would like to thank the lawyer, Mr Peñaranda, for having suffered all this time, and also Angeles who has suffered us so that the vote has just been held. This week started as a very important week for the Canary Islands and ended up being a bitter sweet week, let's say so, for the Canary Islands, because the Canary Islands loses a great opportunity, especially loses the opportunity to look to the future. We are going almost two years ago and we will remember the willingness of Mr Ruano and Mr Lavandera to dialogue, who were here in this rostrum exposing this text. And I say why we are going to remember that, because they have completely hijacked the dialogue in the Commission. They have arrived with a closed pact, they have rejected 70% of the citizens' amendments, and it is not only that they have arrived with a closed pact, they have not concealed the least. In other words, the debate has been avoided. In the Canary Islands it is normal, since there is no opposition, since the People's Party and the Socialist Party are sold to the Canary Coalition, but that there is no dialogue here makes no sense. [[applause]] They agree that there should be no dialogue here and yet in the Canary Islands they do not agree to stop being the last ones in health or education. Things that have life! Who thinks of the canaries and who thinks of their navel? The opportunity to defend the right of all canaries has been missed, and within this sweet sour taste we will start with the lights, with that sweet part. Thanks to an amendment by the citizens - and it has cost us a lot - the outbursts on the Canary Islands are eliminated. And I say it has cost a lot because, unfortunately, it has not been a unanimous vote, because many still think that strangulation, even if it differentiates us from the rest of the citizens, is a right they have, and for us it is a privilege. So its elimination is one of the lights, of the good things that this text has. The inclusion of more social rights that begin to think about the canaries is another sweet taste, but not enough. The separation of the economic and fiscal regime from the autonomous financing system is another positive aspect of this text, and of course something that we believe is very positive, and it is that in a period of not more than three years the Electoral Law of the Canary Islands has to be developed and no longer a transitional additional provision. There is one part that is not light or shadow, and that is that we are going to say that in the grey range: the reform of the Electoral Law. Lack of ambition. The debate has been overturned. We have not been allowed to discuss the proposal, the citizens' amendment or other options, when we put on the table even a plan B. Does the current situation improve? Yes, and that is why we abstained in this reform of the Electoral Law, but it does not obey the reality of the Canary Islands, and above all what we do not agree is that things are not always solved by adding more, more and more Members; what needs to be done is that those who are working at once, and working for all the Canary Islands. That is why we believe that the reform of the Electoral Law improves substantially, but it is not enough. There has been no ambition and no desire to get to the bottom of the matter. [[Applauds]] Let me defend our amendments which emphasize the negative aspects. Regeneration. All the amendments established by Citizens in relation to the fight against corruption, regeneration and transparency, all have been thrown in bloc, absolutely all, well, especially thinking of the Canary Islands. Justice. All the citizens' amendments aimed at making the judiciary truly independent and giving rights to all the canaries, have all been drawn; they continue to want to create that council that coordinates the judiciary that, surprises of life, is not chosen by meritocracy, is not elected by the judges, is chosen by the politicians by finger. Let me not be misconstrued and that this is not supposed to be evidence of possible imputations that may be made on different charges on the islands, and that is why the judiciary in the Canary Islands is wanted to be controlled. I think it's a blushing shame. [[Applauds]] In addition, by using a family term, it seems to them to be stymied by the fact that justice is independent, and sincerely meaningless. Public television. Citizens' amendments to make television public, independent and plural were also not accepted. Let them explain to us from bipartisanism or some when they come up here with blows to the chest saying that public television has to be of all, it has to be plural and it has to represent us all, but if we go to the house, that no, that we don't want it independent, that we don't want it plural, that we want to eat it. That is denigrating the journalistic profession and, above all, denigrating the communication capacity that a public medium must have. And we are going with another negative part - all the amendments have also been tabled and we hope that they will be voted on again -: they continue to create and build a pharaonic infrastructure of the Canary Islands Administration. There are no more duplicities, there are also triplicities, or what is the same are creating their chiringuitos to place the friends, lest they lose electoral power and have nowhere to place them in positions of trust. [[Applauds]] Of course I do. My question is: how much would the Canary Islands save by simplifying the administration? How much money would the Canary Islands save, money that we could reverse in education and health, if all these chiringuitos were eliminated? As I say, it's a sour feeling. It improves the status of the text that came, but it is not a status thinking about the future, it is not enough, mostly it does not solve the real problems of the canaries. There are positive aspects, as I said, and that makes us abstain in the final resolution of this text, but we also express our opinion. The problem with the Canary Islands, as I said, is that we have politicians who only look at their navel, and when I say they only look at their navel I mean that they do not make texts that represent and work for all the citizens of the islands. I ask the People's Party and the Socialist Party to wake up at once, to stop watering the Canary Coalition, to stop there being no opposition in the Canary Islands, which seems to be a lie that a minority government takes out budgets without squandering, takes out any legislative process without squandering and without opposition. What are you doing? Solve and stop blocking. To conclude, I want to say the following: Citizens will enter the next autonomous and municipal Parliament of the Canary Islands. We have not looked the other way from outside, but I assure you that when we are inside the Canary Islands Parliament, because we are going in, we are not going to look the other way. [[The Lord]] But I also tell you something else: when Citizens rule the Canary Islands they will end the mangoes of a few, which instead of thinking about all the citizens of the islands, continue to think about their chiringuitos, their friends and their navel. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have started, saying it loud and clear: today is not an important day for the Canary Islands. If it will be for a small group, but certainly not for the social majority of the archipelago. If anyone has reason to be happy today - and that seems - are the parties of the 82nd regime in the Canary Islands, the same formations that feed without any kind of blush that harmful sense of insularism that destroys the sorority that has marked the history of the popular classes in the Canary Islands, and I say sorority because no one who knows our history escapes the cardinal role that canarian women have played in the reproduction of our ethical and cultural values over the centuries. The proposal we are debating here today, however, has nothing to do with our grandmothers and our mothers. The text is patriarchal, it obeys the pride of an elite so arrogant that it is self-proclaimed owners of the Canarian homeland at the same time - how not - that they have destroyed it, contaminated it and impoverished it. Perhaps we will hear more than once today that it is a historic day, and one will dare to say further that this text is a text of the new generation, of last generation, but they believe that none of these headlines, none, will objectively summarize reality, because, what does this new statute translate into? For in the continuity of the politicians who throughout our modern history have made us a deeply unequal, extremely dependent territory, and what is worse without democratic tools that put in the hands of the majority of the population the possibility of changing the course that the islands lead. That is why it is important to know that this joy, which they are going to express here today and have expressed here in an efusively and even imposed way the representatives of the Canary Coalition and the other parties that have ruled and co-governed the Canary Islands in the last forty years, hides a bitter reality, very bitter. I have to cut the speech short, because I had prepared more time and the president tells me it's seven minutes, so I'm moving on. The levels of poverty that are crushing our people are unbearable, almost half of our population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Obviously these parties will never admit it, because their way of making political fiction will not allow them to talk about that reality. In any case, we'll be the ones to put those data, those figures, that truth on the table. Why are you happy today if the statute really does not respond to that social majority? Well, I'll tell you. Because concerted education, for example, extraordinarily large on the islands, is going to continue to receive huge subsidies while - that is - there is no money - there is never - for help to eaters or for the purchase of textbooks for families without resources. They have also managed to have private health extend - as well as not - millionaire concerts with the Canarian Executive that have made us the third most dedicated community to the business of health, after Madrid and Catalonia, check out. In the meantime, in our public hospitals there are corridors that do not fit another stretcher, there is no longer a sick person, while the health counselor, Mr Baltar, master and master of paid medicine, consolidates the transfer of public resources to private companies for which he has worked. How they will not also be happy because they have managed to get the big developers and speculators to rub their hands when they see that access to housing on the islands will continue to be a profitable business and not a constitutional and statutory right. In the meantime, what about the Public Housing Company of the Canary Islands, Visocan? Well, I'll tell you. That it continues to defuse families without housing alternatives, that it drowns in a sea of labor demands after applying a criminal ERE and an ignominious wage cut, and on top of it it has to compensate its former directors, who as some know well those are of free designation and have come to charge for occupying that post the frill of 100,000 euros per year. The sad thing, the really sad thing today is that those responsible for the Canary Coalition, the People's Party, the Socialist Party and New Canarias have come up to this rostrum to talk to our people about progress, economic and social development, when they don't. There is not a single mention in that text of the objective of increasing our levels of food and energy sovereignty. You have blocked any possibility of including in our statute clauses that make possible the change in the productive model that our economy needs as an even-handed May to grow in an equitable and sustainable way. As far as we can see, the rights of our people must continue to be subordinated to those of the large food-importing companies and, of course, to those of the electricity companies alone, which will continue to produce energy in our land, burning oil and spitting it in the atmosphere while the gas is being put into effect in some volcanic islands, ladies and gentlemen, which record more than 1500 earthquakes a year. We have said it a thousand times and we will repeat it to satiety: our sea, our soil, our air, our sun, are a real treasure, but this statute is not designed for sustainability either. And I'll tell you why? Because economic powers simply do not care, as they do not want those economic powers to green our field, to save our environment from urban depredation and to keep our seas clean. They define us - Mrs Oramas has just defined us, in addition to a grandiose way - in that text that they want to approve as a remote and fragmented territory. Away from who? Fragmented about what? As far as we know, the Canary Islands is an island and Atlantic territory, like Madeira, the Azores, Cape Verde, the British Islands, Iceland, the Antilles, and I really can't imagine its leaders defending as a victimist their geographical location and their role in the world. Is that the canary differential fact for you, the political instrumentalization of the topics that have defined our historical colonialism in Madrid and Brussels? Our island country is a transmarine territory, forged from an enviable mixture of words and blood, and with an unquestionable extroversion that has led us to go through the three continental corners that bathe our ocean. We are a proudly inherited people of the courage of the Canarian indigenous people, of course, but also of the efforts of the many European, African, American, Asian people who have come to our shores with the humble and beautiful purpose of living in dignity. It is very sad that the passionate consular character of the culture and history of our archipelago is reduced by you to a preamble like that of this statute. If this is the vision you have of our past, it makes you think about what you want to transform the future. The lack of democracy in the Canary Islands is alarming and, in the absence of a pseudo-democratic electoral system, this statute includes measures such as the authorization of the autonomous presidency so that it can govern the archipelago by decree-law. I do not want to imagine a minority government, like Mr Clavijo's current one, with the possibility of agreeing decree-laws without Parliament. I'm finishing up, President. We have many reasons to vote but not for this text of the statute: the archipelagic principle, the demand to overcome the framework of work, the declaration of the Canary Islands as a territory of peace; all these amendments were rejected from the point of view, they did not want to hear about all these issues. We are going to vote that no and we are going to do it by appealing to responsibility - I finish, President, allow me thirty seconds - and to the commitment that we have signed with the citizens of the Canary Islands and of the whole state, which does not allow us to flinch in the defense in excess of a political project with which we have presented ourselves to the elections both here and in the Canary Islands. This is not the status of the social majority of the Canary Islands, it is not. We believe in another possible Canary Islands and in another way to govern our land. Our archipelago is much more than you have written in this poor and continuous proposal to change our status, and until we have enough strength to shape the reality in which it must become our Constitution we will say that no to those who still want to wreck our dream of living in islands that are never again or ever more silenced. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pita. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u116	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the proposal for reform of the Canary Islands Statute after almost thirty-six years and after the adoption of its opinion in the Constitutional Commission, in the light of the report prepared by the presentation. We are now debating it in plenary, after some failed attempts at reform in past legislatures. Finally, it seems to be coming to an end, not so much to establish a particular political, institutional and regulatory regime for the Canary Islands as to update it. The Canary Islands has always had a unique identity since its conquest and incorporation into the Crown of Castile, with a manifestation in a particular regulatory, administrative-institutional and economic-fiscal regime because of its geographical circumstances of remoteness and insularity and its late incorporation into the Crown of Castile as well as a cultural reality quite different from that crown. The particular regime of the Canary Islands also becomes the link with America and, more recently, with the North African Atlantic. In short, the proposal to reform the Canary Islands Statute that we are debating today aims, according to its explanatory statement, to better address the immediate and future challenges facing Canary society in a world of globalized economy, which is called glocalization, without forgetting the consolidation of the welfare state. Economic development is not desirable without development and social well-being, it is not possible to achieve a competitive society and social cohesion, also providing for institutions that allow for more active participation of citizens and the principles of transparency and effectiveness, expanding their competitive acquis, consolidating their economic and fiscal regime and giving a new delimitation to their space sphere, which includes the sea between the islands of the archipelago as an element of self-representation of the archipelago, for the purpose of visualizing itself as a unity in its symbolic and political-institutional representation. Finally, I would like to wish our Canary friends that this text, when it arrives at a good port - if they consider it so - will help them navigate in a favorable way in the uncertainty of living and living together. Finally, I would like to point out that during the procedure of this draft in this House I would like to point out that it is nothing other than to have amended the text referred to by the Canarian legislative assembly in matters of political choice and without them constituting alleged constitutional violations, confusing that since the statutes are approved by an organic law of the Courts they can deal with it with the same degree of disposition as they do with any proposal or draft law and ignoring the operative principle that empowers the autonomous legislative assemblies to acquire their basic institutional norm; a derivative that we do not share and that has a manifestation throughout much of the draft statute that we are dealing with today. It is only necessary to contrast the text that came into this House and that which we are voting on today, whose differences are seen through the boldness of the text contained in the supporting documentation for this plenary session. These changes affect aspects as substantial as the rights and duties or the guiding principles of the policies of the Canarian public authorities, also their institutions and areas of action and countless aspects in which I will not delay any longer; not without mentioning above that substantial aspects of the canarian electoral system or regime have also been modified in their handling in this House. I would like to cite as an example the changes made in the total number of seats in the Canarian Parliament or in the number of seats in each constituency or in the allocation of seats to an autonomous constituency when the decision of the Canarian Parliament was to defer it on a transitional basis, where appropriate, to the future canarian electoral law provided for in Article 37 and which is required, as a novelty also introduced by this House, to be approved by the Canarian Parliament before three years have elapsed since the publication of the statute. We do not generally share this course of action of this House in dealing with the processing and approval of the draft of a basic institutional norm of an autonomous community, because autonomy is also to decide how to order their coexistence through their status, unless this is incompatible with the constitutional framework. In the rest of the cases, we understand that there are no interferences in their self-disposition. However, in general terms, supported by a concrete reality, its particular assessment in the case before us will be the responsibility of the institutions and citizens of the Canary Islands, and our vote will not prevent it. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Socialist Group, Mr Franquis Vera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u118	Thank you very much, President. I want my first words to welcome the representatives and institutions of the Canary Islands, its President and the representative of the Cabildo de Gran Canaria to accompany us in today's debate. Almost two years ago, in this same debate, when we took into account the autonomous status of the Canary Islands proposed by the Parliament of the Canary Islands, I raised my doubts as to whether this debate was going to be a historic debate for the Canary Islands, and raised my doubts because the debate that had taken place ten years ago was repeated. Almost two years later I dare say that today is a historic debate for the Canary Islands, but more than one day I would say it is a historic week for our community. We started the week by approving the economic and fiscal regime, which represents that for the Canary Islands, and today we end the week by approving - because there are going to be enough votes - the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy, which is a statute that we have always intended to be the framework for the coexistence of all the Canary Islands, of the majority of the Canary Islands. That has been the goal that we Socialists have always wanted. I would like to recall that this is a document that comes from a long way and in which many people and many institutions have worked for a long time and that the basis of this document was already discussed in this Congress in 2006. That is why I want to remember - because I have images, memories of interventions, of public statements by political leaders and those responsible, of social and economic actors - the history of this document and I want to focus it fundamentally on the colleague who came here twelve years ago to represent, on behalf of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, this document, which is my colleague, who is already deceased, Juan Carlos Alemán. Wherever it is, I am convinced that today will be a day on which much effort and work will be filled that for many years developed many generations in the Canary Islands, which were able to take us to this document today. The fundamental thing about this document is that it's not a party, it's not, and the mistake is that some people try to say that this has the wedge or seal of a party. The victory of this document means that it is a document approved or supported by most parties in this House. I would like to remind you that more than 65% of the parties representing this House, therefore, of Spanish society, are going to approve this document in parallel. And I would like to recall that this document will be supported by the sum of 80% of the political forces representing the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Therefore - I do not know how to define it - someone dares say that this document seems to be the agreement of some who represent in the Canary Islands very little. I insist: 75% of this Parliament and 80% of the Parliament of the Canary Islands. The Socialists have always come to this debate with the desire to seek agreement; we believe that a document of this nature must have the best support. A law of this nature, which has a lot of power, the more citizen support it has, the better, and I think that we have achieved among all that this is so, that it has enough support in this Congress and in the Parliament of the Canary Islands to be filled - we have heard it for many years, for a very long time - phrases and objectives that had to be not only in the Economic and Fiscal Regime, but also in this document, which fortunately becomes reality today. The Socialists have tried to join most of the political forces because, I insist, it is important that a document of this nature has the greatest possible support. But unfortunately it has not been so, we have not been able to count on the almost absolute majority of the House, with some because they do not believe in an agreement, because they believe that adding to what the essence of politics means, which is to vote on an agreement - as it is today - is weak, they believe that they lose their political identity and are not in favour of agreeing, of committing themselves to a society like the Canary Islands in seeking the greatest possible framework of coexistence. And the others because they don't believe in the statute. They do not believe; they believe that the weakness of this document is the weakness of the autonomous state and do not believe in the statute, and we have seen it here. Look, in the Canary Islands, in addition to Spanish, there are graceful, palm trees, rabbit trees, wholesalers, grancanaries, young people, herreans, gomers; a community as a whole committed, with a historically committed vocation to belong to this common, plural project, which is Spain. And he's never been in that doubt, ever. That is why I am surprised how some are trying to move that what has been discussed here, what has been agreed here, has little to do with the concerns of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. Look, they draw a reality that has nothing to do with what is happening or with the debate that took place in the Commission or in the presentation, absolutely nothing to do with it. Some will vote against this document, when their proposals represent only 20% of the document as a whole. And others are going to abstain when their amendments represent only 30% of this document. You, when you're not part of an agreement, accuse others of clamping. And they didn't understand the message of Canarian society, they didn't understand it. You know why? Because they are not part of the history of the autonomous community, because they do not know what has been discussed and what each of the agreements that have been adopted here in the future of the Canary Islands represent. We have all succeeded in building our community on values such as equality, solidarity, freedom, progress, social justice, which are covered by this statute. There is an important catalogue of citizens' rights and duties that did not have our status. Remember that the current statute has only 65 articles, and what is being proposed to this plenary today will have 201 articles. Therefore, we cannot deny what we have achieved over the past two years, an ambitious task of harmonizing our autonomous community, our self-government, our ability to bring the Canary Islands closer to the Autonomous Community, which the problems are decided in the Canary Islands. Of course we have solved a historical deficit issue of our community that is the electoral system of the Canary Islands. The electoral system in the Canary Islands will be decided by the Parliament of the Canary Islands. That no one has any doubts. That is true, on the basis of this statute: that it be more democratic, more proportional, that the final photo of the Parliament of the Canary Islands better represents the Canary Islands society. Because people do not finish understanding how the president of the Canary Islands government in the last twelve years has not been the most voted by Canarian society. And we want to change this here because it is in the Canary Islands Statute. Therefore, from now on, the future government of the Canary Islands will have three years to change the electoral law and will be done in the Canary Islands, it will be done in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, which is where these laws should be made. It is not going to happen what has happened during thirty-six years of history of the Canary Islands, because those who proclaim themselves nationalists and who only believe in the Canary Islands refused to have an electoral law in the autonomous community itself, there in the Canary Islands. The Socialists have always defended it, from the very beginning, since 2006, in accordance with this statute. We defend it in 2006, in 2007, in 2015 and we defend it again. We are extremely pleased that this document, which includes the support of other political forces, mainly the People's Party, which is incorporated into the consensus that we have reached in the work on paper, strengthens, justifies and expands the document that we want to be, I insist, an instrument of coexistence in our Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. I ended up, President, as I ended up in the Constitutional Commission. This document would not have been the same without the knowledge, experience and credit of my colleague Gregory Chamber. Mr Gregorio has been the only Member of the House who was not a canary, but his wisdom and contribution, which he has also made with absolute generosity, I would like to record in this plenary as I did in the Commission and I would like to thank him personally on behalf of my own group, on behalf of the canary socialists and on behalf of the majority of Canarian society, that when they read this document they will see that more than one of them will be portrayed here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Franquis. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Hernández Bento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u120	President, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Government of the Canary Islands, I would like to begin by thanking you; thanks to the lawyer, José Luis Peña Aranda, for his availability, thanks to all the colleagues in the presentation, to Mr Chamber especially, and to Mrs Pita also because, although I do not share her dark and almost bitter vision of my islands, I have to thank you for your work and your efforts to achieve the greatest possible consensus. We have worked, from my point of view, from responsibility, aware that there were many expectations generated, but also many doubts, why not say so, and distrust. There were a lot of people who thought we weren't going to be able to get here, but here we are and we've overcome all those obstacles. I assure you that for Pablo Matos, for Guillermo Mariscal and for myself it has been a privilege to be able to do so on behalf of the People's Group. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to say this in a clear and calm way, today is an important day for the Canary Islands and it is because a statute of autonomy is not just any rule, it is the rule, the rule that regulates the coexistence of the Canary Islands in our territory, in our islands. It recognizes and protects our constitutional rights and freedoms and our particular form of self-government. How is this not going to be a big day? [[The lady]] This reform proposal was endorsed in the Parliament of the Canary Islands by two political groups, the Canary Coalition and the Socialist Group, and the People's Group at that time did not join the agreement, but since the consideration of the House we have worked intensively and the truth is that today we are in a position to show our support for this new statute and thus join the consensus that has been reached on the statute as a common political project of all the Canaries. This is the clear vocation of any status of autonomy. We have understood this and made an effort in two ways: seeking balance and trying to respect the will emanating from the Parliament of the Canary Islands, but also incorporating all those aspects that improve the text. And we have done so, even if some do not want to recognize it today, from dialogue, seeking understanding and agreement and we have - I assure you - reached the maximum of possible consensus. In the People's Parliamentary Group we have it clear: the canaries, with this new statute, we win. We are convinced that it is the appropriate tool that will enable our archipelago to achieve greater levels of economic and social development. An archipelago such as the Canary Islands, due to its exceptional geographical location, constitutes a unique territory. Of course, it is marked, by the remoteness of the peninsular territory, by insularity and also by its Atlantic character. Throughout history there have been many rules that have recognized it and given us a status of their own, since the incorporation - someone here recalled - to the Courts of Castile. Singularity, remoteness, insularity, Atlanticity and ultra-perificity have marked our history, our character, and they will continue to do so. We know that in the People's Group, and that is why we are taking a step further today in recognizing our uniqueness. It is necessary for the public authorities, within their competence, to take this into account when adapting their laws and policies. The Canaries won with this status. This statute reinforces the rights of canaries, of all, of the elderly, of minors, of persons with disabilities, of dependents. In the People's Group we have understood this and therefore support that the policy promoted by the Canarian public authorities is a guarantee of freedom, transparency, good governance, solidarity, citizen participation, accessibility, equality, economic, social and territorial cohesion of our archipelago. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the Canary Islands wins with this new status Gana La Graciosa, which is recognized as the eighth island. We, in the People's Party, have also understood the will of the Canaries to be able to participate in what concerns the islands, to have us in those competences that, even if they are state, affect us as a result of our singularities. Without prejudice to the exclusive competence of the State, we support the establishment of cooperation measures and agreements between the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands and the State. Certainly - practically all those who have spoken before me have spoken about this - there are two important aspects here: the electoral regime and the economic and fiscal regime. With regard to the electoral regime, the position of the People's Group has been very clear here and also there in the Canary Islands. We would have liked to see an agreement reached by the Canarian Parliament. This has always been our position, but it has not been possible; we have tried but it has not been possible. That is why we have joined the proposal, which without being ours - it is not ours, it is not ours - it is the one that has achieved the greatest possible consensus, which reduces the electoral peaks, the autonomous constituency is incorporated, all of this with the aim of improving proportionality in favour of the most populated islands and without subtracting deputies from any island. We also understand that this is not the desirable form and therefore we also support the establishment of a deadline for the Canary Islands Parliament to draw up the law in three years' time. With regard to the REF, this week's amendment was approved in the Finance Committee and its principles have been strengthened in this way, which are the result of our recognition as an ultraperipheral region. And these principles are the ones that guarantee that remoteness, insularity and all structural limitations, because my archipelago has them, must be compensated through specific policies. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands regime is not a privilege of any kind; it is the guarantee that the Canary Islands are equal. We don't want to be any more, but we don't want to be any less than the rest of the Spaniards. It therefore puts us on an equal footing and gives us the same opportunities as the rest of the Spaniards. That is why we in the People's Party believe that it is fair that all the additional items are that, additional, and therefore do not compete in the autonomous financing system. I finish and do it by showing the satisfaction of my group, of the People's Group, also mine as a canary and I am sure that of the rest of my fellow canaries, because by joining this draft reform of the statute we have made it possible. And this new statute, no doubt, wins when it adds up; adding to the Popular Group wins, but above all those who win are the canaries. Canaries win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u121	Thank you very much. ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONFERENCE OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004: - No, no, no, ELECTION OF A DEPUTATED LORD, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u122	We then turn to the last item on the agenda, on the election of a Member, in accordance with the third item of the resolution of the President of the Congress of Deputies on official secrets of 11 May 2004. The deputy proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress is Dolors Montserrat Montserrat. This item will be put to the vote after the other votes scheduled for today. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u123	We shall proceed to the votes. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we voted on Royal Decree-Law 8/2018 of 3 August, amending Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 of 19 December, which regulates the Activation Programme for Employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 plus 5 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 332 plus 5 telematics votes, 337; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u124	It's validated. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 9/2018, OF 3 AUGUST, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE STATE COVENANT AGAINST GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 130/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u125	We move, ladies and gentlemen, to the Royal Decree-Law 9/2018 of 3 August of urgent measures for the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 5 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 335 plus 5 telematics votes, 340; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u126	It's validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 plus 5 telematics votes, 343; 338 plus 4 telematics votes, 342; against 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u127	It is dealt with by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 10/2018, OF 24 AUGUST, AMENDING LAW 52/2007, OF 26 DECEMBER, RECOGNISING AND ENLARGING LAWS AND ESTABLISHING MEASURES FOR WHOM HAVE PAID PERSECUTION OR VIOLENCE DURING CIVIL WAR AND DECADE. [[File number 130/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u128	We turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the Royal Decree-Law 10/2018 of 24 August, amending Law 52/2007 of 26 December, which recognizes and extends rights and establishes measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 plus 5 telematics votes, 343; 172 plus 4 telematics votes, 176; against, 2; abstentions, 164 plus 1 telematics vote, 165.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u129	It's validated. [[Prolonged applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 5 telematics votes, 342; 203 plus 5 telematics votes, 208; against, 6; abstentions, 128.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u130	It will therefore be dealt with by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the proposal to reform the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. Firstly, we are going to vote on the amendments by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 91 against, 236 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u132	It's rejected. Amendment 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 30 against, 295 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u133	It's rejected. Amendments 54 to 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 30 against, 296 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u134	They're rejected. Amendment 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 91 against, 236 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u135	It's rejected. Amendment 98. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 31 against, 297 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u136	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 31 against, 297 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u137	They're rejected. We will vote on the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. We are voting in bloc on the amendments tabled by that group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 64 against, 264 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u138	They're rejected. We shall now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the individual votes. Special vote by the Joint Parliamentary Group on Rule 37(2)(b). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 96 against, 230 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u139	It's rejected. Private vote by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on article 37.2 (b). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 91 against, 235 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u140	It's rejected. Rest of the Joint Parliamentary Group's particular vote on Rule 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 108 against, 219 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u141	It's rejected. Special vote by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the first transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 13 against, 314 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u142	It's rejected. We shall vote on the Commission's opinion. Firstly, we shall vote on Articles 42, 44, 46, 56 to 58, 75, 78, 79, 82, 149 and 163. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 234 against, 94 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u143	They are approved. Transitional provision for that opinion first. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 282 against, 15 abstentions, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u144	It's approved. Rest of the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 260 against, 64 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u145	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote as a whole on the proposal to reform the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy for being organic. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 5 telematics votes, 341; 237; against 60 plus 4 telematics votes, 64; abstentions, 39 plus 1 telematics vote, 40.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u147	Accordingly, the proposal for the reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy was approved. Thank you so much. ELECTION OF DEPUTATES, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - No, no, no, ELECTION OF A DEPUTATED LORD, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTATES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS, OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u148	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the election of deputies, in accordance with the third point of the resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on official secrets of 11 May 2004. We shall proceed to the election by ballot, in accordance with Rule 205 of the Rules of Procedure, and the Member shall be elected by a three-fifths majority, that is to say, 210 votes. Each deputy will write a name on his or her ballot. I remind you that there will be no ballot papers containing more than one name or this does not correspond to a Member of the People's Group in Congress. The deputy proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress is Dolors Montserrat Montserrat. In this vote five telematic votes have been cast: by dona Irene María Montero Gil, by dona María Auxiliadora Honorato Chulián, by don Alberto Garzón Espinosa, by don Miguel Ángel Bustamante Martín and by don Rodrigo Gómez García, who I will proceed to introduce in the ballot box. I ask the Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. The secretary-generals of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u149	Hasn't any honourable Member been called to vote? [[Denial]] We're starting the count. Scrutiny begins. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-13-CD180913.u150	The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour of Dolors Montserrat, 334; 3. Therefore, having obtained more than three fifths of the votes of the members of the House, Mrs Dolors Montserrat Montserrat has been elected for the purposes of the Presidency resolution of 11 May 2004. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was two and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
