ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the attendance, at our own request, of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, to report on the European Council to be held on 28 and 29 June 2018, which will be dealt with jointly with the request for the President of the Government to appear at the plenary session of the House, requested by Mrs Montero Gil and seventy Members, to report on the position to be taken by the Government of Spain on the various matters to be dealt with at the European Council meeting in Brussels on 28 and 29 June 2018. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I appear before this House to report - as the President of Congress has rightly said - on the European Council in Brussels on 28 and 29 June. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it is customary for the presence of the President of the Government in Congress to take place after the holding of each European Council to account for the agreements reached and to offer a comprehensive synthesis of the issues dealt with. This is the first European Council I have the honour to address as President of the Government, and through this request to appear, the Government I chair wants to move two relevant messages. Firstly, that this Government understands as its own and inescapable mandate to listen to all parliamentary groups prior to the holding of the European Councils; that is, I am appearing to present a political position but also and fundamentally to listen to all the political forces represented in this House. Secondly, this European Council, because of the importance and nature of the issues to be dealt with, makes it more necessary than ever to have the voice of Parliament. That is the will with which I stand before this House today, to open a stage of dialogue that strengthens Spain's position in the face of the challenges that require consensus and agreement as broad as we can articulate in this House, and to do so always acting in defence of the general interests of our country based on an idea that considers the new fundamental Government, and that is to understand European affairs from the perspective of internal policy rather than from foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this European Council addresses crucial issues for the Union, for its future design, but also for a present that requires responses, decision-making and a course consistent with the values that have given impetus to the European project throughout its history. It is precisely these values that are being questioned today in many places on the continent, unfortunately, to feed a growing Europhobic message. A message that seeks to reverse the clock of history and threaten some of the fundamental freedoms that form part of the core of the process of European integration, such as the very value of the Schengen agreements. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, is at a crossroads. We know that the nature of global threats and challenges in an interdependent, digital economy requires global alternatives and solutions. We also know that the optimal level of response to these challenges in areas such as climate change, security, terrorism, economic crises or migration crises is not in the field of the false security of the nation-state and the old borders - as some claim to see - but in supranational, supra-state bodies such as the Union itself, the most ambitious integration project in history. A project that has had the decisive support of Spain since its accession to the former European Economic Community more than three decades ago. Many wonder why Euroscepticism has never finished rooting deep in our country, as it is in other countries of the European Union. It was not even so - if I may say so - in the hardest part of the economic crisis, that in many other states it generated a growing rejection of the European institutions, while in our country it did not cause a significant erosion - it did, but not significant - of the European feeling. Undoubtedly, one of the answers to this paradox is given by the fact that for us, for Spain, Europe has always meant much more than a common market, with the abolition of tariffs, of freedoms, of the movement of goods and goods. Europe for Spain meant, in historical terms, democracy, freedom, human rights, the rule of law and the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, this precision has great symbolic value, in our view, at the present time, because the temporary coincidence between the restoration of democracy in our country and the negotiations to place our country in the Europe of which it has always longed to be a part sums up the strength of our Europeanist sentiment as a country; a Europeanism to which this Government will serve with the certainty of representing in it the wishes and desires of the vast majority of men and women of our country, above, I would dare say, of ideological preferences and party affinities. Ladies and gentlemen, this European Council revolves around five major issues: the first, migration; the second, work, growth and competitiveness; the third, security and defence; the fourth, innovation; and the fifth, which is undoubtedly important, the financial and multiannual framework. First of all, I would like to refer to the debate on migration policy which will take place in the Council. Europe is facing an indefatigable challenge that requires, like no other, the overall vision and involvement of the whole of the European Union. In no other area like this can it be stated more clearly that unilateral and exclusively national responses are doomed to failure. There are dangerous incentives for such responses to be articulated from such unilaterality, as we have seen in recent weeks, thinking more about internal, domestic dynamics than on the whole. They are the incentives that lead to internal border controls as a wrong solution to a major challenge and that involve questioning one of the four fundamental freedoms of the European project, such as the movement of people across the territory of the Member States. There are no shortcuts since the unilateral action of States to deal precisely with a phenomenon that exceeds the capacity and scope of manoeuvre, as I have said before, of State actors. There are no shortcuts, lack of empathy and demagogic attitudes left to face a phenomenon whose entity grows if we enter into the detail of the figures. Empathy to understand that migration challenges do not affect the country of entry exclusively at a certain time, whether on the eastern route of the Union, in the eastern, central or western Mediterranean, but to assume as their own the consequences of a phenomenon capable of awakening old ghosts who thought they were forgotten in our societies. On a relatively close demographic horizon, projections by international agencies reveal that the population of the African continent will grow to nearly 2400 million human beings by 2050. On the contrary, the population born on the European continent will decrease slightly or stagnate around 700 million by that year too. The southern border of Europe around the Mediterranean Sea is becoming the scene of a humanitarian tragedy that requires responses and coordinated action by the European Union as a whole. On the north shore the prosperity of European societies exerts as a powerful magnet that attracts hundreds of thousands of human beings willing to risk their own lives. Some flee from war, others from misery, all seek opportunities that deny them their own country of birth. The common denominator is the fact that the 19 countries with the lowest human development index are in Africa. As advanced democracies, we have an obligation to act in the face of the challenge under the impetus of respect for human rights and the dignity of the individual. They are two axes that guide the responses of this Government and mark the road map of our response to a humanitarian alarm that Spain cannot remain and does not remain impassive. This is what international actors such important to this Government as UNHCR or the International Organization for Migration, who have been alerting for years of the tragedy facing the European continent on its own borders, on its own shores, are demanding. In this sense, on 17 June the Government of Spain decided to open the port of Valencia to welcome the people aboard the ship Aquarius. It was an exceptional decision made for reasons of solidarity and the most elementary humanity to care for 630 human beings on a drifting ship with 140 minors among their crew members, most of them unaccompanied minors. I have publicly stated in recent days that this decision was, above all, a wake-up call, a wake-up call in the middle of the silence of those who decide to look away as if the problem were not their concern, and it is. We are faced with a phenomenon of European scope, which requires concerted European action and active competition from all Member States, without geography conditioning the response depending on whether or not it is an external border. In this regard, and with regard to the arrival of the ship Aquarius, I would first like to express my gratitude to the French Government, which expressed its willingness to welcome persons on board the ship who would like to settle in France. At the moment there are 274 people who have already expressed their intention to go to France. I would also like to extend this thanks to those who took part in an exemplary reception device in the face of a humanitarian emergency that could become a catastrophe further at the gates of Europe: NGOs - in particular the Red Cross -, the Civil Guard, the National Police, translators, the staff of the Health Department of the Generalitat of Valencia; all of them were part of a device to which I expressly reiterate today my sincere gratitude. [[Applauds]] A feeling that I want to extend to local and autonomous governments, of all political parties, who showed their willingness to mobilize resources and embody the best of this country, Spain which embodies solidarity in its maximum expression. Ladies and gentlemen, migratory flows vary according to multiple variables. On the Central Mediterranean route, for example, starting with this traditional route, the figure in the first six months of the year is 77 % lower than in the same period of the previous year. On the contrary, in ours, the Western Mediterranean, the trend in 2018 indicates an increase of 64% in migratory flows over the same period of 2017. This is important because we are talking about a year, this last year, 2017, in which irregular entries already suffered from an increase of 101% compared to 2016 and, in the same way, on the routes of the Eastern Mediterranean, the increase figures were 134% in 2018 compared to the same period of the previous year. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, wishes to make use of its own experience in dealing with the phenomenon of migration in this Council. It is an experience that starts from what we experienced in the past decade, from 2004 to 2006, when our country experienced a crisis of this nature that highlighted the value of the external dimension of this phenomenon and our own capacity to respond. A response that took on the obvious need to promote dialogue with transit countries but also, and very specifically, with countries of origin. Dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is fundamental to achieving agreement and collaboration in return policies and part of the need to enhance sustained financial cooperation in the long term with the issuing countries, but also - and this is what I would like to stress - of cooperation in the short term with training measures for border control and the unbridled fight against the business of mafia and human trafficking organisations. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship with Morocco is strategic for our country. Morocco has, in the opinion of this Government, worked effectively with Spain and has contributed decisively to minimizing the impact of the humanitarian drama that it has been and can be even greater than what we have seen on our shores over the past few months. In this regard, the Government considers it crucial to strengthen the financing of the external dimension of migration policy within the multiannual financial framework and therefore welcomes the interest of this framework in border management, within the framework of Frontex, and migration, up to the threshold of EUR 34.9 billion in the period 2021-2027, which is included in the proposal submitted by the Commission. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that after yesterday's talks with Chancellor Merkel and also with the President of the French Republic, Spain will also obtain more economic resources to strengthen this bilateral dialogue with the countries of origin and the countries of transit. In the area of secondary transit movements between Member States, we are fully aware of the difficulties faced by countries that have endured severe pressure, as is the case with Germany during the 2015 migration crisis. I must announce to you that Spain will also assume its responsibilities in this area from a point of view, I stress again, which prevents us from assuming that the problems of a Member State are alien to us. It is crucial to establish this perspective in order to prevent migration from dividing and destabilising the Union; to understand the problems of others as their own is the empathy to which I referred at the beginning of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is fully aware and committed to the defence of the right of asylum and to the guarantees of those who need international protection. In this regard, I would like to express the commitment of the Government of Spain to the need to address the reform of the common European asylum system, but always - and this is the objective, the highest principle I want to share with you - I insist on the assumption that irregular migration requires treatment other than that of refugees. Without a doubt, the key in this area is to strike the necessary balance between responsibility and solidarity. Responsibility in dealing with a matter that can be deeply divisive in many countries and can damage the validity of the European project, and solidarity in dealing with the human dramas underlying it from the primacy of the values that support the idea of Europe. I would therefore like to reiterate this Government's support for resettlement as an orderly route for the arrival of people in need of international protection, taking on the commitments made in this area in the relocation of refugees arriving in the European Union, mainly through Greece and Italy, in the great migratory crisis of 2014 and 2016. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Spain will defend a position based on the validity of the same values to which it appealed at the beginning of my speech, values without which Europe would not recognize itself. Only in this way can we contribute to curbing the virus of which movements are feeding themselves committed to turning back the clock of history; movements, ladies and gentlemen, which not only divide whole societies, but betray the very memory of our continent, which just four generations ago distributed around the world to millions of Europeans, including 1,700,000 compatriots who left Spain, many, as today, fleeing political persecution and many more simply fleeing poverty or hunger. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to another important issue also for the whole of the European Union and for our country, such as economic and monetary union, the future design, in short, of the Union. You know as well as I do that the economic crisis, which began in a decade just this year, revealed serious failures in the functioning of economic and monetary union; failures that had enormous costs in terms of growth, employment, social cohesion and territorial cohesion. Over the years, it has become clear that the euro lacked the necessary or sufficient mechanisms to support the countries most exposed to the great asymmetrical impacts of economic crises on monetary unions. That is why, more than for any other reason, we are obliged to learn from experience and to complete the reform of the euro area. During the years of response to the crisis, action has been taken to tackle symptoms of a disease that has wreaked havoc on our economies. What this is about now, ladies and gentlemen, is to move forward in the fight against causes to avoid unwanted scenarios in the future. If we miss this opportunity in the midst of a favourable economic cycle, we will be acting negligently in addressing the shortcomings of an incomplete architecture in the field of economic and monetary union. It must be recognized that progress has been made in recent years and recognized by the Government. The launch - even if, in our opinion, tibialy - of the banking union, with centralized and strengthened supervision of banks and orderly resolution mechanisms with support from funds at European level, is a good proof of this. We also have the European Financial Stability Mechanism, which is capable of providing financial assistance to countries at times of difficulty, but, as I have told you before, much remains to be done. This government is convinced that there is a need to articulate consensus to strengthen the euro because this depends on the strength of the European project. As I have pointed out with regard to migration policy, the essential equation is part of identical premises: responsibility and solidarity. Responsibility for developing economic policies based on respect for the rules we have agreed, including the fulfilment of our fiscal consolidation commitments - which I would like to underline at this session - and responsibility also for controlling the risks of the financial sector from the experience of past mistakes and the need to learn lessons for the future. Responsibility, but also solidarity; solidarity understood as an essential principle of the project of European construction not only from the moral point of view but as an investment of the future in convergence and in social and economic cohesion. In this respect, the position that the Government will defend - and that is already defending, in fact, the whole of ministers and ministers in the European Council - is based on strengthening solidarity within the euro area. A fiscal pillar for the euro needs to be put in place with a budget to stabilize the economy in times of crisis and to incorporate mechanisms to support the poorest countries in the eurozone. On this point, I would like to refer to the proposals put forward by the two governments, the French and the German, which, in our view, are interesting and which are a very timely starting point for bringing about and advancing this economic and monetary union. In particular, the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, will promote discussions on the launch of the European unemployment fund. We cannot allow Euroscepticism to become strong in the territory of frustrations over the inability to give a response from the European project. The political rearming of the European narrative also means giving the European Union a relevant role in this area linked to unemployment and constitutes an investment in political and institutional stability capable of cohering our societies and reducing the risks of future economic crises. Progress in the efficiency of economic and monetary union is a guarantee of stability. Europe cannot be an economic giant walking slowly. We therefore need to move forward in that fiscal pillar to strengthen the message that the union is not built by looking at the rearview mirror but at the front. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, it is a priority - and we have spoken about it on many occasions in this House - for Spain to complete the banking union. It is true that there are very advanced proposals to strengthen the Resolution Fund with a back-up mechanism so that we can always be sure that we have enough European funds to guarantee orderly banking solutions, which is the same philosophy that rests on the proposal to create the European Deposit Insurance Scheme that provides European funds to ensure savings from bank deposits in times of crisis. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak, even briefly, about security and defence, another matter to be dealt with at this European Council. In this regard, I would first like to say that Spain remains firmly committed to the implementation of permanent structured cooperation. The development of the projects contained in this initiative should not be seen as an end in itself, but as one of the different means to be able to fulfil the commitments made in the December 2017 European Council decision. A good example of this is the question of military mobility, which will be one of the most relevant issues in this section that will be discussed in the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has always supported the construction - you know - of a Europe of defence; we have done so by different governments of different political colours. This Government will continue to do so from the point of view of cooperation between NATO and the European Union, an essential aspect in the debate on burden sharing that has also been discussed in this House and that is calling for NATO. We share the need to continue deepening the fight against hybrid threats, strengthening the common security and civil defence policy with the use of the European Gendarmerie Force in civilian missions, especially useful in crisis management. Fourthly, I would like to talk to you about innovation, which is going to be another relevant issue at this European Council. I would like to begin by reiterating the Government's willingness to delve into something about what we have talked about, and much, over the past few years, which is the digital single market. It is a question of moving from the mere market for digital products and services to addressing all the implications of the digitalisation of the economy and society, which are undoubtedly having a huge impact on employment. Within the framework of the Digital Single Market strategy, we need to provide regulatory responses to the needs of businesses and citizens who want to take advantage of innovative business models. In this regard, the deployment of 5G technology is an opportunity for Europe to regain technological leadership, taking as a starting point the need for networks to reach the entire territory and there are no gaps in inequality in this area. This is a fundamental issue for our country because we are among the countries that suffer from that silent disease called depopulation and which we need to alter. Ladies and gentlemen, data and their exploitation are also a new economic resource to which we have to attach importance from public institutions. For this resource to have economic value, innovators are needed to discover ways to gain efficiency or provide new products and services from this data, but at the same time people must allow information that is very related to their daily lives and privacy to be accessible, so the economic value generated must reward both groups from a fundamental concept to avoid abuses, which is balance. Support for disruptive innovations must be one of the priorities of Europe's new research and innovation policies, but this government believes that support from European policies to innovative enterprises must be extended to all kinds of innovation and, therefore, also to the innovations needed to ensure productivity growth, which is flat in our country right now, and the generation of employment in our country and in the European continent. In this respect, European innovation policies - and this will be the proposal and position of the Spanish Government - must support young businesses and in particular self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. Spain will support investment in flagship and high-impact projects such as EuroHPC, especially the training of new data infrastructure specialists and the promotion of European infrastructure interconnections. This government is firmly committed to high-impact research in our society in matters such as personalized medicine, in which Europe has a great opportunity for leadership, and the contribution of Spanish research and innovations in my opinion, in the opinion of this government, are particularly relevant. The last point I wanted to share with you is a rather important point, I would say that it is very important, for the Spanish Government and for our country, as is the debate on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, which will be discussed at the next European Council. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, also in this matter - especially in this matter - maintains a constructive position in order to reach, in our view, an agreement as soon as possible on the basis of the proposals put forward by the European Commission. But speed cannot be constrained by the rigour required in a fundamental debate for the future of the European Union and also fundamental for many regions in our country, especially in view of the implications of the UK's exit from the European Union, which will take place in March 2019, precisely in the process of negotiating the multiannual framework. In any case, as I have pointed out in several paragraphs of my presentation, the impetus given by the Commission's proposal to key issues for Spain, such as the framework for migration policies, is positive. Finally, I would like to make a brief reference to the state of the negotiations on the exit of the United Kingdom from the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain - we have said this on many occasions not only this government but also previous governments - wants an orderly process, because we have been supporting the Commission's negotiating team since it began its work just over a year ago - before the opposition, now from the government. We hope - I hope - that the withdrawal agreement can be presented in time, so that the European Council and Parliament can give their consent in the autumn, if possible at the October Council. Yes, I must single out a particularly relevant aspect for Spain in these negotiations, which is that of citizenship rights. As you know, there are many Spanish men and women who work or study in the United Kingdom and our country has the largest number of British nationals in a Member State of the European Union. Negotiations are progressing but very important issues remain, such as, for example, the situation in Northern Ireland with the border with Ireland and, in particular, in the case of Spain, Gibraltar. On this point, the European Council of April last year made it clear that any solution for an agreement between Spain and the United Kingdom, and we are working to ensure that this is for the benefit of all: of our citizens, of the British citizens living among us, and of a definitely orderly and agreed Brexit allowing for some kind of close relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom in the medium term. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done; and I'm done as I started. As I explained at the beginning of my speech, the Government is aware of the importance of the European Council opening tomorrow in Brussels. At the previous meetings held with the President of the French Republic and the Chancellor of Germany, as well as at the informal meeting held last Saturday, I was able to confirm this. Today, Europe needs more than ever to be faithful to its political narrative; a narrative that, paradoxically, is born of the ashes and rubble of the greatest tragedy experienced by humanity in the twentieth century and of the desire not to repeat mistakes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u3	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u4	...of a past of division, confrontation and mutual misunderstanding. The passing of the years, ladies and gentlemen, we are increasingly away from a time of world wars and secular confrontations that today seem unthinkable in the eyes of a generation that has experienced an era of unprecedented economic prosperity and legal security. There are fewer and fewer witnesses alive among us who can testify to the horrors experienced on this continent. The serene epic of the pioneers of the European Union is becoming more and more distant in time; a generation of leaders who were able to build patiently consensuses that many then termed merely bureaucratic in the face of mutual reticence and misgivings. It was precisely from these limited, precarious and cautious consensuss from which the foundations of a project that gained strength over time were built, a project that today is threatened by the rhetoric of identity populism and national selfishness, which deny the teachings of history. It is therefore up to our generation, ladies and gentlemen, to administer the legacy of those who raised the project of European construction out of nothing, from respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law as defining elements. Therefore, today more than ever, ladies and gentlemen, it is better to return to the origins of the European project to prevent our societies against those who only guarantee an involution and look with the nostalgia of those who forget the lessons of history. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout my speech I have pointed out key concepts for understanding this new time: solidarity, responsibility and empathy. Solidarity is the ultimate foundation of the European Union, the idea that convergence between territories helps the whole and benefits both the deliverer and the recipient. Responsibility forces us not to fall into the temptation of the impossible, which generates the disenchantment of frustrated expectations and ends up feeding the rupturist discourse of the Eurosceptics. And empathy forces us, ladies and gentlemen, to take the view of a third party as if it were our own, to understand the reasons and fears of the other, without judging from moral superiority. I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this Council represents a hope for progress in the most pressing challenges facing the European construction project. At the crossroads that was drawn before us, we have the opportunity to choose between building consensus or building walls of mutual misunderstanding; to build lasting agreements or solutions based on short-term tacticalism and electoral interests; to finally recover the values on which the European project is based or to betray the principles of the most advanced supranational construction project in history. This government, ladies and gentlemen, assumes the majority mandate of Spanish society to move forward in the construction of an ever closer union to deal with global threats from the ideal space provided by the European Union, and will defend these principles, not only for what they represent for our country in terms of opportunity for the future - which would already be sufficient - but also by thinking about the European construction project as a whole and understanding, as this government understands, that the economic and social progress of Spain depends, inescapably, on the economic and social progress of the whole of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u5	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, today we cancel another one-and-a-half-year abnormality without debate in plenary on European Councils, on European policy, and a functioning Parliament, an active Parliament, it is not that of the People's Party Government that brought to debate in this plenary the preparation of the European Councils but that which has a Joint Congress-Senate Commission for the European Union working on early warning systems and on the preparation of the European Councils and with the voice of the President of the Government moving the views and then the conclusions of the latter. Neither the People's Party nor its partners, indispensable at the time, were able to face this reality. We are facing a crisis of the common policy on migration and asylum that erupts in early 2015. Since then, the European institutions have raised unsatisfactory patches which have shown a weakness of the Council and, in particular, of the European Commission. Neither from Euroscepticism but not from the When this policy was on the verge of its collapse, Mr President, your Government decided to host migrants from the Aquarius boat. That decision, which is exceptional, has given it political and moral capital before European leaders and rulers who cannot stand alone in a unique and exceptional decision, but have to collide in the in-depth reform of European policy. There is no reason for anyone to think that this has been a cosmetic initiative. Explain clearly - let us explain clearly - to society why this reality. Let us make it clear to society that at the moment there is a difference, a gap, a ratio of eleven to one between the wealth of the European Union and that of the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, which are the countries that are the main protagonists of these migratory flows. Let us explain how many of these 629 Aquarius migrants are economic migrants, how many are asylum seekers, how many are affected by crises or wars. Let us explain to the public the effects of secondary movements. Let us overcome the acceptance of the bilateral agreements that, at a time not far away, weeks ago, Chancellor Merkel proposed and let us know, after criticising populism, that one day also in Euro-Mediterranean policy we will have to reach agreements with Italy to deal with this reality. First, offering legal channels of entry to immigration, legal and orderly channels. Secondly, by renegotiating and updating the directions of the blue card to attract talent; European demography and economy, European competitiveness, demand the revision of the blue card. [[The Lord]] Third, fighting without barracks against Mafia networks of human trafficking. Fourthly, with a genuine common policy on external borders. Frontex was a failure, a failure. When a migrant arrives in Lesbos, Malta, on the coast of Almería or on the soil of Hungary, a European citizen must consider the same challenge as the European Union's migration policy, which today does not exist at all: common policy, common borders, common cooperation with third countries, now that some northern countries are discovering the far-reaching problems of the southern countries. Let's not be distracted, landing platforms must be in Europe or North Africa. Let us support lasting growth in Africa. Let us adopt Agenda 2063 of the African Union. Ladies and gentlemen, for too many years the European Union has made a Euro-Mediterranean policy based on its wishes, sometimes even on its whims, and not on the needs of Africa. The African Union has put forward this Agenda 2063 and Europe should agree on a policy of economic growth planning with the challenges of climate change and with deep vigilance in the fight against corruption and the development of this Agenda 2063 of the African Union. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Two final considerations. On the eurozone, as I do not have much time, Mr President, I am going to make a metaphor for it. Do you remember patients who, when they are very, very sick, undertake to take all the medicines that are necessary to cure themselves but when they begin to cure themselves, they leave the medicines? Well, with the reform of the eurozone something similar can happen. Many were the commitments made when the disease was serious and some forget that the European Deposit Guarantee System should be tackled; I believe that the Spanish Government should be brought into line with the approaches of the French Government, knowing that the Netherlands and other powerful actors do not share it precisely. To conclude, yesterday the General Council of Foreign Ministers set June 2019 for the start of negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and also with Albania. You know the Western Balkans well, you have sensitivity for the Western Balkans; it is important that the future of the Western Balkans is Europe and that it is not an area of influence for Turkey or other countries. It is important that the future of the Western Balkans is European cooperation and integration. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have been over twenty teacher years and teachers always try to give positive examples, highlight positive examples, i.e. help a partner, for example. But we also try to reinforce these positive behaviors or examples to awaken awareness and above all to generate empathy. I am talking about examples because we understand that it is essential to put positive gestures into value in this Europe that begins to smell in the 1930s and 1940s. Positive gestures like those of a few days ago, gestures like those of the Valencian Government with the Aquarius or the Spanish Government. These examples need to be highlighted in order to highlight the selfish and xenophobic behaviors of some leaders in Italy, Poland, Hungary, Germany and other countries. Mr Sánchez, in Compromís we want me to fight for this Europe to be the Europe of Valencia, the Europe of thousands and thousands of volunteers who helped the other day, for this Europe to be the Europe of Ribó, of Monica Oltra, of yourself, of Ximo... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u9	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u10	I see that Members of the PP and citizens have a good sense of humor. Thank you very much. We want this Europe to be of these names and not of those who would like to be Members of the People's Party, the Europe of Salvini, Orban and other characters with an unbearable tuft of prefaces. We want Europe to fight for Europe to be the Europe of rights, of asylum, of solidarity. We want you to fight for everyone to understand that this problem cannot be only of the coastal countries, of Spain, of Italy, of Greece, of Malta, but it is a European problem that requires a European solution, broad, shared; that no one can escape, that no one must escape. We want you to fight so that these attitudes, those of the escalating, have consequences, because if they have no consequences, if nothing happens, we are sending a bad message. If no one assumes their responsibility, what good will this Europe do? Mr Sánchez, we want you to fight for a Europe that we can be proud of. I'm done. Mr Sánchez, when you are there remember, let us all bear in mind, the thousands and thousands of people who, in order to have a dignified life, emigrated to America, Galicians or Asturians, the Andalusians, Aragons, Castilians or Extremians who emigrated from the countryside to the cities in order to live, the emigrants from all the places that went to France, Switzerland and Germany in the sixties and seventies; remember Stanbrook and all the Stanbrooks, those ships that took from the port of Alicante more than 3000 people who had to go to exile to Oran or the exiles in Mexico. And finally, when I am there, I want you to remember the thousands and thousands of young people who this very morning rose up to work all over Europe so that they can have a decent life. That is our Europe and that is the Europe we want you to fight for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, you pointed out the importance of doing this act in advance of the Council of the European Union itself, of listening to the parliamentary groups and of knowing your vision, and in that we agree, but it is practically the only thing that we agree with what you have pointed out, because it once again affects a speech that for us, for the people of the independent sovereignist left, is dangerous, because dissension of the European Union does not make us less European, because it does not make us more Eurosceptic to say that the European Union is walking in the face of three realities that are harmful and that are dangerous to the dignity of the human being himself. That Europe as a bazaar or as a market, that Europe of transnationals, that Europe which sells itself to transnationals by making trade and investment agreements to the greater glory of multinationals and against the sovereignty of the States themselves is not a more democratic Europe, that Europe in which rights are subject to the wishes of the market is not a more just Europe, that Europe in which sovereignty of peoples, nations and States is subject to the interests of the benefits of multinationals is not a more legitimate or stronger Europe, and that is the reality of trade and investment agreements, CETA, TISA, TTIP and everyone. In reality that is no longer democracy, it is more corpocracy, more power for multinationals and less power for the people. There is another reality that also threatens Europe and it is one that makes it submit to the neoliberal doctrine, which makes it a good thing that black men are a reality present in our lives and that they can threaten and condition governments like that of Greece or that they can threaten and condition governments anywhere in Europe if they do not follow the dictates of austerity or austerityism, as I would like to call it. And that reality also clashes with the sovereignty of peoples and that is no longer Europe, that is a Europe that, of course, relegates citizens to a subordinate position with regard to the need to increase their benefits. You have devoted a great deal of time, and we thank you, to the reality of the migration crisis or the migration phenomenon, which would be more fair to say so because it has always existed. It would be good if Europe would one day dare to say how many people die in the mass grave of the Mediterranean and how many people die in sub-Saharan Africa. It is good to talk about eliminating concertinas, but it must also be said that 95% of the concertinas are in the Kingdom of Morocco and that we have sold them from the Kingdom of Spain. It would be good to say so and to make a real and effective commitment so that the concertinas would not reap the lives of anyone again. It is good to talk about not criminalizing NGOs, but at the same time it would be necessary for us not only to pursue the migrant or not to pursue the migrant and also to help the migrant, as is being done when the NGOs are being pursued. And it would be good if we did not get into more defensive operations, more Europe of defence when what Europe needs is in any case the Europe of solidarity.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Executive, Members of the Government of Spain, Members of Parliament, very good morning. Mr Sánchez, I would like to thank you for coming before a Council of Europe. I should like to thank you, but what I hope is that this debate will do something and that you will not come up with the conclusions you have drawn. In any event, I transmit to you that the Navarro People's Union is for the enforcement of the rights of international treaties in relation to the development of the human rights of the United Nations. Secondly, we are in compliance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, distinguishing irregular immigration from asylum seekers, as set out in Articles 67 and 68 of that Treaty. As a signatory to the Treaty of Lisbon and the subsequent directives of the Member States, it must be stressed that Europe's immigration policies are not only the responsibility of our country, but of all the Member States of the European Union. Mr. Sanchez, you present yourself as a dialogue man. That is how it has been presented in this House and it has done so before the Spanish. Well, the Navarro People's Union is also a party that has demonstrated for twenty-three years in the Government of Navarra to be a dialogue party with the right and the left and with you we have even reached a lot of agreements for the progress and for the good of Navarra. However, to be a dialoguer, we must have red principles and lines that must never be crossed. That is why, Mr Sánchez, allow me to show you in these remaining seconds that UPN will be vigilant in the face of this possible rapprochement of ETA prisoners. Firstly, to ask for forgiveness and, secondly, to comply with the Prison Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Sánchez, in the face of your first participation in the European Council, the concerns for Spain arising from the developments that an unusual cosmetic government, without a programme, may present are inevitable and the political measures it intends to adopt are unknown. Without even having constituted the Council of Ministers, one of its first announcements was to transfer to the European Union its will to improvise a Copernican turn to Spanish energy policy to condemn some regions, such as Asturias, to desertification, hidden under the euphemism of decarbonisation, which severely threatens the sustainability and competitiveness of the electro-intensive industry, on which thousands of jobs and major population regions depend. You ratified it with the appointment as minister of a recognized fundamentalist of urban ecology, which promotes a lethal process of desertification of the mining basins, with effects on the economy of thousands of families and without any alternative of employment and progress. The second concern is related to the trade policy and risks announced by Donald Trump on tariffs, which can have very serious consequences on steel and aluminium, with destabilization of other sectors and unpredictable consequences on employment, Spain's main need. And the third concern has to do with the political priorities of the multiannual financial framework from 2020 onwards affected by the Brexit and with far-reaching effects on cohesion funds and those of the common agricultural policy. You have not cleared today the three threats to Asturias, which add to the doubts about the will of your Government to manage the Budget Act that will be adopted here tomorrow in six months. In fact, the Minister of Development, the government's largest investor, has already announced deadlines audits, which in socialist language will result in the halting of important projects and the failure to comply with his commitment to the House to implement public accounts. In conclusion, Mr President. Never in such a short time, Mr Sánchez, had a president of government sown more fear in Asturias than you about the future of the Asturians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, I am a Member of Parliament for the Canary Islands, a land of migration, a land of solidarity, a land which is the southern border of Europe and which was the first territory in Europe to live in the years 2006 and 2008 the tragedy of immigration. The Canary Islands Coalition agrees with you that this is basically a drama; a drama for which we must have a Spanish policy and a European policy of solidarity and joint action. Yesterday the Minister of the Interior met with the President of the Canary Islands and we shared three things. First, we must strengthen the SIVE and Frontex because you know that the same thing happened the other time, when the area of Morocco was closed it moved to the Canary Islands and took place that drama that I lived as political leader in the front line. Secondly, the meeting that the Foreign Minister and the Interior Minister are going to have in Morocco seems appropriate to us, but we believe that the meeting in Senegal, Mali and Mauritania should also be immediate. Thirdly, we believe that the sectoral conference must be convened in order, in solidarity, to put the resources we have. This is not a problem of Ceuta, Melilla and Andalusia today and within a few days of the Canary Islands. In this sense, we share his position because in 2006, when Italy, Germany and everyone looked elsewhere, Canarias was supportive and welcomed 10,000 unaccompanied minors in a small community like ours. Therefore, the Canary Islands will be in line with the Government on an issue where we must be responsible, sensitive and not forget that the Spaniards were not only emigrants for political reasons but also for economic reasons, as my land lived. In this regard, it will have the loyalty of the Canary Islands Coalition, the Government of the Canary Islands and on the European line, where today there is precisely a meeting in Brussels of the President of the Canary Islands with those responsible for migration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government. This European Council is another opportunity for the European Union to try to regain the confidence and prestige lost by a large part of European citizenship. I would like to remind you that the European Union's very hard response against the general interest in the past crisis in the great recession still raises blisters in a lot of people. It is true that the xenophobic evolution of some Member States of the European Union arouses mistrust and it is also true that the military organisation of eight countries of the European Union does not speak precisely of an evolution towards unity. This is a concern in fundamental policies. With regard to migration policy, I should like to congratulate you on your prompt response to the Aquarius crisis. I also have to tell you that there is a southern border that is the Mediterranean, I have no doubt, but there is another border that is in the Atlantic, and that is the Canary Islands. That border, as you know, is enormously sensitive and permeable, and we also run the risk of being placed in a kind of limbo in which we forget that there is also the migratory drama. We trust that you will defend the interests of that second southern border, the true southern border of Europe, but we also tell you one thing, we are sure that there are no walls against hunger and injustice, which is what makes people emigrate. As an illustrious socialist at the time said, if resources do not flow from the north to the south, people will flow from the south to the north. The European Union's response must be above the short regatta, the occurrences and must really come into the need to help the development of today's impoverished countries. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u22	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, the truth is that of all the issues that you are going to raise at the summit, the star is that of migration. I very much agree with what you have said, that it must be dealt with more as an internal policy issue than as a foreign policy issue. This is perhaps the most significant issue, not because what we are facing this year in terms of immigration is a peak in number - it is true that it increases by the west of the Mediterranean - but rather because of the political tension that exists in European countries. There are already threats even internally; for example, the tension within Germany with Bavaria, where, by the way, control of German borders is exercised by the Bavarian police, I say this in order to take examples in Europe. There is a clear risk that there may be a break, because if the countries in the chain are closing the borders, that means breaking Schengen, which is one of the great European icons and would therefore break the European dream. We are playing the populist boom and the defeat of European democracy and its values, and we must accept once and for all that Dublin III does not work, Mr President, and that we must change it. That the first country in which a person takes land is the one that makes himself responsible for it doesn't work. There is a constant movement, even though this freedom of movement does not exist at the legal level until a few years pass, but it happens. And the truth is that for 50% of young Africans their bill and their aspiration is migration to Europe; therefore, this will last. By the way, the problem is not just European; here we have Lebanon, with 4 million inhabitants, of which 1.5 million are Syrian refugees, plus the 300 000 Palestinians that exist; we also have the 3.5 million Syrians that are currently in Turkey. It is a complicated situation because there is no common asylum policy and everyone interprets the obligations with regard to asylum as they wish. The status of European asylum and refuge is conceived with a temporary objective, however, the situations are chronised. In the end, refugees end up with problems of employability and adjusting their living conditions to the rest of the population, something that does not happen until many years pass - according to statistics, more than a decade -. What is also happening is that we see less and less difference - I believe that in this we must be pedagogical towards the population and speak clearly - between what is immigration with refugee status and merely economic immigration. What should we do? I believe that the interpretation of the cause of refuge must be made clear. Should the cause of refuge be extended? Some even advocate that the mere economic reason be. I think that would be addicting to the object of that institute, it wouldn't be the right thing to do. The problem is that, in the end, emergencies lead us not to distinguish and to something unacceptable, which is hot evictions, of which Spain has used more than too much. Solutions? The communitisation of migration policies - that is clear - but the common asylum criteria, in our view, need to be applied by European officials. It is not possible for each country to do so, but it has to be done from a purely European structure. It does not seem that the Twenty-eight will agree on the consequences, perhaps just an important core of countries. I believe that this also has to have consequences - then I will try to be more concrete - for countries that do not enter. Migration should be a policy of treaties, beyond compliance with European values; a policy of treaties and obligations. We are talking about migrant centres, about those platforms. I believe that, on the one hand, it is an idea not to be ruled out, an idea that can be positive in the sense that it can give security to migrants themselves, a security that they now lack, because it could avoid the mafia and all the human trafficking that is happening. As far as the location - I know there are discrepancies - is not clear to me either, but it is true that if the location is in Europe, that trafficking in mafia would not be avoided, nor the risk of death at sea crossing; however, it would be avoided if it were on the other side. It's a subject to be considered. It is also true that it would avoid all detention centres in those recent returns through Libyan patrols that picked up the shipwrecks. It is clear that Libyan detention centres respect absolutely no human value and that they are even treated within them. I think it is important because these platforms could also apply the common asylum criterion. We must also talk about economic migration. You have spoken a lot, but as if they were all refugees, and economic emigration is Frontex and border, and I think we should talk about the blue card that Mr Xuclà has quoted, but beyond all that. I believe that Europe must clearly consider economic migration quotas because, if not, we are not going to respond to a need that is there. Who pays for all this? I believe that those States that are not willing to comply with some obligations will have to cut the economic flows of European funds towards them because, if not, that will not make sense of solidarity. If these platforms are made, access will have to be completely closed by other means, since otherwise they will be useless. We will also need a reform of Dublin III, a distribution in countries, and if there are movements outside the country that a person has assigned that will have some consequences, whether it is expulsion or another, but it will have some consequences because, if not, it will not be serious, and obviously we will have to pay a lot of attention to family reunification. You have spoken about the economic development of African countries. I think we are all aware, but in the end we are teaching one face of the currency but not the other, hiding it, because it is not worth the cooperation - we have already tried it; not only Spain but many other European countries - apart from the fact that I believe it has to be a European policy. We are talking that this would have consequences for the European economy. Clearly, if these countries are to develop, most of them will be in the field of agriculture, and the CAP, it must be made clear, as Europe has known so far, if we really believe the development of those countries to stop migration, it will not be the same as it had so far. Improving their competitiveness is also improving market access and, therefore, the World Trade Organization agreements, but also the access of all these products to Europe. That means that the European economy in some areas will have to suffer and will have to diversify. That's what we need to talk about, too. We will have to talk about repatriation agreements with all those countries, which is not going to be easy. You speak of solidarity at European level and of joint work, and I absolutely agree, but I also believe that this joint work must be done within the Spanish State, and I think we lack it. We have a problem with the MENA, as you well know, and I would say that with the management of migratory flows within Spain itself. We suddenly find buses departing from one city to another, appearing at the bus station without anyone notifying anyone, without anyone being prepared, without anyone knowing where those buses come from, who pays them, who finances them. This is as if we place certain responsibilities in the neighbor but without organizing and without warning. That can't be. There is everything involved, Mr President; the prosecution offices are involved, which in the field of foreign affairs, for example, act with respect to the MENA, with great speed in some places and with no speed in others; the Ministry of the Interior and other police officers who may have that responsibility, but above all the Ministry of the Interior; the social services of the autonomous communities are involved. I ask you that this work that you are undertaking at European level be done already and urgently, that coordination at the level of the Spanish State. I will be very brief and schematic about the other issues, as I have no time left. I believe that the fiscal pillar must be strengthened because it is part of the European future. We have no fear - someone could think of the economic concert, etc. - no fear; we believe it fits perfectly into what this future of fiscal scheme within Europe might be. I also believe that they need to pay attention in this area of taxation to the growth of the digital economy. It's a challenge we have on the table. He talked about data infrastructure, information exchange. I think it is vital; I liked it to raise that issue. Besides, we're willing to give you a few ideas. We will talk about that with regard to the Government. As for the Brexit, I'd ask you for something. Obviously, the big issue is Northern Ireland, but Gibraltar is also there. You were talking about the Spain-United Kingdom agreements, but don't forget about the Gibraltarians. Yes, they are the UK, but with a specific personality and they have a lot to say in all of this. I think that if we manage it well - I have always said so and I repeat it also in this circumstance - it can be an opportunity for the Gibraltar Field and for the economy of the area. Not by getting involved many times in the flag will we find better solutions for all citizens. I think that view should not be lost. Finally - I have already exceeded the time and now I am finished, Mr President - we agree with structural cooperation in the field of defence. I think it can be a very important pillar of a stronger European Union, but it seems to us to be going slowly. We welcome that initiative by those eight European countries, including Spain, to create a common force of military intervention, because we also believe that it is not in conflict with the European project and can also be a good landing platform for developing such structural cooperation. We therefore greet him with conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, I take it that you are here to give him a preview. It is obvious that hiding your head under the wing or closing your eyes does not allow you to think that problems are solved when you raise your head or open them again. I believe that you, now that you are going to attend a summit for the first time and that you have already met and have established contacts with the presidents of other European governments, should acknowledge that you have a backpack on you, which is the eight years in which the People's Party, Mr Rajoy, denied any conversation, any dialogue, any negotiation with the Catalan institutions of self-government. [[the lady]] This is a backpack. When the President of the Bundesrat visits Madrid and you are asked about Catalonia, that's what there is; and when you make a press conference with Mrs Merkel and you are asked about Catalonia, you have a backpack. I'm not saying that you're the one who provoked her, but you're wearing her; in fact, you've been an accomplice to putting material in this backpack, which weighs a lot. There are European leaders who do not understand that there are political prisoners in the Spanish state and that there are exiles, and they do not understand how a defenceless population that was just trying to vote was beaten to death. You yesterday from Berlin, believing that by closing your eyes history will metabolize contradictions, says: October 1st did not exist; Catalans, forget it. In fact, you yesterday... [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, makes negative gestures]] Yes, from Berlin, he did from Berlin. I knew what he was saying and I knew where he was saying it. You said: Catalans, forget what has existed, there is no problem. Moreover, I will design a very small, very narrow field of play in which only those Catalan compatriots who are not independent can be present. Yesterday you gave impetus to a possible agreement between the Socialist Group and the Republican Left that was only intended - I think they would have understood it easily in Europe because they do not carry backpacks, because many years ago they lived in democracy - to design a very wide playing field in which they covered at least 80% of Catalans, who are the ones who want to have a dialogue about everything. Yesterday you went to the short regatta, to the immediate interest, and said: no, no, 50, 60 or perhaps 70% of Catalans are expelled from the field of play. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, because we only said that it was necessary for dialogue to be unconditional and without renunciation, that everyone could talk about everything, and you said that you could talk about many things but only about what was in the Constitution; that is, the same speech by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Well, you'll know what you're doing. What's he got? He has achieved a new photograph 155 and that those who have a realistic vision, a constructive vision, that we know that the commitment of our generation and perhaps that of our children is to find a definitive solution, today we have a weaker position. You have not been able to understand that you had to build a scenario of relaxation, of understanding, of dialogue, and what have you done? Exercising the extremes. On the way in, you know what you got? May the relationship between you and us be very, very touched. You'll know. Going to the point... what's going on? [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] Is this the pimple you want to pay for? This one? That when we talk about a truncated issue that affects so many millions of citizens - because we have always said that the democratic quality of the Kingdom of Spain will also depend on how the Catalan conflict is resolved, intercomilado if you want - they laugh. Do you know why they laugh? Because they are not ashamed of the existence of political prisoners. [[Applauds]] That's why you can afford that luxury. Now, if you want to be a size politician, don't hide your head under the wing, don't close your eyes. Yesterday you made a big mistake, went easy, narrowed the field. In fact, it did not help at all to make the meeting between the President of Catalonia and you work. What did you win? The story will tell. We understand that each political position can weigh the intensity of the solution, but there will be no solution to everything that concerns us now, which is a basic and hot point that is the migrations and humanitarian crisis that we live through if we do not agree on five fundamental ideas. If these five ideas are assumed, then each one, depending on his political position, can verbalize to his electorate or to society to commit in an intensity two to its application, in an intensity four or in an intensity eight, but if we do not assume what are the five fundamental ideas, there will be no solution. One, it must be said that the fall of borders towards capital is directly proportional to the construction of walls against people. This is a reality that our contemporaries see. Two, if you remain more concerned about the consequences of migration, but not about its causes, we will be dizzying the loss. Three, if we do not end the economic policies that drive people out of their homes because of extreme poverty and if the developed world, the European world does not cease to see poverty as a source of capital accumulation, we will not solve it. Four, if the wars of consent - wars of consent - are not over, behind which there are multinationals - some with Spanish pretensions - there is no solution; moreover, they involve more terrorism and more failed states. We can talk about Libya and the responsibilities of some political parties with Libya - failed state - and now we pay the consequences. France and Britain, who were the great instigators of what happened in Libya, are now claiming that, without complexes, we should outsource concentration camps. Finally, we must put an end to this framework of international relations that perpetuates misery. Do you remember when the debate of progress - forgive conventionalism - was debt forgiveness or not? We are so bad that even if States were able to stop being selfish and be able to forgive, even forgiveness would not be a solution. That is, the fact that States renounced debt, which for the left was an almost unrealizable goal, today, even if we got this scenario, would not be the solution because after four days these States would be the same as now. I believe we have lost our position in this regard. That is why I was saying to you that you should tell us here whether, for example, you are willing to defend Amnesty International's positions or whether you will be rocked by the demand to implement UNHCR's recommendations, just as you should tell us whether you are, for example, in favour of outsourcing concentration camps and what role those States are assigned to tapon, because there is no greater hypocrisy than to believe that by hiding their heads under the wing the problems will be solved; moreover, the consequence of all this is the increase in xenophobia, racism, populism and a regression of all wars, of all. Therefore, perhaps we should agree on these five points. We cannot ask Esquerra Republicana, that we are a social-democratic party, or you, to have the positions of another left, but at least we have to agree on the framework, on the playing field. Do you remember how I started the surgery? Playing field, but not a narrow playing field. See if you understand. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u26	Thank you, President. Members, Members, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about an important matter; but we have to make a preview: Mr Sánchez arrived by the back door, without going through the ballot box, with twenty-two political parties, and more than a month ago he presented the motion of censure and we still do not know his government plan. How are we going to discuss Europe if we don't even know what you think of Spain? [[Applauds]] He keeps hiding and talking about everything that has nothing to do with governing; surely because you can't govern, because you don't have seats to govern, because you can't legislate, because you need Mr Tardà to approve the General Budgets of the State, imagine what the Republican Left can do with the General Budgets of the State. Therefore today we are going to start a conversation without knowing - which is very serious from the political point of view - the position of the Government and its plan of government, which is the first thing that is required when someone presents a motion of censure. Good. The European Council's affairs will be important, certainly the immigration issue is probably the most urgent and important issue of European policy; also the common defence issue, the multiannual budgets. But let me tell you at this first point in this first part of the ten minutes I have to speak about the most important and most serious issue in Europe, which is immigration. Look, the first problem of Europe and of European societies today is a debate between populists and nationalists who want to close Europe to those who want to come to have opportunities on our continent, and the liberals, who believe that Europe has to be a place of opportunities. But in that, we believe, there must be two values that balance migration policy. The first value is solidarity, and in solidarity I am convinced that we are almost all; anyone who has a heart, anyone who believes in human rights is in favour of giving asylum and refuge to those who flee from war; anyone who has a heart, and ultimately reason, is also in favour of those who come to our country on a regular basis having rights. But today we do not debate solidarity, because I believe that the Spanish people have shown themselves to be a solidarity people, today we come to discuss responsibility, which is what I think is lacking to talk about this issue in what we have heard from Mr Sánchez. Because we have to balance solidarity with responsibility, because without responsibility we can end up like many countries, with populism in governments. Italy, I would like to recall, was a European country and today it is governed by the nationalists of the North League, the partners of the PdeCAT and by the 5 Stars. [[applause]] We must therefore talk about solutions to prevent the 5 Stars, that the PdeCAT, that the nationalists, that in short those of the North League in Spain, which are these gentlemen, can also be partners of government. Well, in fact, they're already government partners, but they might be in the government. Therefore if populism and nationalism become, as some European leaders have said, the poison of Europe - Juncker said in Salamanca: the poison of Europe is nationalism - we will have to face, Mr Sánchez with such a nature what the European leaders tell us. You have understood that instead of being the poison of Europe they are your governing partners. I still think like Mr Juncker, or like Mr Macron, who said that Europe could perish in the bonfire of nationalism, I think so too, but in the bonfire of nationalism we must not perish, so they do not have to be partners or mark the political agenda of this country, but we should do so among those Europeanists, among those constitutionalists who defend this. You have chosen the nationalist and populist partners, the enemies of Europe, to reach the government. We believe that the Socialist Party or the People's Party are not our enemies, they are our competitors, but that Europe's adversary is called populism and nationalism. And also we have to fight this in the face of a human condition difficult to manage, we are faced with a lot of people's expectation of being able to live in another country and have opportunities. So we are in favour of a European policy, yes, but the question to be asked, Mr Sánchez - which I have not heard a word from you - is what you are going to do in Spain. In Europe we can agree that we need to cooperate, we can agree to talk about a common shelter policy, we can agree to strengthen the Frontex, we can agree to work with the countries of origin to curb migratory flows; but the question we do not know - or what you think - is what to do in Spain with immigration policy and with immigration policy. Not a word from the current President of the Government on Spanish immigration policy. Mr Sánchez, we have to be brave, because surely Spain needs for the future people to come to work in this country, to pay the pensions, in short to be the ones who can bear the backpack of the welfare state, but I also say one thing: we have to regulate it, because the very good, the gestures can be the food of populism. Good will, I insist, we all have it. All the Spaniards are sure to want us to humanitarianly serve anyone who is on our shores by playing life. The question is not that; the question is that, as a political leader and as a political leader, we must be responsible, not just solidarity. What is this government going to do with immigration policy? The policy of receiving the Aquarius or the policy of regulating by points, as Trudeau does in Canada? Australia's policy or the policy of looking elsewhere and irregular migration flows coming? What does this government want? We don't know; you don't have a plan or a road map. Tell us in your turn, please, what this government intends to do beyond gestures, because gestures also have consequences, and you have acknowledged it. Spain supports even more migratory flows this year than last year. Therefore, humanitarian gestures, which we share, have consequences. And as for the Aquarius, let me tell you that there is not only an Aquarius in Valencia, as they said here; there is an Aquarius every week in Algeciras, in Ceuta, in Melilla, in Canarias. [[Applauds]] That's right. So you listen to Mrs. Susana Díaz and her colleagues in Andalusia, and you will explain that what you have done with the Aquarius and all that gesticulation has to have a responsible immigration policy behind you, a regulated immigration, a point immigration, an immigration of people who come to work in our country. There are many people who want to come to work, but I tell you one thing, Mr. Sánchez: without a proper policy of the 21st century, as Canada does, as Australia does, as it is beginning to regulate France, without that policy, do you know what will happen? That we will pretend that no immigrants come to Spain, and they will come and irregularly. And it is much better that they come regularly, that they know which economic sector they are going to come to, what contracts and where they are going to have them, what rights they are going to have in Spain; and also to tell the mafias who deal with human beings - which is the opposite - that that is not the way, and that in Spain the mafias are not going to bring or deal with human beings. That is the way and that is the position of the European liberals: the position of responsibility, let us regulate regular immigration, let us detect talent, let us detect people who want to help, people who want to cooperate with Spain, people who have and can have the right to live regularly and orderly in our country, but let us also tell the mafias that they are not going to enter here simply by dealing with human beings, deceiving them and exploding them. [[Applauds]] We also have to be firm against them. We must therefore cooperate in Europe, yes, but we must not put a blindfold in Spain. We are a country that has a great deal of migration, that we are Europe's external border, and that has to implement a modern immigration policy, a policy of the 21st century. I insist that there are countries that are doing so and they are doing better than us. Let us therefore see what they are doing in other countries and apply it in Spain. The Socialist Party has traditionally never wanted to address this matter beyond gestures. I believe that we must approach it responsibly and with a country project, with an immigration project and also knowing what our country needs, how many people can come to our country, to which sectors they will come, and above all what rights and freedoms they will have. On the other hand, Mr Sánchez, in addition to immigration, I would also like to comment on a matter in which it seems to me essential that you take a stand. Will you at the European Council explain to them that you are against free trade? Are you going to explain to the European partners that you and your party were against the Free Trade Agreement with Canada? Will you explain to Macron, Trudeau - when you see the Canadian leader - that you are against prosperity and free trade between Spanish and Canadian? And the question I ask you is, will you also be against the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement with Argentina or Brazil? Are you going to be against the treaty that Commissioner Malmström is negotiating with Japan? Are you going to be against the Free Trade Agreement with Mexico? Yes or no, Mr. Sanchez, why aren't the pictures here anymore? [[Applauds]] The final question is whether you will listen to Mr Iglesias, your partner, at your meetings in Moncloa, whether you will vote against and oppose free trade or whether you are with the Europeanists who defend free trade. That is the question, because talking about the European budgets and not knowing what economic policy we have is complicated, and we must explain to the Europeans by saying to them: one of two, or that Mr Sánchez corrects what he said about the CETA - I hope that you will rectify and be with Citizens and Europeans - or that he will not rectify and is with Podemos and the populists. That answer, Mr Sánchez, you have to tell us here before you go to the European Council; it would be good if the Spaniards knew it. Finally, speaking of reforms also of the multiannual European budget, Mr Sánchez, in order to have a common European policy, we must not only ask, we must give and we must make reforms. You have dynamized the educational pact, and you personally took care that the first educational pact that could emerge in democracy in Spain was dynamized with a sectarian policy. Spain needs to take the lead in education in Europe and we are in line, being the first to drop out of school prematurely. Another policy, work. Mr Sánchez, you have not told us what you intend to do, and the only thing you have done has been to vote against a law, which is very similar to that made by Renzi in Italy or by Macron in France, which allows you to equalize the work of people entering the labour market and turn them into fixed work from day one. You have made an old labour policy, a policy of precariousness such as that of the People's Party, and the PSOE and the PP have brought us to Europe's worst employment, together with Greece and Poland. I therefore ask you whether you are going to go to Europe to say that you are going to make educational reforms, yes or no? Are you going to make job reforms or just know how to repeal? Do you have any proposals beyond the slogans or do you have a government plan? Mr Sánchez, since you have not explained to us the government plan, at least as regards immigration policy, education policy, economic policy, and ultimately the policy of Europe's position in the European Council, I would like you, who have free time in this forum, to explain to us a little - if there is anything you can tell us - what you think of all these policies in the European Council. I ended up with a project that we believe in and that we can find ourselves in. It is important that there are people from different positions - I am convinced that there are many European Socialists, and people who were in the European Socialist Group and who are no longer, like Mr Macron or Mr Renzi - we are defending a common European project. Moreover, in Spain we have had one of the main Europeanists convinced from the beginning. One of our thinkers, Ortega and Gasset, spoke of the European ultranation and said that Europe was the solution. He said Spain was the problem, but I think Spain has to stop being the problem and have to have part of the solution. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, from a convinced Europeanism, from the desire for you to rectify your old policies, we extend our hand to you to be more European, but to be responsible and to have a project. We have to have a government project in Spain in order to be able to tell something in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u27	Thank you very much. By Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Iglesias Turrión has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, this appearance is an anomaly, and it should not be. It is logical that the government before going to a European Council should appear at the seat of popular sovereignty, and more so if it is a government without a parliamentary majority, and that is why I think it is up to you to thank him for allowing us to discuss Spain's position in Parliament at the European Council. Mr Rajoy was not even worthy to appear in this Congress a posteriori, after going to the European Councils. I think some things are changing for good and I thank you. Mr Rivera, you sometimes quote Albert Camus, others to Suárez, but today you have tried to fly higher and you have tried to correct Ortega and Gasset. You have also said that you do not share a European strategy with political forces such as the PDECAT and the Basque Nationalist Party. I remind you that you share a group in the European Parliament with the PDECAT and the Basque Nationalist Party; stop being ridiculous, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European Council to be held is historic for different reasons. The German government is coming up with a government crisis that has to do with refugees. Let us see the Visegrad bloc once again attacking the basic rights and consensus that gave rise to the European Union, and theoretically Macron was presenting a partial and inefficient reform project, which we heard this morning on the radio that appears to be coming off the agenda. I'm not sure what you're gonna argue about there. What I want to say is that you should bear in mind that the European project is experiencing an organic crisis, and that organic crisis has something to do with what you pointed out in your speech, and it is the crisis of the founding principles of the European project, which has to do with the anti-fascist consensus of those who knew and saw very closely the horrors that our continent suffered. The rise of xenophobic and reactionary political forces is a worrying reality; the political offensive against freedoms and human rights is a worrying reality, and we must call things by their name: what has returned to Italy is fascism. And the Europeanists and the anti-fascists have to make it very clear that fascism must be combated with all the necessary intensity, fascism. [[Applauds]] Migration, Mr President of the Government, is not only a drama, it is an indicator that measures the decency of our political systems. You acted well in the Aquarium crisis, but it is not enough, and gestures and marketing are not enough to respond to a reality that, while we were doing very well in the Aquarius affair, hundreds of refugees and migrants arrived on the southern border, some are arrested and expelled and others are paid a bus ticket to get to cities like Barcelona, which has many difficulties in dealing with the management of this humanitarian drama. You have to unlock the European funds, which must be directed at the local administrations, which are the ones who are giving their face and those who are dealing with migrants and refugees, to assume a competence that is your competence. Mr. Borrell, I saw you the other day in New Orleans with the King of Spain in the United States and I missed your critical statement with the US government, and specifically with President Trump, who is separating the children from their families on the border with Mexico. It should be noted that there has been a change of Government in Spain, also pointing out that the Government of Spain is going to be against fascist policies and that they violate human rights. It was not enough for you to accompany the head of state, the Democrats would have wanted to hear a strong statement against the United States Government. [[Applauds]] Mr President of the Government, I think it was reckless of you to say that migrant landing centres are an issue to be studied. Macron's proposal for landing centres is not only doomed to failure, it is also a shame that goes against human rights. Subcontracting migration policies and externalising borders is unacceptable to democrats, which is what the European Union was doing with Gaddafi while Mr Gaddafi was funding electoral campaigns in France and giving horses to President Aznar. There's a very cynical phrase that passed into Franklin Roosevelt's story, about the dictator Somoza, who said: Somoza is a son of a bitch, but he's our son of a bitch. Let this cynicism not inform the European Union's migration policy. Europe must not outsource thugs who do not respect human rights. It was unacceptable to militarize the Mediterranean; it was unacceptable to criminalize NGOs and civil society organizations that protected migrants; it was unacceptable to raise walls. The Australian model, the model of landing platforms and mass detention centres is unacceptable, inhumane and head-on against European democratic values. [[Applauds]] I would like to make specific proposals for you to take to the Council. Tell the Council that the CIEs must be closed, the CIEs are against European human rights policy. We have to end the hot deportations once and for all. Our country has to comply with the quota of refugees that was agreed in 2016 and we have to reformulate - it has been said to the Basque Nationalist Party - the Dublin agreement. In a word: Spain has to be a European reference that says no in Europe to Mr Trump's fascist model and Mr Salvini's fascist model. Mr President of the Government, austerity has not only created an unprecedented crisis in political systems and in European party systems, it is against human rights. There is something that all southern Europeans know: the welfare state was the axis of social cohesion in Europe. If we had any reason for the Spaniards, the Greeks and the Portuguese to want to be part of the European family, it was a promise of prosperity, a promise of social rights and a promise to guarantee respect for human rights. That is what has fuelled the austerity policies sponsored by the troika, the results of which are the fall in wages, the progressive degradation of public services, increasing inequality and unacceptable levels of poverty in the Union. 24% of the European Union, Mr President, is at risk of poverty. That is the breeding ground for xenophobia and fascism in Europe. We live in an environment that reminds us of the Weimar Republic, and that is why it is very important that from Spain we lead a project for the recovery of Europe based on social rights and sovereignty. It would be a shame, Mr Sánchez, for the European Union to trample and crush the Tsipras project in Greece, while now doing absolutely nothing against Orban and against Salvini. It is a shame and Spain has to stand firm to say that Europe does not tolerate fascists. [[Applauds]] Mr President, I should like to list a few European states: Italy, Germany, France, Austria, the Netherlands, Poland, Hungary, Denmark and Sweden. Do you know they have in common? Two things: The first thing is that there rules the extreme right or the first opposition force is the extreme right, and the second thing they have in common is the collapse of the Social Democratic parties. There are only two socialist parties in Europe that are doing well electorally: the Labour Party with Corbyn and the Portuguese socialists who have looked to the left to govern. These must be their European references. I remember in my Europarliamentary era listening to Elena Valenciano wish strength and courage to Renzi. Now Renzi is with Albert Rivera. Mr Sánchez, we can build a reference from Spain. Spain needs to point out a different path of re-founding the European project, we need to bet openly on expansionary policies that increase domestic demand and put an end to austerity. I make some specific proposals to you. European unemployment insurance must be created, the common budget of the eurozone must incorporate democratic control mechanisms, a public investment plan must be put in place, and tax dumping must be avoided by coordinating fiscal policies at European level. Spain can be a benchmark in Europe, Mr Sánchez, see what a country like Portugal has achieved and imagine what we could achieve if we worked together to make our Government Europe's social and progressive reference. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the President of the Government for coming to this House to report on the Spanish position at his own request and on his own initiative to the European Council. It is true that it is an anomaly, as Mr. Iglesias said, but let us hope that it is already a constant. That was the commitment of the President of the Government in the motion of censure, and we will surely fulfil it throughout the remainder of the legislature. Another change in the forms, always so important in the funds, because it is important to listen to Parliament, to govern with Parliament and to enrich its position, because that is where national sovereignty resides, and among other things because we were so accustomed to a government that it did not govern with Parliament, but ruled against Parliament, failing to comply with resolutions and not even coming when asked to do so. We must all congratulate the Socialist Government on its work in Parliament. [[Applauds]] This is true, Mr President, dialogue strengthens politics. The European Council to be held tomorrow and Friday in Brussels is crucial for the design of the Union's project in the future, and Spain can contribute a great deal from its experience, and above all from the Socialists, for its experience and sensitivity in the issues to be discussed. That the government shares, as I said before, with this House its criteria, and that it can enrich them with the voice of Parliament, will make us much stronger in the position we bring. I would also like to thank the parliamentary groups that have spoken for the support they are giving to the government in the face of this important European challenge, except of course... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u31	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u32	... a Citizens, to Mr. Rivera, whom I recommend to digest the motion of censure at once. I understand that you looked like a demoscopic leader and now you don't know how to look. [[Applauds]] But, look, Europeanists do not inflame territorial debates, which is what you are doing. In recent weeks, the only thing we have heard from Mr Albert Rivera has been an amendment to the Electoral Law so that millions of citizens of this country do not have representation in the Congress of Deputies, and that does not make any other party within the European Union, precisely because what we intend to do is to build a diverse, plural European Union where all citizens can be heard. [[applause]] [[Protests]] Talk about solidarity... [[Rumors]] I am always very respectful to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, so please be so with this spokesman. He speaks of solidarity, but he points to the xenophobic discourse of those who warn of a false effect called. He said so in his speech. Do you know what that means? That you are not up to Spanish citizenship, which is a deeply supportive citizenship. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, just a few weeks ago Spain has changed its government and politics has regained momentum at all levels, especially at European level: from the formation of the new Council of Ministers and Ministers, with strong European convictions, to the demonstrated management capacity with the humanitarian and exemplary work carried out in the Aquarius crisis, during these days when the world was looking to our country with hope, and where for the first time in a long time Spanish citizenship was recognized in its government precisely because of that solidarity of the government of the nation. We believe in the European Union as an institution capable of better solving the global challenges facing us in isolation. Socialists see the European Union as a project capable of improving people's lives in a globalised world with common challenges, and we think that a European government is the one that believes, defends and applies solidarity, freedom and joint commitment as intrinsic values of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of President Sánchez, and above all the commitments and support made with the main Community leaders, point to the role that Spain wants to play in the European Union. We are talking about avoiding responsibilities, addressing the main problems with determination and without prejudice. Europe, in the face of the rise of Euroscepticism, fuelled by xenophobia and populism, is not in favour of indefinite positions at this time. On the positions you have commented on, I will give a brief summary of the assessment we make, Mr President. As I pointed out, the response to the problem of migration must be addressed from the European institutions with a joint response. We are a border country, which knows this matter well. Spain must shoulder with responsibility, being aware of the human challenge that this represents, and we must work on it, as the President has pointed out, both in the countries of origin and in the countries of transit, enhancing financial cooperation, improving border control from scrupulous respect for human rights, and fighting against mafias and human trafficking organizations. The President was also commenting on the impetus for setting up a European unemployment fund and we appreciate it very positively, as we believe it is good to learn from the past. This proposal would help minimize the risks of future economic crises. He spoke of the great European and Spanish challenge of depopulation, of empty Spain, a silent reality that assails much of the territory. And another added problem is the European demographic, which is more serious if you want in Spain, but it is a problem for the whole Union. I conclude, Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with a final assessment. Socialists are proud of the Government's attitude towards this appointment, because it is constructive and because we are leading the search for solutions that the European Union needs. We thank the President again for coming to this House on a previous basis to report on all these matters and we wish him every success - which will be that of all the Spaniards - at his first European Council. I end by saying that Spain has finally returned to Europe. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u33	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, my parliamentary group has been calling for your urgent appearance before the plenary of this House to report both on your government programme and on the pacts you have reached with the populists, the independenceists, the PNV and the ETA heirs, who have taken you to the presidency of the government. [[Rumors]] We are obliged to make this request...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u36	... because you, Mr Sánchez, have not been elected President of the Government through an investiture process nor have you respected, as our Constitution demands, the constructive nature of the motion of censure by presenting any government program, but you and your partners have refused to do so. That is because his motion of censure was a political fraud and his political project is a personal project alien to the interests of the Spaniards. You have not explained for four weeks the price that the Spaniards will pay for their personal ambition to reach La Moncloa anyway, without winning the elections, which has no precedent in forty-one years of democracy. His only project is to pay for the various favors he promised those who made him president behind the backs of the Spanish people and this House. And we're already seeing it because every day you have to pay a new bill. Mr. Tardà this very morning has already marked his territory. It is not enough for them that you have questioned the Spanish Constitution and that you seem to want to break the constitutional pact of 78. It is not enough for them that you have announced that you will recover the articles of the Statute of Catalonia that the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional. On the 9th of July, Mr Sánchez, you intend to meet Mr Torra. I suggest that you suspend that meeting until Mr. Torra apologizes for his continuing offenses to the Spaniards and the king and clarifies here, Mr. Sánchez, whether or not you think Mr. Torra is a xenophobic supremacist. [[applause]] You, Mr Sánchez, have given up on a new model of autonomous financing for the whole of Spain, betraying even your own barons, because what it seems is that you reserve a bilateral model to negotiate with those who can give you backers here in this House. But I warn you, Mr Sánchez, the independenceists - and you have seen it today with Mr Tardà - will never be content because discontent is the social object of their existence. That is why I want to warn you: do not reward those who want to break Spain. [[Applauds]] You have already withdrawn the financial supervision of the Generalitat, you have allowed the Generalitat to open new embassies, Mr Borrell, not to do commercial policy - you know it - but to promote Hispanicophobia, which is what they have dedicated themselves to. [[Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, Borrell Fontelles, makes negative gestures]] How things change, Mr. Borrell, right? By the way, Mr Sánchez, I would like you to explain to me why you refused to intervene TV3 with the 155 following the coup d'état and your first and only legislative measure that we have known so far has been to pass an unconstitutional decree to assault Spanish Radio and Television, with the support of ERC and PDeCAT. [[Applauds]] You announced yesterday that you will use prison policy as a political currency of exchange to pay your favors to the independenceists, but the most serious thing is that you are also willing to pay terrorists and some to transfer them to prisons in the Basque Country. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Mrs López Álvarez and Elorza González and Mrs Cancela Rodríguez speak words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u37	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u38	Mr President, is this what you have negotiated with Mr Urkullu? [[Rumors]] Is this what you negotiated with Mr Urkullu so that Mr Urkullu decided to vote for you as President of the Government? [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u39	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u40	Your Honor, are you going to break the one-size-fits-all Social Security box, as the Basque nationalists ask you? Is this really the government of dignity that you have announced to us, Mr Sánchez? No, Mr Sánchez, this is nothing decent and, although you do not respect yourself, I demand more respect for the dignity of the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] You have already announced increases in public spending beyond what the State's General Budgets are, but I would like you to explain to us what the agreements you have entered into in your clandestine meetings in La Moncloa with Mr. Iglesias, this gentleman who comes here to talk about fighting fascism by forgetting that it is his partners in Italy and Greece who govern with the fascists or that you, Mr. Iglesias, are going to see the fascists in prison, as you did yesterday. [[Applauds]] So, please, enough hypocrisy, Mr. Iglesias, that we all know you here. Senos Sánchez, to date his government is a government of concessions, of pure marketing to cover his shames. You have taken many photos, that is, many photos, but you have failed to fulfil your first duty as President of the Government, which is to respond to the Spanish - whose sovereignty resides in this House - of their pacts and their agreements. He has refused to hold a debate on the state of the nation so that we could not know what the state of the nation you have inherited is. And he didn't and he doesn't because you don't have any projects. Today you wanted to point out a bit with the holding of this debate when the conclusions are already in place - right, Mr Borrell? - before the debate next weekend written, only to avoid your responsibility - yes, to avoid your responsibility - not to come to this House to appear on the issues that concern all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It is very good that we talk about Europe, but your first obligation, I remind you, is to talk here about the problems of the Spanish and the problems of Spain. That is your first obligation, Mr President. [[Applauds]] His absence here to talk about this is a lack of respect for the Spaniards, those Spaniards who defeated him in the polls. The next European Council will talk about the migration crisis. Oh, my God! Look, during the years of government of the Spanish People's Party it has proved to be a serious and solidarity country; we never left Europe, the ones that put us in the queue of Europe were the policies of the socialists, when we became, Mrs Lastra, a real problem for Europe. We have defended a common European policy on migration and asylum, following the principles of solidarity and responsibility. It is this model of preventing the loss of human life, of combating irregular immigration and the mafia, of supporting the stabilization and pacification of conflict zones - because it is precisely these problems that generate migration - of supporting countries from which people come and especially on the African continent. It was an initiative of the previous president, Mr Rajoy, the Africa Plan, that he seeks precisely to develop these countries. We believe that European resettlement and resettlement programmes should be speeded up. But, look, last week the Aquarius arrived in Spain, with more than 600 immigrants. You will not hear from the People's Group any criticism in humanitarian matters, none, but what we do not accept is that you use the arrival of the ship as a kind of media political reality, because while two of your ministers received this boat in the port of Valencia and their vice president lied saying that Valencia was the closest port to the Libyan coasts, our forces and state security bodies had to help that weekend 2200 immigrants - which would amount to four Aquarius - who arrived on the Andalusian coast after the announcement you made to bring here the Aquarius. [[Applauds]] And this weekend, 1,000 more immigrants have arrived on their feet. What are you going to do in the face of this situation, giving the same treatment to Aquarius immigrants as to those arriving on the coasts of Almería, Andalusia or the Canary Islands? What goal does it pursue by receiving immigrants from the Libyan coasts while looking elsewhere at immigrants who are massively reaching the Andalusian coasts? I remind you that our Navy has already saved more than 15,000 lives in the past two years and I want to take advantage of my words and my presence here today to thank the work of the State Security Forces, the Maritime Rescue Corps and the NGOs, which every day, without photos or publicity, risk their lives to save the lives of others. [[Applauds]] We're proud of all of them. Mr Sánchez, in us you will always find help in dealing with humanitarian crises, but, look, Mr Pérez Rubalcaba, who I do not think is a xenophobic, Mrs Lastra, said at the time: if we are lax with illegal emigration, there is no one to stop the avalanche. This is what you have unfortunately done by pointing the way to where the mafias are to direct their inhumane trade, our coasts, the Andalusian coasts. Therefore, I ask you in this matter less political vanity and more sensibleness. Mr Sánchez, it does not frivolize with a subject as serious as the migration issue, and less so when you have broken the first tradition of our international policy, consisting in the institutional visit to the Kingdom of Morocco, a kingdom that is a fundamental ally of Spain to fight against trafficking in human beings and terrorism and guarantees our security. Are you really going to take the concertinas off the border of Ceuta and Melilla? Do you think those ads favor Morocco's work to contain illegal immigration? Ladies and gentlemen, this European Council is also going to deal with the common European security and defence policy, a very important issue in which Spain has already made great efforts to become one of the countries with the most initiative and presence in such operations. Employment, growth and competitiveness policies are also targeted, those policies which have allowed Spain to grow in the last five years above 3% and create 2 700 000 jobs in our country, a policy quite different from that which you normally practice, which is precisely the opposite. Mr Sánchez, how easy it now seems to govern when one finds the public accounts and the General Budgets of the State approved by others, right? By the way, will you approve or will you bring to the House the spending ceiling for the year 2019, will you bring it? What is your budgetary policy going to be? Will you explain to this House the attempt to renegotiate with the European Commission the fulfilment of the deficit, an attempt which has received a great deal of no response because Spain must comply with its European commitments in the interests of stability? Are you going to do it or are you going to do what you want or what you agree with others you have managed to be president of the government? Innovation and digitisation are essential elements, in which we absolutely agree, but a vital issue is the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, and it will be the first European budget after the Brexit, which is why it is so important that we defend our common agricultural policy, especially because the common agricultural policy, Minister of Economy, is a policy that serves precisely for the vertebration of our territory and the development of agriculture and the rural world. I hope that you will change your mind now that you are Minister of Economy on what you held when you presented those budgets with those cuts. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today Mr Baldoví has come here to tell us about some photos and some people...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u41	Mr. Hernando, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u42	I conclude, Madam President. He forgot to tell us about the President of Valencia, whom Mr Sánchez, when he thanked the various Valencian institutions that had collaborated with the Aquarius, also forgot to mention, surely because he already knew that he had been arrested by the Civil Guard accused of corruption. Mr. Sanchez, are you going to take some kind of responsibility for that arrest? The same one you asked of others, will you assume it? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. My group will always be loyal to Spain, to the Constitution, to the King and to all Spaniards. While you owe your loyalty to the populists, to the independenceists and to the friends of the ETA it will be difficult that mission. As former President Adolfo Suárez said in 1977: those who reach power with demagogy end up paying the country a very expensive price. We're going to work to make sure that doesn't happen. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to respond to all the Members who have participated in this debate from minor to major, and I will therefore start with Mr Xuclà, representative of the PDECAT. First of all, I thank Mr Xuclà for the detail of acknowledging that the President of the Government has attended the Council's meeting in advance because I believe it is important and because this is how we approve this House of what is happening in other Chambers of the European Union, such as in Germany, where he appears before the Councils are held, so that, in this case, the Chancellor not only raises the political position of the Government, but also seeks the consensus of all the parliamentary forces. Let me therefore begin by thanking Mr Xuclà and the other parliamentary forces who have acknowledged this effort and change of attitude when appearing before the holding of this important council. Mr. Xuclà has spoken of the Aquarius. There is a reflection that I would like to transfer to all the parliamentary groups and that is that I refuse to believe that the Aquarius is a marketing gesture; on the contrary, it is a gesture of solidarity, it is a call to solidarity of the whole of the European Union. The best thing we can do is to ask those 620 human beings whether or not it is a marketing gesture to have offered Valencia as a safe port and that Spain has welcomed them. Obviously, what we saw in the Mediterranean as a result of that crisis was precisely that we were close to a human tragedy, so the Spanish Government - with the recognition that must be made to the State Security Forces and Bodies, to all the local and territorial administrations and, of course, also to the NGOs - gave an example of solidarity and called for solidarity to the whole of the European Union. By the way, we find ourselves in parameters completely different from those of other Governments that had that ship much closer and that, unfortunately, did not give the answer that to a large extent public opinion expected from them. It is true, Mr Xuclà said, that we must talk about not only a challenge, migration, which has to do with civil wars, political conflicts, war conflicts in some parts of Africa, but we are talking about a demographic reality. In this connection, we must remember that what you have said in figures and what I said in my first speech, but also that, for example, right now more than 50% of the Senegalese population - by putting the case of a country that suffers from this migratory pressure and comes not only to the Canary coast, but, through Morocco, to those of southern Spain - are people who are under 25 years of age. That is a demographic reality to which not only in the short term, but also in the medium, we have to find a solution from the whole of the European Union. What am I getting at with this? That we're not facing an effect called. Neither the Aquarius is a so-called effect nor is it, of course, that we convey a message of empathy, of respect for human rights, of commitment to the international conventions signed by Spain and the whole of the European Union, and to the values and principles that we, as Europeans, claim on many occasions when we speak with other parts of the world. This has nothing to do with the so-called effect, but with the demand for principles that we want to make our own in political practice when we talk about migration. I think Mr Xuclà is also right when he says that we have to raise the migration challenge in terms of responsibility and solidarity and in an integral policy. I participated for the first time as President of the Government in the mini-summit held last Sunday in Brussels and one of the issues that caught my attention most and which I thought was intelligent on the part of the European Commission - which was the organiser of this meeting - was to pose the migration challenge in three phases, each of which was perfectly intertwined with the other: we must first talk about the external dimension of migration policy - to which I will refer to in order to respond to the rest of the participants - we must also talk about the control of external borders, and we must talk about the secondary movements and, consequently, about what you have previously mentioned in relation to asylum and the alert we have to put in the event of a reform, in the form of an involution, of Schengen; finally, about the freedom of movement of all European citizens. Of course, we, Mr Xuclà, agree with all the progress that can be made in economic and monetary integration. I personally told President Macron and also Chancellor Merkel: we agree with that signature in Mesenberg, a small German town, where we are talking not only about the banking union but also about a euro area budget. I share with you and some of the speakers that we need to improve accountability and democratic control - some questions I will say about that later on - but in any case I want you to know that this is going to be the position of the Spanish Government on this issue as well. Mr. Baldoví has more or less been on the same line as Mr. Xuclà. I believe that the Valencian Europe, the Andalusian Europe, the Catalan Europe, the Madrid Europe, the Basque Europe, the Europe of many and each of the territories and localities actually turned to accommodate and care for the migrants of the Aquarius, as well as many others who come along the coasts of southern Spain and also the rising. I liked it very much, and I recognise it - and I have also wanted to say it, perhaps in a very synthetic way, in my first speech - and I share with Mr Baldoví that Spain is indeed a European country, also for historical reasons. And I also say because we look at Mexico, we remember Lázaro Cárdenas and we remember and we claim how countries like Mexico and other Latin American countries, in historical traumatic circumstances for Spain, what they did was precisely to welcome, and not only to welcome, but to integrate into social, political and economic life many Spaniards who today feel as Mexican as Spanish, as one sees when they have the opportunity to visit that country. Without a doubt, it seems to me very important that empathy exercise that you have expressed in your intervention. We want to make sure that, by saving all the distances, with our compatriots who are now outside Spain looking for life and working in other parts of Europe, in particular in Germany and the United Kingdom, or in other latitudes, that they are supportive, welcome, integrate and are not subject to discrimination but integration. Consequently, we too, insofar as we can, do so with the migrants who come from Africa. Mr Matute has made a reference to the same issues and a reference that I, although in some critical elements with decisions that the European Union has been able to make, cannot share. But he has done a reflection on Greece, or at least a restraint, and I would like to say that we salute - and we are part of that famous group called the Washington Group, where the economic situation and financial rescue to Greece has been dealt with - and it seems to us extraordinary news that there is finally an orderly exit from the Greek rescue programme. In this regard, I believe that the reflection we have to take is to take advantage of this exit also to take note and make the improvements that can be made in economic and monetary union so that these issues cannot happen again. Mr Alli speaks that this government is trying to demonstrate its power of dialogue, which we, of course, extend to the whole of the House. We in the European Union, in the mini-summit - and we are also going to do so on Thursday and Friday - can assure you that we are going to have a constructive and inclusive position. We are not going to teach anyone lessons; on the contrary, we are going to provide solutions, we are going to try to share experiences to improve migration policy in those three dimensions. We will be in solidarity with countries like Germany that were in solidarity with migrants or Syrian refugees in 2015 and 2016, and we will also call for that solidarity in relation to the strengthened dialogue with countries of origin and transit countries. With regard to the other issue you have raised, I understand that it is a sensitive issue for your party. The commitment of the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group I believe has always been the same. The ETA was defeated by democracy and, therefore, what we have to put as a government - that is our responsibility and for that I also call for the support of this House - is to review the prison policy and bring it into line with a new reality by being empathetic, of course, with the victims of terrorism. [[rumors]] The representative of Foro Asturias, Mr Martínez, spoke about energy policy and also about trade. With regard to trade, what I can assure you is that the position that we have expressed both to Chancellor Merkel and to the President of the French Republic - and of course we are going to make reference to this in the European Council - is that the European Union must remain united as a bloc, especially in dealing with the trade war that the US Administration is now putting forward not only to the European Union but also to other important countries, such as China, in the international trade order. We are concerned about this escalation because I believe that a trade war is of no interest to anyone and in the end they all lose, also the United States. I think we need to be very intelligent, and of course pragmatic on this issue, because we are talking about very important sectors also for our economy, indirectly for the automotive sector and for sectors linked to the primary sector. In this respect, we will be putting forward the unity of action of all European countries. As far as energy policy is concerned, Mr Martínez, I have to tell you that this government is proposing a fair transition; in short, it is about anticipating many of the effects that this energy transition in which the world, also the European Union, is immersed, and we are a Member State of the European Union, and what you have to feel these mining basins to which you referred in your intervention is solidarity and not feeling that the Spanish Government is turning their backs on them. That is what we are going to try to do; of course, that commitment is made by both Asturian society and the mining sector, and I would like you to see it as a representative of Foro Asturias. Ms Oramas referred to the migration crisis in Spain in 2006, 2007 and 2008. I would like to thank you, Mrs Oramas, and also by extension Mr Quevedo as representative of New Canarias, for the support you have expressed in your speeches for the position of the Government of Spain. I think it is important that we improve the dialogue with the autonomous communities, with the municipalities. I would like to express this commitment, particularly to you, Mrs Oramas, as representative of the force that you are currently governing in the Canary Islands; of course, we will inform the Autonomous Communities, we will improve cooperation and collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, in particular with those who are suffering more intensely from these migratory flows, and I know that the Canary Islands is one of them. I must say, Mrs Oramas, that one of the approaches I have made in private to European colleagues is that we need to strengthen that dialogue and cooperation with the countries of origin and with the countries of transit. I believe that we are going to make significant progress in the conclusions of the European Council, precisely with Morocco and also with Senegal, not only from the point of view of political declaration but also of economic resources. In this regard, I believe that the attitude that the Spanish Government has taken over over the last few weeks in the discussions that we have had with Germany and France, and also with the mini-summit, has been constructive, dialogueal, appealing to the responsibility of all and being aware that we are also being supportive with those countries, with Germany, but also with Italy, Malta, Greece and others, which can report additional resources and greater commitment on the part of the European Union in relation to the countries that you have mentioned. That is the will of the Government. I want you to know that we are on it and I hope that in the next few days or weeks we can have good news about it. I also thank Mr Quevedo for his tone and support. I share with you that we are indeed facing a European challenge that needs European support and joint response. It is obvious, Mr Quevedo, that there are countries of the European Union, such as those of the Visegrado club - which was not, by the way, present in the mini-summit we had last Sunday in Brussels - where talking about refugees, migration or solidarity on their part, when it comes to accepting this reality, is practically zero, is zero. By the way, Mr Hernando, who speaks so much and reproaches other political parties for his alignment with forces, let us say, of dubious democratic quality, must be reminded that, for example, Hungary is being presided over by an Orbán, who seems to me to be a brother of the European People's Party. [[Applauds]] But, finally, things look different according to who one is referring to. I thank Mr Esteban for his contribution, for his reflection. I agree with you that in fact those three dimensions - migration policy in its external dimension, border control and secondary movements - we have to deal with them in an integral way. I agree with you that what this Government is going to do is to put the long lights on and be very alert and very attentive to any kind of cut-off or involution that may occur within the framework of Schengen and the freedom of movement of persons. I think we can make some adjustments so that societies, such as the German one, see that in fact societies such as the Spanish one too are in solidarity with those asylum-seekers who are now in Germany, but who have first asked for their asylum in Spain, and I think that we can reach an agreement within the framework of the European Council - the government is working for it -. I share with you - I spoke precisely with the Lehendakari Urkullu last Monday - your concern for the MENA, who are suffering not only - but also and in particular in Vizcaya - in Euskadi but throughout the country, and I say to you the same thing I said to Mrs Oramas: We are committed to strengthening, in the area of our competences, coordination, cooperation, information, with all the autonomous communities and with the municipalities. This is a matter to which we will pay particular attention, particular priority. The only thing we are asking for is some time to sort out all the policies linked to the MENA; and of course I am alien to this bus that you commented you stopped in San Sebastian - already told me by a senator two weeks ago, the Senator of the Basque Nationalist Party in that House - and, therefore, I want you to know that we are on it. I agree with you absolutely on the issue of family reunification; and this is also a vital issue, when we are talking about asylum, when we are talking about secondary movements. This is a subject I have talked about in particular with Chancellor Merkel, I believe that Chancellor Merkel also empathizes with it and, of course, any kind of solution that we can give to secondary movements must respect this sacred principle of family reunification; we cannot allow something similar to what Trump has tried in the United States to happen in Europe and, in that sense, we will be there. With regard to both external and European platforms, the first thing about external platforms is that we need to know the proposal to be brought to the European Council by the President of the European Council. You know that this is a proposal by Mr Tusk, and right now we do not know exactly what the principles, the parameters of it are. It seems to us that this may be a good option, but we really need to see the detail, because the devil is precisely in the details, because we want to know what the principles are going to govern, whether they are going to respect the conventions we have signed on human rights. But, ultimately, it is true that we have to regulate that migration and that we have to prevent that migration. What I warned at that mini-summit in Brussels last Sunday is that the only message that the European Union cannot deliver is that the solution is to create platforms in third countries, among other things because there will be countries that do not accept such platforms, that understand that it is a violation of their national sovereignty and, therefore, I believe that the options have to be different, different. There are countries that can accept them and we need to see exactly under what parameters; I must tell you that there are different countries, among which we find ourselves, that we express our doubts as to exactly, first, what we are talking about, what principles, what would be the ways of addressing migration on these platforms. But we understand and empathize with the need to prevent such migration, to control it also in countries of origin and transit countries. We will wait to see what the European Council, the President in this case, is proposing, and I hope that we will be able to inform you later, once we know more about the details of them. As far as reception centres are concerned, an issue that was raised by President Macron at a meeting I had with him last Saturday and which also came out in the mini-summit, basically the idea, ladies and gentlemen, at least as I understood it and as I believe it was raised by President Macron, is that it is clear that every time there is an NGO ship in the Mediterranean there is a debate about which port is safe, there is a debate about where it has to dock that ship. There are countries that are not meeting that requirement. Italy, for example, has not done so in the case of Aquarius or Malta, nor has it done so in the case of Lifeline. Therefore, what I think the European Union needs to be aware of is that when it docks a ship in any country of the European Union, it is docking in Europe, it is not docking in Malta, Greece, Spain or any other country, and therefore the approach - at least what I perceived from President Macron's proposal - is to create safe European ports, i.e. to locate and locate certain safe ports along the Mediterranean where the answer would be European, not from that country. There are countries that have no capacity because they are outnumbered as a result of the influx of migrants and, therefore, what would be sought would be to give them a European response that is perfectly aligned with UNHCR and the International Organization for Migration, and that there would be staff with capacities in both reception and asylum and return policies, linked to the European Union and not to the country where these immigrants arrive. It is a germinal idea right now; it has nothing more than this that I have commented to you, but it seems to me that it is good for our country and it is good for the European Union, one, to locate and define which safe ports may be in the Mediterranean; two, to turn economic resources from the whole of the European Union because behind that logic what exists is an explanation that when these immigrants arrive, they are not arriving in Europe, they are not arriving in a Member State of the European Union, and three, that what we are proposing is a European vision and, consequently, solidarity with the phenomenon of migration. I'm telling you, it's an idea that's in diapers right now, for using a very colloquial term, and we're going to continue working on it over the next few months. One thing that seems to me to be substantive, and which I would like to share with the House on Mr Esteban's reflection, is that it is clear that the desirable thing would be to have an agreement to twenty-seven, but it is also true that it is very difficult in matters such as migration, when we have the reality that we have in central and northern Europe, with governments that refuse to participate in any issue that has to do with the reception of migrants. Therefore, the reflection that we have to reflect on - and I appeal to this House - is whether, since there is no consensus among all the Member States of the European Union, we hide behind this rhetoric, which runs the risk of becoming empty that since there is no European agreement we do nothing and let the border countries respond only with their resources, or if we start looking for dialogue and proposals between different countries of the European Union, and it is they who lead those responses. In this regard, one of the ideas put forward by different countries, including us, is that if there are countries that have experience in dialogue, dialogue and cooperation with other countries of transit or of origin, why not those countries that lead the dialogue, on behalf of the European Union, precisely to order migratory flows. Let me give an example, Italy-Libya, Spain-Morocco, Germany-Ghana; in short, I believe that there are options for the European Union, without the need to reach a majority consensus, to start providing short-term responses that serve to establish those foundations that can subsequently, in the medium term, build a more joint European Union response. This is the approach that I believe is going to take place in the next Council, which is beginning to have a dialogue between different countries with the countries of origin and with the countries of transit on behalf of the European Union. I am already telling you, Mr Esteban, that the approach of the Spanish Government is to lead, to the extent of our possibilities of course, that dialogue and cooperation with some of those countries of origin and transit on behalf of the European Union, and logically with economic resources behind and with the commitment of the European Union. I think it was an approach that was taken at the mini-summit and that can take shape in the coming days in the Council. It can be a pragmatic but effective position in addressing the issue of migration with common sense and respect for human rights, and Spain will be - that is my will - in this enhanced cooperation, if I may say so, in the area of migration. On the fiscal union, I have nothing to add to what you have said. On the subject of Gibraltar and the opportunity of the Gibraltar Field, I share with you that when you go to the Gibraltar Field and see your situation - in fact, in the first Council of Ministers that we had effective was one of the issues that we talked about and the Minister of the Interior is precisely on it - you realize the need to analyse how to resolve the presence of drug trafficking in the Gibraltar Field. This is a matter on which the Spanish Government is not going to look elsewhere. Let us look at it from the front, let us approach it from the front, being very aware that in the short term what we need is a police response guaranteeing public security, but of course we also need many more things that have to do with job creation, with the creation of opportunities and with comprehensive social policies. In this regard, I share with you that perhaps we have an opportunity to create those positive dynamics in the Field of Gibraltar. I want to tell you that we are not going to miss that opportunity and we are going to look at it also thinking of the neighbours of the Gibraltar Field, because on many occasions behind this rhetoric about the eternal debate we forget the people who are precisely living and suffering the consequences of that lack of dialogue. With regard to structured defence cooperation, we are indeed going to take part in President Macron's initiative on this European intervention; I think it is a good mechanism and, ultimately, it is only a further commitment to the construction of a common defence policy. Mr Tardà referred to my thoughts yesterday in Berlin. [[Pause]] Anyway, you can interpret those words of mine as you like, but I'll tell you what's inferring from the phrase I said yesterday. When I suggested that the page of October 1 should be passed, I meant the following: That day, on October 1st, as leader of the opposition, Mr Tardà, I went out to the Socialist Party headquarters on Ferraz Street to say that I condemned the images that had been seen and that some Catalan citizens had suffered that day. What I meant yesterday in Berlin, Mr Tardà - and that is how I want you to interpret my words - is what you also represented on 1 October - and that is what you in some way also forget on many occasions when you raise what happened on 1 October - and that is to end unilaterality. Unilaterality is what we have to move on to, Mr Tardà, because we have to talk about October 1st, but we also have to talk about September 6th and 7th, which were the steps before what happened on October 1st. And on September 6 and 7 what happened in the Catalonian Parliament was that a parliamentary majority of a majority social minority in Catalonia imposed its rules and unilaterally broke the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy in Catalonia. That is why, when I say that we have to move on, I mean that we have to end the unilateral way. In that regard, Mr Tardà, we do not consider the Constitution to be a narrow margin, a narrow field for dialogue and finding a solution to the crisis in Catalonia. On the contrary, the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, among other issues because they enjoy majority support for what you represented on 6 and 7 September in the Parliament of Catalonia, are the basis from which we can build a new consensus that responds to the crisis in Catalonia. That is the spirit with which we are going to address this reality. [[Applauds]] And in that sense, Mr Tardà, we have to learn all of our mistakes; you too have to learn from your mistakes, and on 6 and 7 September you made a mistake in the Parliament of Catalonia, and that must also be moved on. Finally, I believe that I have also responded to Mr Tardà in relation to the platforms and the doubts that he logically has, which I have also expressed in private to European colleagues, and we will see exactly what this issue is about. Mr Rivera, at last... you speak of the government... I, Mr Rivera, can assure you that this government is going to rule with Parliament, not against Parliament. [[rumors]] This government has lifted the parliamentary veto to many parliamentary initiatives that were adopted in this House and that the People's Parliamentary Group, with its active participation, vetoed - and vetoed you - as a result of their agreement. By the way, Mr Rivera, I am grateful to you that despite your very hard speech on the euthanasia bill, you were finally able to react and say yes to such an important initiative for this country yesterday. [[Applauds]] It will allow me, moreover, to say it with all due respect, but it gives the feeling that sometimes you inaugurate Spain every day, it seems that Spain did not exist before you came to this House. I would like more than anything to suggest that you do not make the mistake: the original recruitment was a model launched in 2004, Mr Rivera; it is not something you have invented, it has been invented for a long time, and it was precisely a socialist government that set it in motion, you better inform yourself, as well as the fight against irregular migration, which was logically fought precisely under a socialist government. In relation to his dialectical revulsion to the nationalists/populists, in short, to all those who want to break Europe, I join in the words of Mr. Iglesias. You seem to share a political family in the European Union with different nationalist parties, so show them at least due respect and do not come here to bring their own contradictions, because it makes it very easy for the rest of the House to recriminate them. As far as education is concerned, Mr Rivera, I am not going to let this go. We defend an education with resources, you without resources; we with resources, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if you are willing to force a consensus on education with resources to defend public education in this perfect country, you will have the empathy of the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. On the other hand, he talks about the Aquarius and more or less comes to say elegantly what Mr Hernando has said. What you are saying is that what the Aquarius has done has been to have a so-called effect on the Spanish coasts, and it seems to me, Mr Rivera, that that is precisely the selfishness and Europhobia that we have to combat at European level. [[Applauds]] Solidarity is never an effect called, Mr Rivera, solidarity is never an effect called. I give you the figures, but I also give them to Mr Hernando so that he can know them, because his party was until a few weeks ago ruling this country. I have said this before, in my first speech, Mr Hernando, Mr Rivera, in 2017 the increase in migrants arriving on the Spanish coast was one hundred percent over 2016; perhaps there was some migrant who thought that the Socialist Party was going to rule in 2018, but it does not seem credible, Mr Rivera. In 2018 the increase has been 64%, so we are not talking about the effect called, Mr Rivera, Mr Hernando, what we are talking about is the runaway effect, of many migrants of a social reality that is unacceptable to them. Consequently, the Socialist Government did nothing but look away from the Aquarius and turn into a humanitarian tragedy what some countries with their indifference were indirectly achieving. With regard to trade, Mr Rivera, the position of the Spanish Government will be clear; it will be the defence of social rights, labour rights and environmental rights and, consequently, also the construction of conflict resolution mechanisms at the international level which, among other issues, does not and does not place large corporations on an unequal footing vis-à-vis small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or citizens when responding to the conflict resolution mechanisms that are currently under way by international treaties. This is the fundamental issue, Mr Rivera. With regard to CETA, we believe that the mechanism that had been put in place did not guarantee equality between companies in order to be able to sue or articulate responses to some of the commercial effects of this free trade agreement. But I will tell you one thing, if that is solved, Mr Rivera, we are not against free trade; we are against free trade, which is to reduce social rights, to reduce labour rights and to reduce environmental rights, among other things, Mr Rivera, because what they do is to change the treaties of the European Union by the back door. I thank Mr Iglesias, of course, for his appearance, the tone and the words you have mentioned. I say again that it is not a marketing issue and we do not fall into that trap of conservative parties and parliamentary groups. The Aquarius gesture was not a marketing gesture, it was a humanitarian gesture, it was to put on the table a reality to which the Mediterranean countries such as Malta and Italy were not responding in this case, and Spain showed its solidarity. I said in my first speech, and I maintain it, that it was logically an exceptional measure because it is true, as you have well commented in your speech, that Aquarius reaches us every week to the uprising and to the south of Spain. It is true, and I said this in my first speech, that, of course, we are very proud and have acknowledged the work of all the cities and of all the autonomous governments in relation to the response to the Aquarius and the migrant reality that comes to our shores. I have to tell you, about the CIEs, that our position is to collect the mandate of the Congress of Deputies and to review the conditions under which migrants are in the CIEs, but I have to tell you, Mr. Iglesias, that we are not in favour of closing the CIEs; another issue is to improve the government's response capacity in these CIEs, but we need places where we logically care for migrants arriving at our shores. I agree with you that we need to reform the Dublin Rules of Procedure. I agree with you that we really need to strengthen the euro area, the issue of Community budgets. I am not aware that it has disappeared from the agenda, but what I can assure you, Mr Iglesias, is that it is not for the Government of Spain. The Spanish Government is defending a strong political declaration in this regard and I imagine that, if that has happened or finally happens, it will be by rejection of countries in the north and the centre of Europe that do not agree to move towards greater integration. As for the references you have made, of course, Portugal for us is a mirror of many things that we have to look at. I repeat, since you said that there is no other socialist party ruling, that there is the Socialist Party in Sweden. The Swedish Socialist Party is ruling and you also know that, thanks to the Swedish impetus, an important summit was held in Gothenburg, which set up the social pillar in the European Union. In any case, I think it is important to make reference, and I share it with you, to the need to create European unemployment insurance, the need to strengthen fiscal union and, of course, also to improve accountability. The debate there, Mr. Iglesias, you know, is how this accountability is articulated. Creating a Parliament of the euro area countries other than the European Parliament? There are different positions on the part of different countries and we will be moving towards democratic deepening, transparency and accountability in relation to European policies linked to the euro. Mr Hernando, I answer you and you do not listen to me; this is the question. As for loyalty, I told you at the first control session, I think we should have it for the state not only when one is in the government, but also when one is in the opposition. I remember that not long ago, in 2016, you defended what you called the Spanish Government's dialogue with the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Then you said that there was a lot to talk about, a lot of dialogue, a lot of compromise, a lot of consensus. And they said again in 2017 that we had to talk a lot, that we had to have a correct and fluid relationship. Dialogue must continue for the sake of the Catalans, you said in the years 2016 and 2017. Then there was no criticism of any member of the People's Parliamentary Group or of the Government or members associated with the People's Party. That does not surprise me, but I stress something to you, Mr Hernando: There was no criticism from the Socialist Parliamentary Group or the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party either, because what we wanted was for this dialogue with the Catalan institutions to prosper. [[Applauds]] I do not ask the Government of Spain for loyalty because I know I will not have it. In a very short space of time we have again seen the ghosts you brought to this House in relation to the victims of terrorism and the violence of ETA in the Basque Country, linking it not dialectically, but irresponsibly to issues that have nothing to do with it, such as the situation in Catalonia. I ask you - I insist - to lead the opposition, but not the rift, because I will tell you one thing, Mr Hernando: In relation to Catalonia, right now you are in a process of renewing your leadership, which I respect, which I respect. - I'm starting from that fact. In the seats they have a candidate for that renewal process who defends constitutional reform to resolve the Catalan issue; they have the doer of the dialogue operation to which I referred earlier; they have another candidate who says that 155 had to have been applied long before. What I want to say to you with this, Mr Hernando, is that you do not have a speech for Catalonia. You have been overcome by your own failure in territorial politics and what I ask of you is a sense of state, responsibility, and support for this Government to resolve a question that you have also been doing. [[Applauds]] I am not saying this to you, but to the candidates of that renewal process. I do not know what is going to happen at that congress; all I ask of you, Mr Hernando, is that your party recovers the compass on this issue as soon as possible. And don't get comfortable. What is comfortable is, Mr Hernando, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, to say that nothing has happened here, the People's Party has nothing to do with and we return to territorial aggravation, territorial conflict, reproach and falsely accuse this Government of breaking the country and territorial coexistence. You know it's not true, it's a lie, and all I ask is that you don't take refuge in the comfortable. Look in the mirror, learn from your mistakes, make self-criticism and be loyal to the state. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Hernando, because the rest are topical, the only thing I agree with you - I have pointed out here - is to thank the State Security Forces and Bodies for their work in managing migratory flows. And since you have asked what we are going to do with the 2018 general budgets and whether or not we are going to meet the deficit, I believe that the Minister of Economy said at the Luxembourg summit - and myself to all the European colleagues I have had the opportunity to talk to, as well as in my first intervention - that we are going to meet its objectives and its commitments to fiscal consolidation. Mr. Hernando, do yourself a little self-criticism. The AIReF, the European Commission, the Bank of Spain, all the study services in this country when you approved the draft budgets said that their public deficit targets were very difficult to achieve. I understand that it is now in the opposition and that it has to be demanding with the Government, but again on the issue of budgets, as in the Catalan one, do not apply the law of the funnel: very wide for you and very narrow for the rest. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u45	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u46	Thank you, Madam President. In the face of this debate, which was to be about the European summit, I will focus on the European summit, Mr President, which I believe is what we have come to today. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u47	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u48	I share your prevention. I know that there is an indefinition, which Mr Tusk will have to clarify, about what the proposal is and I imagine that all the groups will have to be heard there, but the idea of these platforms, in principle, does not have to be discarded. We must, of course, ensure that human rights are respected. [[Rumors]] And so, that the human rights problems and violations that are occurring now - from the traffic carried out by some mafias to abuses, trafficking, etc. - in countries like Libya...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u49	Mr Esteban, for a moment, that I am going to ask your ladies and gentlemen to take their seats or leave the Chamber and that, please, we can listen to the speaker, who I believe deserves respect. Go on now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u50	Thank you, Madam President. He said that, of course, it was necessary to ensure that all guarantees and human rights were respected. I think it is a positive idea that of safe ports, as you have explained, which are not really country ports, they are European ports. I think it's a good idea to develop. But you were asking - and that is what worries me about all this and what can come out of the summit - whether beyond the agreement of all countries we would have to move forward. The answer is a consistent yes. I don't think anyone is going to say no, but that means that we are going to go back, once again, to mere enhanced cooperation. And I think that then the famous SECA, the Common European Asylum System, is going to stay in nothing again. There have been many promises of progress, but in the end it seems that we will remain in that strengthened cooperation and nothing more. I know that this is not the exact definition but I was telling him that we have to turn migration policy into a treaty policy. Therefore, it seems to me that we can go back to being short and we are not going to reach a common policy, a policy in which the asylum criteria are common and are made by the European officials and institutions themselves, in which there are a number of obligations for the Member States. In that regard, it is also essential to talk about economic emigration and economic emigration quotas, because if not, we are confusing everything. And when these quotas are met, we have to say that up to that point Europe can get there or fix what can be dealt with year by year, but we cannot confuse one thing with the other, and I believe that there is a certain amount of teaching in public opinion on this issue. Finally, you spoke about the countries that already have experience - and I understand this - and above all about a deep dialogue in the Spanish case with Morocco and also with Senegal. Much progress was made starting with the Governments of Rodriguez Zapatero and continued with Mr. Rajoy's Governments. I understand that. I think that's a first step, but it's not just Morocco anymore, it's Mali, it's Niger, it's Ghana, it's Guinea... There has been a very large increase since Guinea in recent times. Here's the whole subject of the French-speaking area and the Francophonie. I imagine that just as Spain will carry out this dialogue with Morocco - with the weight that France has in relations with Morocco -, with Senegal it will be France that bears the weight. I wonder whether in the end all Europeans will be able to understand that this does not have to be an area of influence by francophony or by relations in another country, but it has to be an area of European relations and a European policy. Therefore, I share with you that that may be a first step, but we have to move as soon as possible to the second. In short, this Basque nationalist, whom one - I will not mention the name because we all know him - has detested him as an anti-Europeanist, what he is asking him to do is to make a common European policy. And no, as that same person has demanded, let Spain decide, that it see what is right for it. No, let's decide between all of us. Let Spain, of course, give its point of view, but for migration policy to be a really common policy. This is the salvation of Europe and the future of our societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u51	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Telegraphically, Mr. President. On 1 October, 2,300,000 persons exercised the right to self-determination in a referendum. And if you tell me about the 6th and 7th of September by appealing to that previous thing - you have every right to appeal to that - I could also tell you that before here, with the support of three quarters of the Parliament of Catalonia, you came and asked for permission to make a referendum, but you did not just attend to reasons as to be able to take the proposal and then put the conditions that you considered appropriate, for example that it was only consultative. I mean, if we go ahead and stop at a specific point, we make a trap, at least intellectual. Yesterday was a mistake because 2 300 000 people have been expelled from the dialogue. I think it is a big mistake and you will soon realize that. Turning to other issues, was the Aquarius an act of solidarity? Yes, and we were the first or almost the first to applaud him. Moreover, the City Council of Barcelona, Mayor Colau and the Government of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia made themselves available to do whatever was deemed appropriate. But other things must also be recognized. For example, of the 17,000 refugees committed, the Spanish State has only assumed 2800. In 2017 there were 31,120 asylum applications, of which only 8,675, 35%, 10 points below the European Union. And now there are 42,000 unsolved files. I point to your theory of analyzing things from the point of view of the previous. Do you know what the previous thing is? The law adopted by the Socialist Party in 2009. You'll tell me I'm cheating but they're the same ones you've tried to cheat on me. In 2009, the Spanish Asylum Act, which is one of the most restrictive in Europe, was adopted, and in 2008, the previous year, do you know what the figures are? In 2008, Berlusconi Italy assumed 10,000 asylum-seekers. Do you know how many asylum-seekers the Spanish State assumed in 2008 with the Zapatero government? 151. The Berlusconi knife, 10,000; the Government of Zapatero, 151. I mean, don't come up with the trap of looking for the previous because then I'll pull out the previous. In 2008, 151 asylum-seekers compared to the 10,000 in Berlusconi, and in 2009 they make the law, perhaps the most restrictive in Europe. Sure! And where are we now? For at a time when the People's Party has allowed itself the luxury of doing what it has done with refugees. I repeat, commitment, 17,000 and has only been accepted at 2800. I'm done. I know it has nothing to do with this, but if plurality and respect for minorities are a value of civilization, a democratic value, you should try to make sure that the new European electoral law does not mark a list, because minorities will be left out, yes, national minorities. Do not do as Mr Rivera, who would like us not to exist there or here, or as Mr Erdogan, who has dared to put on a 10% list so that the Kurds do not have any democratic representation. By the way, it went wrong, the Kurds took out 11%, but the will was the same: Erdogan, Rivera... [[Laughter]] Erdogán, Rivera, what's going on? [[Applauds]] If they call us racists, antifascists; if the antifascists call us racists... We're already in the world backwards. I believe that you too should commit to pluralities. It cannot be that the new electoral law sets a bar so that national minorities, said in European terms regional minorities, can not only be represented in Europe. I know it's not part of the script, but if you could get a little wet, we'd appreciate it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u53	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u54	Thank you, President. In these five minutes, I would like to make a preliminary clarification to Mrs Lastra, who has been confused in the rostrum. Mrs Lastra may not know it, as she does not know the Constitution of Bolivia, which compared it to that of Spain, the nation of nations, but I would like to say that, in fact, many European countries do not debate the bar or the soil that must be used to enter parliaments because it is already approved. [[Applauds]] I will read it: in Germany, 5% must be exceeded; in Poland, 5%; in Norway, 4%; in Finland, 3%; in Austria, 4%; in Bulgaria, 4%; in Hungary, 4%; in Croatia, 5%; in Slovakia, 3%; in Estonia, 5%; and in Spain, there is no. That's why we need to talk about it here. I know that you have as partners the separatists, who do not like having to have national interest in a national chamber. For that there is the Senate, which says in the Constitution that it is a territorial chamber. And yes, Citizens and many Spaniards think that this House has to come to talk about Spain and Europe, and what unites us, not what divides us. [[Applauds]] It has therefore become clear to me that Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party are against the fact that the Senate is a territorial chamber, they are against what all the countries of Europe have done and what is being discussed in Europe, which is about the entry strip into the European Parliament. Or didn't you find out? When you meet in Europe no one has explained to you that this is one of the most important debates today in Europe: whether there are transnational lists, whether there is a 3% or 5% threshold? That is what is being discussed, what Mr Sánchez, Mrs Lastra, Mr Torra and Mr Tardà do not like, but it seems to us that, in order to approve Europe, there must be a minimum of general interest in this House. For anyone who wants to come to liquidate this country, there is a House called Senate, which is territorial, where they have representation, as they have it in Germany or elsewhere. Therefore, we have no complex to defend that this is the House of Representatives of National Sovereignty and that the Senate is the House of Territorial Representation, which is what bicameral countries and countries with a system like Spanish do. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I would like to make a clarification - Mr Tardà said - that the one who says that all of us in this House are beasts with genetic taras is his president, Mr Tardà, Mr Torra. It's a xenophobic, it's a racist and it's, unfortunately, the president of the Generalitat. [[Applauds]] So, in fact, you can add Erdogan, Mr Torra and Mr Salvini, who are from the North League, your partner in Italy, but to those who defend freedom, equality and union in Europe, you never join us with you. We don't have any complexes, it doesn't happen to us like the PSOE. They are our opponents, yes, it is true; nationalism and populism - I said it before and I say it again - are our opponents, they want to destroy Europe, they want to create new borders between Europeans and we will not allow it. We are going to be the dam of containment of Europeanism and constitutional freedom in Spain. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez I understand that he does not rectify his position and is still against free trade, because he is certainly questioning the treaty with more guarantees than have ever been signed between the European Union and a third country, which is Canada. You, Mr Sánchez, are telling me that there are no guarantees in the CETA Treaty with Canada. Have you really read that treaty, have you been informed of that treaty and come to say that that is bad for Spain? There are many SMEs, a lot of startups, a lot of Spanish workers who will benefit from not having tariffs, from not having barriers. We're fighting Trump because he puts a tariff on olives, aren't we? Or do you like tariffs? [[Applauds]] Therefore, where there is trade there is civilization; where there is trade there is freedom; where there is trade there is prosperity. Everyone who opposes, like you, free trade is wrong. Rectify, Mr Sánchez, it is wise; rectify and move on to support treaties such as Mercosur - which is being negotiated with Argentina, Brazil, and other countries - Japan, Mexico. The anti-trade position leaves it for your partner, for Mr Iglesias, who is better off, but the Socialist Party should rectify its position, which has not understood anyone in Europe. I would like to see the President of my country, at least for a while, in a position consistent with what Spain represents in free trade and freedom in Europe. To finish this intervention, in the short time I have: education, Mr Sánchez. You are the person who has dynamized the only attempt at pact for education in forty years in Spain; you ordered your party, working your colleagues in this House and you out of here, from Ferraz, to rise from the pact that had the hope of the educational community, of many parents and of many people. You boosted the opportunity for consensus on an educational law after eight bad educational reforms that make Spain lead early school dropouts. I cannot settle as you, Mr Sánchez, in leading early school leaving; I do not settle as you lead job insecurity or unemployment, as socialist or conservative policies lead you in thirty years. We must be more ambitious, Mr Sánchez. Beyond clinging to the armchair, beyond the photos you have to have a project for Spain and a project for Europe, and today you leave here without telling us what your immigration policy is. He's only been a commentator for the rest of the positions. Are you in favour of a quota immigration policy, as proposed by the PNV? Are you in favour of what is happening today, that it is doing nothing and that irregular migratory flows come and that the mafia take advantage of it? You are going to go to the European Council, you are going to ask us for a mandate and we do not know what you are going to defend, nor the national and European immigration policy. You have not yet explained to us what you are going to do in your Government; after more than a month there is no government plan. A president who comes through the back door and does not explain his government plan and, moreover, has no policies for education, employment, immigration, which are the main debates of the twenty-first century. So Spain needs, sooner or later, to choose a strong government, a reformist government, a government with a constitutionalist parliamentary majority and not to be mortgaged by Mr Torra, who are the Salvini, to understand us, of national politics. Therefore, we, Mr Sánchez, if you rectify, if you stop going by the hand of the nationalists and want to go back with the constitutionalists, you will find us; you will find us in Europe and you will find us by the hand in this Parliament. If in order for you to be president for a few months, without going through the polls, you have decided to put yourself in the hands of Torra, Mr Rufián, Mr Tardà, the Spanish Salvini, do not count on us because we will be your opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u55	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor. [[Mr Campuzano i Canadés asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u56	I refer to Rule 71(3) of the Rules of Procedure. There have again been statements and insults that affect the decorum and dignity of many of the Catalan Members of this plenary. I ask you, Madam President, to ask Mr Rivera to withdraw the accusations he has made to Mr Torra, President of the Generalitat. And I announce, Madam President, that every time the President of the Generalitat is qualified that way, we are going to stand up and ask that these expressions not be used. Out of respect for everyone and out of respect for the figure of the president of all Catalans, also Mr Rivera. [[Mr Girauta Vidal makes negative signs.-A Member of Parliament: No!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u57	I give the floor to Mr Rivera to respond expressly to what Mr Campuzano has requested.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u58	When Mr. Torra withdraws his articles calling us wild beasts, I will withdraw my statements; while, he is a xenophobic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u59	Mr Turrion Churches has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, I thank you for the tone and for having taken up some of our proposals. In particular, I thank you for what you said about the treaties... [[Rumors]] Can you hear it now? [[Several Members: No]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u61	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I was saying, Mr President, that I thank you for the tone and that you have picked up some of our proposals. I thank him for what he said about free trade treaties. One of the good things that brought his recovery from the General Secretariat of the Socialist Party is the change in his party's position on CETA. It is a good thing for those of us who defend the sovereignty that you have put in the first place when talking about free trade treaties about labour and social rights. It is right not to trust Mr Rivera when he makes recipes about Europe. I said in my first speech that they share a parliamentary group with the PDECAT and the PNV. But let us not forget that those who are now talking about populism and xenophobia presented themselves to the European elections with an extreme right-wing force, with Libertas. [[Applauds]] With regard to the Aquarius, we commend the Government's courage in this matter. In no case have we described it as marketing, but we do say that refugee policy cannot be marketing and has to go beyond that. When I pointed out to him the difficulties that our country's municipalities are having in taking on humanitarian aid tasks that fall under the competence of the Government, I asked him not only to recognize and commend that work of the municipalities, but to contribute to it by unlocking the European funds that are earmarked for this issue. [[Applauds]] In addition, it is necessary to organize a specific plan for the care of refugees in our country that deals not only with circumstances that acquire media relevance, but also with a continuous reality that makes our country reach migrants and refugees every day. With regard to accountability in Europe, you were saying something that I think needs to be done. I was talking about making a new European Parliament and I do not think so; I believe that the current European Parliament could extend its powers. Unfortunately, we have a European Parliament which, at best, is a colegislative House. We could bet on strengthening the legislative and control powers of government at European level by the only area that represents the will of Europeans. One of the great historical problems of the European Union is its democratic deficit in that there are very few institutions under the control of European citizens. Let us strengthen the European Parliament. We have often said that it is unacceptable that the monetary policy of the Union as a whole is in the hands of a central bank which does not respond to democratic controls. That is why the European Parliament has to be here. One last thing that seems very important to me, about the CIEs. You said that migrants must be cared for in our country. I understand that the CIEs are not centers of attention, but of detention, but since we do not agree on this, I make a concrete proposal, and it is that we visit together, by surprise, a CIE. Nelson Mandela said you don't know your country until you know the prisons in your country. I think it is impossible to know Europe without knowing the CIEs. I propose that you and I, by surprise, visit a centre of these characteristics and see if, in fact, they are centres of care and reception or if, on the contrary, they are detention centres. I believe that the image in Europe of a president visiting by surprise a CIE is the image that Spain deserves to give by proving that things can be done differently. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u63	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I, like Mr Esteban, thought we were coming to a debate on the European Council and we met with a mini-debate from the state of the nation. Let's talk. By the way, talking about Europe is talking about Spain because, oh, surprise!, Spain is part of Europe. So to those who started this debate saying that the president had to talk about Spain, I have to tell them what he was doing, to talk about Spain and the problems of the Spaniards, who are also those of the rest of the European Union. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, you have to decide whether you are a collaborator of this government, critical if you want, or obstructive, because in recent weeks, in recent times and in today's debate, what has become clear is that you prefer to be an opposition and you will try to be a leader of that opposition and that is why you will fight with the People's Party. Let me tell you one thing: to solve Spain's territorial problems we need dialogue and to do politics, and that is not done by taking out half of the parliamentary groups in this House, precisely from this House, because they also represent the Spaniards. [[applause]] It seems that when you put on the glasses of seeing Spanish it discriminates between Spaniards who vote for you and Spaniards who vote for the rest of the political forces in this Chamber. So to him who passes the notes, let him have a good time, please. Do you know how half of the members of the German Bundestag are elected? By districts smaller than the Spanish districts. [[Applauds]] Therefore, rigor also when you rise to this rostrum. Mr Hernando, there are three consensuses that the Socialist Party has always brought to this House, there are three issues on which the large parties have always understood each other and to which at least the Socialist Party has always been loyal, and that is when we talk about Europe, when we talk about the anti-terrorist struggle and when we talk about the defence of the Constitution and the territorial integrity of the State. And you, in ten minutes, have put those three issues precisely at risk and questioned the State and questioned the Government in what we are doing. I'm just going to give you one piece of information. Do you know who was the president of the government that most prisoners approached Euskadi? His name was José María Aznar and he was from the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I will ask you, Mr Hernando, gentlemen of the People's Party, to be at least as loyal as the Socialist Party was when we were in the opposition. You know that we have been loyal in everything, in anti-terrorist policy, in European policy, and also, of course, in defending the Constitution and the territorial integrity of our country. When I listened to your speech on immigration, Mr Hernando - and don't take this the wrong way - I was very concerned, especially when I saw the reactions of your parliamentary group, because, look, it seemed that more than supporting María Dolores de Cospedal, Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, Pablo Casado or the other two members of his party who presented themselves to his primary, you were supporting Salvini, and that is what worries me as Spanish and as a citizen. [[Applauds]] Finally - and I conclude with this, Madam President - by loyalty to the State, by loyalty to Spain, modulate your speech, above all so that you do not happen to your constituents what has happened to your affiliates, Mr Hernando. [[Applauds]] Mr President of the Government, you can go to the European Council with the assurance that the majority of the Spaniards represented here have the vocation of having Spain again play a role in the construction of Europe and have our full support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u65	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I believe that you, in a sign of eloquence, have defined very well what your policy in Europe is going to be. I know that you have escaped, but you have said it very clearly, he said: let's see there, let's see what they tell us. Well, this really defines your position in Europe, and the problem you have, Mr Sánchez, is that you arrive in Brussels with minimal credibility. Let us remember that you premiered as secretary general of your party by deciding to break the investment agreement in the European institutions against not only the position of Spain, of the Spanish Government, which you say was so loyal, but also the position of your own Socialist Parliamentary Group in the European Parliament. Right, Mr. Borrell, that you remember this? Yes, you remember very well. Mr Sánchez, you speak of loyalty and we have maintained loyalty to the opposition, we are not the ones who are not, no, we are not the ones who refused to have a government in this country, it was you and that is why your party threw it out of the window, and that is why we started a policy of dialogue with you to adopt here in Parliament important measures that have benefited the Spaniards; and that is why we talked to you about our position in Catalonia and listened to you in your position in Catalonia and were loyal to you. Who have you spoken to about my party since you were President of the Government to do the policy you are doing on Basque prisoners? You don't know with whom? [[Applauds]] Well, the other day I think he said he had to talk to me; I guess it was a way out of his bank leg to try to justify an answer. If you want to talk to the People's Party and be loyal to democracy, to Parliament and to what the Spanish have voted for, you can do so, I have the telephone open, I will talk to you; but if you don't call me or you don't call the People's Party, because look at you, don't come here and give lessons in loyalty or dialogue. Yes, of course we started a dialogue operation after the June elections; we started it in Catalonia with your agreement; well, you were no longer here, but with the agreement of those who were here on your behalf, right?, of those who put you to the opposition. By the way, Mr. Sánchez, we're not one to hide the ballot boxes so people don't vote for the federal executives, that's great for you. [[Applauds]] Look, we started that operation as well as we started a dialogue operation with you, of course, because we had to dialogue to make majorities, to make the reforms that Spain needed, to continue generating employment in our country, of course, of course. And the dialogue operation failed; it failed because those gentlemen, as I have already told you, are ultimately insatiable and their only social object is to violate the Constitution, and the problem you have is that you are willing to pay that price to stay screwed to that chair, that is the problem you have and that is the problem that Spain has, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] You've been talking about immigration. You have told here some things that are certainly shocking, because you reproach Mr Rivera that politics began yesterday, it seems that politics also began for you when you came to this Parliament. But, look, this from the original contracts already existed when Felipe González. You know, what existed with Zapatero was the zero contingent. That's what Mr. Zapatero imposed, and you know why? Because it destroyed one and a half million immigrant jobs in this country and three and a half million jobs for all Spaniards, that's why it changed that policy and changed to the zero quota. So, look, check it out. He talked about the number of immigrants in 2017 in relation to 2016 who have arrived at our shores, but the problem is not that, the problem is that in the three weeks we have already been, they are arriving at our shores more immigrants than they have arrived in the whole of 2017! This is the problem, the problem is that you have acted with enormous frivolity. You have not respected the Kingdom of Morocco. You have done nothing in favour of that country that is doing so much for Spain to take care of our backyard in terms of immigration and security. [[Rumors]] Yes, and fight terrorism. Yes, gentlemen of Podemos. I know that you like Iran, Nicaragua, Venezuela... Those are his models, yes. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, we are a party that has done great things for Spain and we will continue to do them. If you want to talk to us, talk to us; if you're going to do what you're going to do is rule on decrees to skip the Constitution, don't count on us. If you are not able to rise to this rostrum once and for all to explain to us what your pacts are with the independenceists, with the populists of Podemos or with the lords of Bildu, you will not be legitimized to speak with us or to ask loyalty either to us or to the rest of the Spaniards. Nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u67	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u68	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban, for your thoughts. I believe that, indeed, with all the precautions that you have commented on, we must have a pragmatic position and approach on how to respond in the short, very short term to what is happening right now on the European coasts and, therefore, enhanced cooperation can be a good starting point, but we must look much longer-term and forge that necessary consensus at European level. I think it is going to be very difficult at European level, because of the so-called positions that exist right now in some governments in central and northern Europe, oh by chance!, many of them linked to the family of the European People's Party, but that is another issue. In any case, what we have to do is try to put forward policies in the short and medium term. You have also spoken about the medium term, and I have to say that if you look at the volumes of resources that the European Union is turning to aid in development cooperation, you see that we are the continent that most economic resources in development cooperation are turning to Africa. There are therefore two objectives in migration policy that we share, and you implicitly said this: we need to stabilize economically, socially and politically many of these countries to find opportunities in their countries, but, logically, in the short term, what we need to do is to put in place instruments to improve the capacities of these countries of origin and transit to prevent the arrival of these migratory flows. In that regard, it should be recalled that the European Union itself established a trust fund to assist Africa precisely to expand and strengthen the capacities of these countries of transit and of origin. What's the reality? The reality is that this trust fund has poured much more economic resources into the Central Mediterranean, in Libya, precisely to curb and order the migratory flows from that route and, instead, in the trust fund linked to the countries of North Africa, which are on the Western Mediterranean route, it has not happened the same. This is one of the issues that I also put on the table for all European colleagues. I believe that this situation will be able to be reversed and rectified over the next few months, and that is what the Spanish Government is working on. Therefore, medium and short term; in the short term there are instruments that have been put in place for a long time through the famous Council of Valletta and in which we want to continue to deepen, so we have asked the European Commission to strengthen the economic resources of this trust fund and to return more resources to the Western Mediterranean route, which is the one that most affects us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u69	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u70	I believe that we will be able to achieve that and, in any case, what I can transfer to you is that the Government is working on this issue. With regard to the reform of the SECA, we have the same approach as you have commented on. Let's see if we can continue... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u71	One moment, Mr. President, one moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u72	Let us see if we can continue with the reform of this European asylum service and, within that, we will have to talk about quotas and economic migration. Mr Tardà, what I want to say to you and to the parliamentary group you represent is that my obligation as President of the Government, and I believe that the obligation of all parliamentary groups, and uniquely of those who are now having responsibilities in the Government of the Generalitat, is to establish and lay the foundations for dialogue, so that neither a 6 nor a 7 September nor a 1 October will occur again in Catalonia. In this regard, the Government of the Socialist Party is open to talk, to dialogue, to establish cooperative dynamics. The spirit, spirit and attitude with which the Socialist Government is going to go to the meeting we have on 9 July with the President of the Generalitat is this and we hope to find that attitude also on the part of the Government of the Generalitat. It is clear that there are still many things that separate us, Mr Tardà, many things, but it is also evident, as I said in my first speech, that we have to learn from our mistakes, all of you, too. In this sense, abandoning the unilateral channels, sitting down to speak from the places that Catalans themselves and Spanish society have placed as places of consensus, such as the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia or the Spanish Constitution, I think it is a good starting point. I am very aware, Mr Tardà, that this is not going to be fixed by you and me in one, two or three months, and probably not in this legislature, but it is also clear that the level of confrontation, the level of worsening of the crisis over the last few weeks has been relaxed and we have to continue along that line. Of course, for our part that is the attitude and the political line that we are going to continue and we would like to find in the Government of the Generalitat that same attitude. I share with you that removing the voice of minorities is not the same as democratic regimes, and I can assure you that the approach that has been taken by some minority parliamentary group with regard to the amendment of the Electoral Law will not count on the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. With regard to Mr Rivera, I do not know very well who you are talking to about the education community, I do not know, probably more with those who talk to the People's Parliamentary Group, but I can assure you, Mr Rivera, that when the Socialist Parliamentary Group rose from the table and said that this would continue until economic resources were put in place to reverse a situation and a dynamic that led to the recovery of the levels of investment in public education in 2008 in 2025 - which was what the previous Government proposed with the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - the education community in bloc and overwhelmingly majority supported the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Therefore, if you want to have economic resources for a strong, equitable and excellent educational model you will have the support and understanding of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but as far as the deterioration of the quality of our teaching is concerned you will certainly not do so. On migration policy, Mr Rivera, I say the same as I am going to say to Mr Hernando; I say this with all due respect and also with the pride of having gone as President of the Government and having found in the Commission, in the Council and in the whole of the Member States the recognition of the migration policy that the Spanish Government has traditionally had, whether it is a People's Party Government or a Government of the Socialist Party, with which the migration policy, Mr Rivera, is the one that the Administration has been practicing in this country for a long time, which is an example in many issues - in many issues - for all European countries, among other things because there is no Europhobia here in Spain, or at least it is a minority, and in other countries there is, and that also has a lot to do with the management of migration flows responsibly, although there are obviously issues that separate us from the People's Parliamentary Group and we want to review. I am certainly not alien, Mr Iglesias, to the mandate of this Parliament to review the conditions of the CIEs, I am not alien. And of course, the Government's commitment will be to review the conditions of the CIEs and ensure that human rights are respected in them. But also understand that as President of the Government I have to send a message to control migration flows and, consequently, the CIEs cannot close them, and that is the position on this government matter. We can debate a lot about the euro area, but the Foreign Minister reminded me earlier of something that is very important, which is something that I have brought both Chancellor Merkel and President Macron to the meetings I had with them, and it is: are we in favour of a Community budget? Yeah. Are we in favour of greater integration at the level of the euro area, both of the fiscal union and of the banking union? Also. But what worries me the most, Mr. Churches? And I think we will agree on this, the certain intergovernmental tufilo of many of these responses and of this integration process. I believe that what we have to do is to strengthen the federal mechanisms and therefore accountability and that it is the European Parliament that does so seems to me to be the line and that is where the socialist government is going to be, do not have the slightest doubt. With regard to Mr Hernando, I would simply like to remind you, because the Minister of Labour told me, the Sectoral Conference on Immigration has not met since 2015. [[Rumors]] That is the importance you have attached to cooperation, collaboration and dialogue between administrations in relation to an issue as important to our country as the phenomenon of migration. As for the dialogue operation, I only say to you, Mr Hernando, that we do not blame at all what you tried to do, on the contrary, we applaud it, and what I hope is simply the same support that we gave to you when you were in the government to have it now us in the government and you in the opposition. If you are the interlocutor of the People's Party, delighted to talk to you, there are many things on the table. And with regard to your eternal question, as we are now going to have the opportunity to talk about it again in the control session, I welcome the right to answer it in the control session. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u73	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions, first of all, to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Rafael Antonio Hernando Fraile, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u74	Thank you, Madam President. I hope that you will not now accept the same right you have been holding on to for a month now and you will tell us why you continue to refuse to tell the Spaniards the pacts you have reached with other political forces to be president. I thank Mr Borrell for returning to the debate, for finally waking up from his long nap. [[Laughter]] I am sorry that I did not cooperate to keep you more alive, but after listening to Mr Sánchez it is normal that many people, not only you, have lost the thread of the debate. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u75	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u76	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the tone of the debate, it is a European debate; some have tried to transform it into a national policy debate/opposition strategy, but that is their legitimate right, Mr Hernando. What I am telling you is that again it is the same question that you asked me last week, which is why what you are demonstrating, Mr Hernando, as well as the People's Parliamentary Group, is the same lack of ideas that you have had in the government since the opposition. I would like to reaffirm to you that the Socialist Government's commitment is to democratic regeneration, social cohesion, territorial cohesion, policies, Mr Hernando, which you as a citizen may benefit from. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u77	Mr. Hernando, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u78	Thank you, Madam President. The ideas of the previous government are those that allowed 2,700,000 Spaniards you had left on the unemployment lists to find an opportunity. It is the ideas of the previous Government that have allowed this country to be brought out of the ruin in which you have left it, and what my group will not be willing to do is to accept that you will again lead it on the same path as your policies, those ideas of you, always lead it, which are the policies of unemployment and economic ruin. The problem you have is that you are committed to the dialogue you have had with all those who have supported you so that you can be president. Because, let's see, how are you going to explain this weekend to the European leaders that you are going there thanks to those whom we have had to fight throughout Europe and who were only defaming and damaging the image of Spain and all the Spaniards with their separatist and rupturist proposals? You are willing to do anything and you are a person in an enormously weak government. Therefore, if we have to say that Catalonia is a nation, it is said; if we have to swallow the insults to the Spaniards by Mr Torra, then they are swallowed; if we have to move prisoners and humiliate the victims of ETA, then it is done, and if we have to accept the Spanish-speaking embassies in Europe again, then they are accepted. You the problem you have is that it comes from a motion of censure that has been a fraud; you the problem you have is that you are going to get infected with that stigma that you are going to pursue over all the time that you intend to screw into that chair. Look, assaulting Spanish Radio Television is not the best news we've had in recent times, but, of course, there's another worse one, and it's that you refuse to tell us your commitments to all those who have supported you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Do not look outside your party, Mr Hernando, for the reasons why you are in the situation you are in. I've told you before, look in the mirror, assume your mistakes and make self-criticism; look forward, Mr. Hernando. [[Rumors]] If you are talking about inequality or precariousness, we must remember that you, with your economic and labour policies, have placed Spain at the head of precarious work, of poor workers and also of inequality. You will be able to laugh at that, Mr Hernando, but there are many Spaniards who are suffering the consequences of their economic and labour policies and which we are going to reverse; to the extent of our possibilities we are going to reverse them throughout this legislature. You have no position on Catalonia, Mr Hernando, and I have told you before. You have a candidate who defends constitutional reform, another candidate who defends the dialogue operation, another candidate who defends the implementation of article 155 of the Constitution before what his Government did. In short, you are overcome by your own failure in territorial discourse and strategy for Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Therefore, Mr Hernando, all I ask is the same generosity that this parliamentary group showed when you were in the government, the same loyalty to the state that we showed when you were in the government. I insist, lead the opposition and not lead the chasm. Take back the compass and from there, Mr Hernando, I am convinced that we can do a lot for our country. Mr Hernando, with regard to Spanish Radio-television, this government is not going to separate even a millimeter from the mandate emanating from that motion of censure: democratic regeneration. We could not remain looking elsewhere seeing how you continued to manipulate the public information service while the workers on the information committees denounced precisely the deterioration of Spanish Radio Television. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u81	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u82	With this, it is an exercise of responsibility and commitment to democratic regeneration. [[Applauds]] - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT TAXES ARE YOU GOING TO SUBMIT YOUR GOVERNMENT TO PAY THE INCREASE OF THE GAST THAT'S GOING TO BE? [[File number 180/00685]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u83	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u84	Thank you, President. Mr President, I was going to ask you precisely for one of the announcements we have seen in the press, because you have not come to explain your plan of government and the opposition in this Parliament has to be informed by the press, by probe balloons and by denials of what you are proposing. I was going to ask you about the increase in recruitment costs. You have announced an increase to hire workers in Spain. That, of course, is a burden on job creation, but as we learn about things every time you make a meeting of those secrets or bilaterals, I'm going to ask you about Social Security, but about the whole Social Security box. Mr Sánchez, you and the Basque Nationalist Party announced after the meeting with Mr Urkullu that they wanted to raise for the first time in democracy in Spain the breakdown of the Social Security box, the breakdown of pensions, of effort, of work and, ultimately, of what is everyone's. Yes, you would not laugh, Mr Sánchez, that there are people paying contributions today to retire and have the same rights here, in Madrid, in Barcelona or in the Basque Country. I will ask you for that, Mr Sánchez: are you prepared to do what no president of democracy has done, which is to break the Social Security box? Neither Mr. Benegas in his day nor Don Nicolás Redondo of his party - and they did well - ever allowed it, even by giving up governing the Basque Country. And, of course, no president, not even presidents of his party have done so. I ask you today and answer us here because it is not your business and Mr Urkullu's, it is of all the Spaniards: the common pension fund. Mr Sánchez, are you prepared to give in to the nationalists in this case and break with the management and quotas of Social Security with the Basque Nationalist Party? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u85	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u86	Mr Rivera, following your logic and your dialectics - we always call old parties, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party - when the old right is renewed, where are you going to stay, Mr Rivera? You're mimicking the People's Party speech, you're lying like they lie when we talk about social security. [[rumors.-Applause]] Mr Rivera, what this government is going to do about social security is to solve the public income deficit and guarantee decent pensions, not as the government you have supported over the past two years has done. The question that had been asked, Mr Rivera, was: What taxes will your Government raise to pay the increase in the expenditure it will incur? Then he came out through the firecrackers and told us what he wanted. Mr. Rivera, by answering your question, I say to you: What problem do you have in recovering the universalization of public health? What problem do you have in ensuring that social security is sustained? We have a fiscal policy that is going to be progressive, what we are not going to do is what you promised in your election program during the election campaign: to lower VAT to luxury goods while raising VAT superreduced to essential goods. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u87	Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u88	Mr. Sanchez, you're no longer in Ferraz. Although he does not believe it, he is in the Government and has arrived at Bildu's hand. Answer the opposition's questions and, if you don't have an answer, maybe we already know it. This is the government agreement between the PSE and the nationalist party, which says in one of its points: to have the management of the economic system of social security; management, control of contributions, collection of quotas and other funding resources of the social security system. Yes or no? Are you going to be the first president of Spanish democracy to break the pension fund? Yes or no, Mr. Sanchez? Answer me, yes or no? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u89	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u90	Mr. Rivera, no. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr Rivera, I will comply with the Constitution and the Statute of Gernika. You who defend the Constitution so much, read it. Read the Statute of Gernika and you will know exactly what competencies can be transferred and what are not. What I do say is that, unlike you and the Government that supported you, this Government is going to guarantee the dignity and sustainability of the public pension system. [[Applauds]] We are going to fight against job insecurity, which is quite the opposite of the single contract that you propose, which is, by the way, to applaud the agreement of the social partners, which also implies an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, something you have traditionally opposed, Mr Rivera. And when we talk about inequality, we are going to do a joint reflection in this House, Mr Rivera. You are opposed to creating finalist taxes to supplement social security contributions, you are opposed to increasing social security contributions, you are opposed to resorting to credit to pay the extra pensions, as we are also opposed. You give everything to a job contract and a precarious work model, which is the one that you defend together with the People's Parliamentary Group. In short, Mr. Rivera, what you want is pensions... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. - QUESTION OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO TO RESTOR CIVIL RIGHTS IN THE SPANISH STATE? [[File number 180/00670]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u92	He also asked the President, Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the tranquility of Mr Hernando and Mr Rivera, calm, the reds are not yet coming. Mr President, what does the government intend to do to restore civil rights, which have been dynamized by the People's Party government in recent years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. In the debate on the motion of censure I said so and I reaffirm myself here. This Government intends to amend the law on the gag, to eliminate all extremes that restrict the freedom of expression and the freedoms contained in that law adopted by the People's Parliamentary Group as far as it had an absolute majority. In this regard, what this Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are expecting is the majority support of the House so that the law will be passed sooner rather than later, rather than a reality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u97	Mr. Sanchez, the truth is, you've had to do this and talk to me about talent. [[with the index finger of the left hand makes the eyebrow gesture]] You know that with 180 Members you can change a lot of things in this country and you know perfectly well that with us you will find yourself trying to dignify the lives of anyone, living where he lives. Now, and it's a warning, if you think that with good words, with pats on the back in the hallways, with calls, with dinners, with meals, with promises of office in which institutions, we, this parliamentary group, are going to bond and we are going to forget about the nine kidnapped in Extremera, Alcalá Meco and Soto del Real, I recommend that you change advisors. [[rumors]] What's more, if you, Mr. Sánchez, believe that doing good cop, bad cop, in short, listening to you in the morning that just like the 'indepes' we're not so bad but at night listening to your hooligans Batet and Borrell talking about civil confrontation believes that we're going to bond and we're going to forget about the nine kidnapped in Alcalá Meco, Soto del Real and Estremera, I recommend you change your advisors. [[The Rumors Continue]] In fact, I recommend and suggest that you stop talking to the PSC, that you steal the mayor's office from Dolors Sabater in Badalona and that you selfies with Albiol in demonstrations of Catalan Civil Society, and that you talk a little more with us. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u98	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, we're not so naive, we're not so naive. We have known each other for a long time, we have debated and therefore we are perfectly aware of the importance your party has in Catalonia, of which it also has here and, of course, what things you defend and which things we defend. We've known each other for a long time, even before you and I were in these seats. The Socialist Workers' Party of Spain and the Republican Left have known each other for a long time, we know what we represent and what we defend each of us. But it is clear - and it is to that experience that I want to appeal - that there have been times when we have understood each other and I think it has been good for Catalonia and for the whole of Spain. With regard to the terms and forms of this debate, all I ask of you, Mr Rufián, is that you do not disqualify members of this government. You will be able to criticize your positions, but disqualify them I think it does not enter into good parliamentary use, so I ask you to withdraw that expression. [[Applauds]] What I can tell you and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián, is that things have changed, that you do not have a government in front of you that is going to use territorial aggravation to scratch any vote in the country as a whole, and that we therefore extend our hand to this open, sincere and direct dialogue that is needed between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat, to which you are a party. I hope, as of 9 July, that we will be able to take a path that will restore many of the wounds that, as a result of the lack of judgement and strategy of the previous Government, have caused the social fracture that exists right now in Catalonia. [[Protests]] For us, Mr. Rufián, it won't be. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent and to remind you that the Presidency is listening to your ladies and gentlemen and that if I have to call anyone to order it will be because the limit has already been exceeded. So, please, I beg you, because here we must maintain the forms and above all in what is expressed, maintain the decorum of the House and the respect of your ladies and gentlemen with each other. I remember all your ladies because I think enough has happened this morning. - OF THE DEPUTY DON RAFAEL MERINO LÓPEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE GENERAL TAXATION OF THE STATE TO BE PAID BY THE FRIEND OF THE MANIFESTING FRIENDSHIP THAT KEEPS WITH YOU? [[File number 180/00682]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u101	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mr Rafael Merino López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u102	Minister, you have to be and look like it. That is why I ask you: Is the independence of the Attorney General's Office guaranteed despite the manifest friendship you have with the candidate?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u103	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Merino, in your question there is a value judgment that disqualifies you. The autonomy of the new State Attorney General is fully guaranteed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u105	Mr. Merino, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u106	Minister, a reminder of a background because it can serve as a good reflection. There was a fellow party member of his party who was Minister of Justice who had to leave and resign from the ministry for being in a hunt with certain friendships. I think you know something about that too. But, calmly, Mr Ábalos, today we are not going to talk about the Valencian Parliament. Who has seen them and who sees them! The same thing in a few days' time goes up to the rostrum to present a self-censorship for reasons of corruption. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, it seems a lie that with the large number of professionals that exist in order to be a public prosecutor, you - as you have acknowledged in the media - propose to a person who is your friend. With this, Minister, what I want to do is to bring you to the stage of reflection, because you put the Office of the Attorney General of the State in the eye of the hurricane. Are you not aware that because of this friendship you have with the Attorney General of the State any decision or action that will be made and carried out by the Attorney General will be waiting to know whether it is by independence of the Prosecutor's Office or by friendship with you, Minister, or because it is the belt of transmission of the policies of Mr Sánchez's socialist government? You as a minister and the Attorney General's Office since your independence, which I hope you have, have very important challenges. As a minister, he will have to make decisions with the independent coupsmen, with that government that remains committed to achieving independence and breaking Spain, and the state prosecutor's office will have to act as well. I wonder and think: Is that prosecutor's office going to change the criterion now, as a friend of yours, or is it going to maintain the criterion that it has maintained so far in defense of the unity of Spain? Those are the questions to be answered. Another thing, Minister, although it is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, if you approach the prisoners of ETA, the murderers of ETA, the Basque prisons, you are moving away from the victims, but the People's Party will always be close to the victims and away from the murderers of ETA. [[A Member: Very well, Rafa!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u107	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Merino, last Wednesday I answered Mrs Moro on identical issues, exactly the same thing, and I am not going to get into your game. No one here is going to cast doubt on the performance, independence and qualification of the Attorney General's Office. It is creating a shadow of doubt, it is planting the seed of doubt, which this minister is certainly not going to pay. It's an alibi to question the actions of the State Attorney's Office, and we're not going to get into that. You can't, through questions like this, stain the prosecutors' work. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u109	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u110	The work of this minister and the work of this government is to provide tools for judges and prosecutors to work, as they have done, independently and autonomously. And the work of this minister, Mr Merino, is to prevent us from being pulled out of our ears again, to remove our colors because of the lack of transparency of the previous government with the Attorney General's Office. [[Rumors]] We are going to avoid that partisan and political use of the prosecution, that is what this government is going to do, Mr Merino. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u111	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MASKS MASCAREÑO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT KEEP HIS WILL TO REFORM THE CRIMINAL CODE IN RELATION TO THE REBELLION CRIME? [[File number 180/00683]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u112	She also asked the Minister of the Member of Parliament, Mr Pablo Matos Mascareño, of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is the government that questions the work of prosecutors when it announces that they are going to be involved in the criminal proceedings under way. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] On 16 May, the President of the Government announced an amendment to the Criminal Code to update the crime of rebellion. Literally, today's President of the Government said: we are going to update this crime to facts that were unimaginable years ago. It is clear that the offence of rebellion, as it was established in 1995, does not correspond to the type of rebellion that has occurred in recent months. We must defend the legal good, which is the Constitution, against public officials who are using their position at the head of political institutions to violate, to subvert the constitutional order. He also called the independence of Puigdemont and Torra a xenophobic and supremacist. Later, just two weeks later, Mr. Sánchez became President of the Government with the support of those two weeks previously described as perpetrators of crimes of rebellion, xenophobics and supremacists, and literally told them that he was reaching out to them. That is why we wonder whether it maintains the will to reform the Penal Code with regard to the crime of rebellion and on what terms, whether in those raised by Mr Sánchez or others, and on what dates. And after hearing Mr Rufián's speech, I have to ask him if he shares the complicity with which the President of the Government has received the charge of kidnapping by the Spanish courts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u114	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Matos, what the government is doing is betting on defending the Constitution and updating the defence mechanisms of our Magna Charter. That is why the Government of Spain is betting. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Matos, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u117	Madam Minister, I am sorry, but the response of a party that has ruled Spain, the response that you have given by not responding, gives me enormous sadness. You have already heard the Republican Left today saying that the price you are already paying seems very little to you, that you want so much more. These days we have seen the media highlighting the good role of Mr Sánchez with Torra, which seems obscene to me; the announcement to recover the articles of the Statute declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court; the request for freedom of the independenceists imprisoned for rebellion announced by Mr Iceta; and even the change of prison policy with regard to ETA terrorists. I ask you a question that you can no longer answer: Is it really worth getting the presidency of the government...? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u118	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Matos, let's talk about the crime of rebellion, which originated there in a 1900 law; then it was introduced into the Penal Code in 1928, appearing as treason; and then already as rebellion in the Code of 1932. It is a crime that has been sustained by military uprisings, military coup and an element that is violence, which is part of the criminal structure. Subsequently, the crime of rebellion continued in the 1944, 1973 and 1995 reforms. New situations and even new actors may appear in relation to this crime, and what was proposed in its day by the then leader of the opposition and now President of the Government was to face these new situations from a calm, calm debate, counting on the maximum of consensus to defend something in which I believe we must all agree, which is our Constitution, which marks precisely that space of coexistence. That's what this is about. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u120	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL ANA MARIA MADRAZO DÍAZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PRESENT TO SUBMIT TAXES TO THE SPANISH? [[File number 180/00677]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u121	Questions now addressed to the Minister of Finance. First of all, question by Mrs Ana María Madrazo Díaz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, your arrival in the government is causing great concern in Spanish families and companies because they have only announced an increase in spending and a rise in taxes. The waste of public money seems to be in the DNA of the socialist government every time it arrives in Moncloa, but the Spaniards know very well who will end up paying the taxes of that waste of public money: the middle and working classes. When you finish peeling the champagne for the arrival in the government we're going to have to pay that tax hike among all of you. Because instead of winning the election to rule, you seem to be ruling to win the next election. That's why I'm asking you: Does the government plan to raise taxes to the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u123	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u124	Thank you very much, President. Madam Madrazo, I believe that the most important concern that the Spaniards have had in the last period has been precisely the cases of corruption that have been led by your party... [[Protests.-Mr. Hernando Fraile: The ERE.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u125	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u126	... and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the convictions there have been in this matter. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u127	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u128	This government has arrived legitimately, democratically...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u129	Silence, ladies and gentlemen! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u130	...with the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, of which you must not only choose those articles that you like. You ask me a question about a matter in which the Government, and therefore the political force that sustains it, is going to take the taxation out of electoral and party interests. We, ladies and gentlemen, are going to be in line with the new taxation that is being proposed from Europe and, fundamentally, by responding to a tax of the 21st century on technology, the environment or those activities which, today, taxation does not or does not collect the tax on these services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u131	Mrs. Madrazo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u132	Thank you. Madam Minister, it seems a lie that a member of the Andalusian Government is talking to us about corruption. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!-A honourable Member: What a shame!]] It seems a lie, because you are not new to the head of the Public Finance; you, as an advisor to the Andalusian Government, have taxed the Andalusians. [[A Member: Yes, yes]] You have created seven own taxes; you have the highest types of IRPF, property tax and property transfer tax, and the worst thing, Minister, is that politicians are here to improve the lives of citizens and you have done the opposite. His legacy is that Andalusia is at the top of unemployment rates; his legacy is that Andalusia has the lowest per capita health expenditure in Spain and his legacy is that they have the poverty rate 43% above the Spanish average. Therefore, you cannot teach us lessons. That's right, you have been teachers in creating chiringuitos; chiringuitos with the money of all Andalusians; you have created the largest customer network in the history of Spain, with three hundred public entities, and you have in your existence a scandal like that of the ERE, for which many of your government colleagues are sitting on the bench. [[a lady MP: All right!]] Our tax model is completely opposite to yours. We want to keep lowering taxes. In the People's Party you will find loyalty to work, to build Spain, not to destroy it by pacting with independenceists and populists. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u133	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Madrazo, the first thing I would ask of you, I would ask you, is that you speak of Andalusia with the merit that this land has to have on the part of each of the Members of this House. [[Applauds]] They respect Andalusia, respect the work of that land and respect the legitimate governments that exist in each autonomous community. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u135	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u136	I have listened to you, I think with enough respect, despite the insults, the reproaches and the disqualifications that you... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u137	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u138	... has had in his intervention not only towards me but towards the legitimate government of Andalusia and also towards all Andalusians. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, for not letting go of the question that brings us here, are you going to talk about tax increases? Since the People's Party came to the Government of Spain, it has raised taxes more than forty times, Your Honor. The IRPF rose 7 points; the VAT reduced from 8 % to 10 %. In total, they carried out more than fifty tax increases. You have no authority to speak on this matter. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I beg you all to remain silent. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF THE BLACK TARNO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: DOES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS IN THE RETRIBUTIVE RIGHTS OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES IMPOSED AT THE TIME OF THE COUNCIL OF THE ANDALUCIA BOARD TO THE RESPONSE OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00678]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u140	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance, Mr Ricardo Tarno Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, see if the Andalusians respect us and know us that in this legislature the most voted party in Andalusia was the People's Party. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Do you think, Minister, to cut back on how you cut the Andalusian civil servants' salaries now in your new occupation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u142	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Tarno, we have known each other for a long time and I will tell you that the problem with the Spanish People's Party is that we have never heard the Andalusian People's Party defend the interests of Andalusia. [[Applauds]] That is the problem of the Spanish People's Party, a contempt for the south and the Andalusians in particular. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u144	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u145	If there is a Government that has actually attacked public employees, it has been the Government of the People's Party. You, with the excuse and alibi of the crisis, weakened the welfare state, among other things, by cutting off very important rights to all employees. They abolished the overtime payments, reduced the days of free will, imposed a thirty-seven-and-a-half-hour day - you know perfectly well that when an autonomous community tried to recover the day they have taken it to the Constitutional Court - and maintained a replacement rate that has not allowed the replacement of public employees. [[rumors]] I believe that the recipe that the People's Party has had for public employees has been contempt, cuts and the elimination of many jobs that sustain the welfare state. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u146	Mr. Tarno, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u147	Minister, Andalusian officials lost 5% in 2010, the overtime pay for Christmas and summer 2012, summer and Christmas 2013 and summer and Christmas 2014, six extra pay; no other official in Spain lost six pay. It took more than six years to return the 2012 extra payment, the last payment in February 2018. They have not returned those of 2013 and 2014. 30 % of purchasing power has been lost. Do you know why? Because they had to maintain a parallel structure, as my partner explained, and because they had to return what they stole with the EREs. [[Applauds]] Right now there are two presidents of the Andalusian Junta on a bench for stealing 700 million euros from Andalusians. [[Several Members: Very well!]] That's what happened, Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u148	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u149	The newspaper El País says: Andalusia paid an additional 2.1 million to 100 health managers while reducing the number of health workers in 7733. [[shows a holder]] [[Applauds]] You're worse than Eduardo Manostijeras, a cream cutter. [[Rumors]] I ask you for a favor, respect Mr Montoro's agreement with public officials, which is a guarantee of the future; keep the salary increase to the State Security Forces and Corpses; respect what we have worked for, because if it is not going to come what always comes with you: deficit, unemployment and cuts. Madam Minister, I am just as Andalusian as you are, no more or less, and I value myself for having defended my land here and in the Parliament of Andalusia. I don't give an Andalusian card to anyone, that gives birth. I'm just asking you one thing, respect how we respect each other. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u150	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u151	Thank you very much, President. I ask you, Mr Tarno, to withdraw your words when you said that two autonomous presidents have stolen 700 million of the public arks. [[Rumors.-Mr. Tarno Blanco makes negative gestures]] Don't you take them off? It will be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u152	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u153	I would beg you to do so. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u154	Silence, ladies and gentlemen! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u155	If you want to continue along that path, defaming and insulting permanently when you speak of Andalusia, without even respecting the turn of the word, do so; so it has gone and so I hope it will continue to go. Mr. Tarno, you were mayor of Mairena del Aljarafe, weren't you? When you were mayor of Mairena del Aljarafe approved a cut in the payroll of public employees of 2.5 million euros. You did, I imagine, because the Ministry of Finance forced you to adhere to the supplier plan. [[Mr Tarno Blanco speaks words that are not perceived]] No, no, if I don't want you to answer me from the seat; I am the one who has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u156	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u157	Obviously, Mr Tarno, in this country we have suffered a very important crisis and the difference is that where the Socialist Party has ruled, jobs have not been lost and the crisis has not been used to dismantle... [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u158	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED TERESA PALMER TOUS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND ENTERPRISES: WHY DON'T THE GOVERNMENT APPROVE THE GAST TIP FOR 2019? [[File number 180/00680]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u159	Question by Mrs Teresa Palmer Tous, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u160	Thank you, President. Minister, Article 15 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability states that the Government must adopt through the Council of Ministers both budgetary and debt targets for all public administrations by 30 June. That's why we ask you: Why doesn't your government approve the spending ceiling for 2019? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u162	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the Government is working intensively on all the previous tasks for the preparation of the budget and, therefore, for the determination of the expenditure ceiling. You know that different bodies have to be convened, mainly the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission for Local Administration. We're going step by step, I think we're doing things right and we'll respect the procedures that the law sets out. At the moment when we have the whole path of stability together with the spending ceiling, as is strictly necessary, we come to this Parliament for you to know. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u163	Mrs. Palmer, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u164	Madam Minister, the truth is, the reality is that you have it very easy; you have it very easy because in this, as in other things, the People's Party government has already left you the work done. As far as I know, so far they have not had the least modestness, they have not blushed anything when they have appropriated and taken advantage of that work. We are all thinking now of the defence that you, in particular, have made of the budgets of the People's Party; those budgets that you called low cost to despise them. I am convinced that his change of attitude and defence of the PP's budgets will pass into the history of Spanish parliamentarianism, but not precisely because of its brilliance. Minister, you have it as easy as going to the 2018 National Reform Programme that we sent to the European Union just a month ago. Here are the commitments Spain made with its European partners on its path of budgetary stability and so they were received. In this European context I would recommend, if you have not yet done so, that you speak with the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who is of your political affinity, and confirm that you remain committed to budgetary stability because, believe me, hearing the promises and announcements that many of the cabinet members are making, you are likely to be very, very concerned. I, personally, would be. In short, I'll tell you what I think you haven't said here, what you haven't told. You cannot now approve the spending ceiling because your Government is a prisoner of the groups that supported you in the motion of censure: populists, nationalists, independenceists and terrorists. Your Government is hostage to fellow travellers who do not believe in Europe or believe in budgetary stability and who will of course not accept in any way a ceiling of expenditure in which they do not keep all the promises that Mr Sánchez made to reach that government which he has now and which he has achieved at any price. In short, minister, you do not approve of the spending ceiling because you are captive to those supports and that is the truth that everyone should know. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u165	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u166	Thank you very much, President. I believe, Your Honor, that you only have to let them talk to know what the attitude of the People's Party is going to be during the duration of this government; and I hope that they will regenerate, I hope that they will, because of course you have not learned anything and you continue to practice a policy - in the government and now in the opposition - that is only seeking party interest, something to which the citizens are turning their backs. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u167	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u168	I think it is very important that we come back from the government to redouble our commitments to Brussels with regard to the fulfilment of the stability path. Do you know how many times the Spanish Government has met the deficit targets in recent years, the central administration? None! It has never been fulfilled by the Kingdom of Spain; if it has been fulfilled it has been thanks to autonomous communities and municipalities, not to the task that the People's Party has done. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, I would just like to say that you are already beginning to count on bringing the spending ceiling to this House when the period that the law foresees for it to be provided has not even passed, which you certainly never found in the Socialist Party when you were in the opposition. But do you know how many times the Government of Spain has failed to comply during the last three years to bring in time and form the spending ceiling? Do you know how many in the last three years? Three times! [[Rumors]] The ceiling for expenditure in the area established by law was not brought in. Now you're going to give lessons in fulfillment and bring here the spending ceiling? Well, we're not gonna get it, Your Honor. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ALICIA RAMOS JORDÁN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO REFORM LOCAL FINANCING IN THIS LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/00674]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u169	Question by Ms. Alicia Ramos Jordan, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u170	Thank you, President. Minister, does the government intend to address the reform of local funding in this legislature? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u172	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think you know very well that the reform of local finance has been a long-requested demand by the municipalities, I would say that almost all the political forces, and that Mr Rajoy's government has been losing out throughout this period, both in terms of autonomous financing and in terms of local financing. We will certainly continue to make progress so that those administrations that are closest to the citizens can count on the resources that are necessary for the performance of this task. We also believe that it is necessary to give these administrations some powers that the reform of local authorities took away from them in the previous period, and we will therefore be working simultaneously on this revision of local funding, mainly on the basis of the problem raised by capital gains, and we will do so in line, I hope, with the political forces of this Parliament, so we will shortly convene the National Commission of Local Administration to hear the assessment firsthand. To the extent that we can, we will continue to improve territorial administrations so that they can provide quality services that are closest to citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramos, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u174	Thank you, President. We are very pleased to hear this answer. We would like to recall that cities are spearheading mobility and sustainable urbanism, public services and the defence of human rights. The municipalities, especially those of change, at the limit of their competences and with scarce resources, are managing and solving the needs of their neighbours. In view of this situation, we believe, as you also indicated, that it is very urgent to reform local funding which increases income and gives more competence to the municipalities, because it is the closest and closest public administrations and therefore those that can apply more directly policies of good living putting the needs of the people in the center. During this legislature, which was going to be a lost legislature, both the People's Party and Citizens did everything possible to stifle these administrations, and it is no coincidence neither this nor their centralizing desire, since thus, limiting municipal competences, put a stop to social transformations and cut back on education, public health and social services, often on the basis of decree, because it is necessary to be cynical, Mr Hernando, to accuse others of governing on the basis of decree. We believe that after throwing Rajoy and his Government out, it is time to address these issues on which my parliamentary group has been working since we arrived at Congress. We hope to have your support so that we can carry out these initiatives, because guaranteeing the autonomy and financial self-sufficiency of the municipalities is the framework of opportunity that you have right now to move from the policies of symbolic gestures to concrete policies, because it is from municipalism from where social policies are consolidated, anti-racist, and the fight against macho violence. In addition, the State Pact is conferring powers on local governments and the necessary resources have not been allocated. It is from the municipalities that active struggles can be promoted against these violences and against poverty; it is through local policies that positive messages of sexual diversity, gender, solidarity and the environment can be enhanced, from where we can build new discourses and representations that produce real and functional transformations. We know that your Government is ready to work with us; it has demonstrated this with the support it has given us in some initiatives... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u176	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Your Honor, there are many issues on which we have to work, and some of them require urgency. I would say that the priority is to change and improve the calculation of the expenditure rule, which is a very important issue for the local authorities as a whole, and another very peremptory line of work is that which is related to financially sustainable investments, as has been raised by the people we have spoken to from the Council of Ministers. These are issues that will have to be put in place for 2018, and I hope, Your Honor, that we will find an appropriate consensus so that we can review a funding that actually has to be accompanied by a better match of competences, so that those who know the needs of the citizens most can provide them in time and in form, trying to give a personalized response to each neighbour or neighbour of this country. They count on our complicity. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Melisa Rodrigez Hernandez, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT RENEWING TO TAKE A REFORM OF AUTONOMIC FINANCING? [[File number 180/00684]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u177	She also asked the Minister of Finance, Mrs Melisa Rodríguez Hernández, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u178	Madam Minister, just a month ago, curiously just before the motion of censure, both you from the Andalusian Junta and the Socialist Party, advocated the need for a reform of the autonomous financing system. Two weeks later, we heard the President of the Government resign from this reform, both in the Senate and here in Congress. I ask why they give up reforming the autonomous financing system. Mr Sánchez claimed that it was a matter of time, but Mr Sánchez has already declared that he is going to be entangled in La Moncloa, with which they have two years to do so. Is it a matter of time, Minister, or is it a mess and your government partners do not allow you to undertake a reform that will equal rights and resources for all citizens of this country? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u179	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Under no circumstances, Your Honor, Mr Sánchez has said that the reform of autonomous financing will not be undertaken. [[Rumors]] Moreover, it is part of one of the priorities of our government program, and therefore what it has moved is a reality, because the style of this government is that we are not going to deceive the citizens. It has brought an objective reality of the complexity that there is in the time of the legislature to carry out a comprehensive reform of the autonomous financing system. That is exactly what I had proposed, with that sense of realism and above all of the transparency that we have to have with the citizens as a whole. However, your honor, the problem with this issue is that during the period governed by the People's Party, nothing has been done about autonomous financing, beyond convening an expert group, to which I thank you for the prolific work you have carried out, and a second expert group, which analysed the consequences of the first group, without any political approach on the part of the Government of Spain. We have to resume all these preparatory work and therefore, Your Honor, for the Ministry of Finance it will be a priority for all actors involved in autonomous financing to reach a broad consensus, and to lay the groundwork for a comprehensive reform of autonomous financing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u182	Minister, I refer to the Senate Sessions Journal of June 19 - Mr Sánchez's textual words -: Renewing the financing system as a whole will not give material time during this term. He then announced that he would break into Moncloa. He's two years old, he's not gonna give you time, really? Not only have they given up, but they are also betraying all the citizens of this country, of course it is less those of the Basque Country and perhaps those of Catalonia, because they have not yet told us what hidden pact they have had. We talked about gestures today. A good gesture would have been that the first meeting with an autonomic leader would have been held with all the autonomic leaders to talk about autonomic financing, and yet what he has done has been to meet with those with whom they have a pact behind and who do not explain; perhaps they do not want the rest of the autonomic presidents to listen to what they do not want to say, and they are the hidden pacts they have with the rest. You have also said - the President of the Government has also said - that they replace this reform of the autonomous financing system with these bilateral negotiations, that is, that we are going to renounce an autonomous financing system that guarantees the rights of all by meetings, one by one, to give crumbs and put ourselves in a box of retals to all those who are not of the Basque Country, because you are now defending a government that has voted yes to the coupon, yes to the differentiation between the citizens of this country, yes to the privileges of an autonomous community. You too, Minister, spoke of respect just before, and I ask you one thing: respect the citizens of Andalusia, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, the rest of the autonomous communities that have not had the privilege that the PSOE wants to negotiate for all, because they have only agreed with those who want to break this country and with those of the coupon. [[Applauds.-A Member of the House:]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u183	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u184	Thank you very much, President. I would like to reiterate to you once again, Sir, the commitment of the Socialist Party and this Government to the comprehensive reform of autonomous financing, but I have certainly not listened to you in the previous period to demand from the People's Party Government the priority of the reform of the autonomous financing system. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I didn't hear them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u185	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u186	By the way, Mrs Rodriguez, just among those who supported the budgets on which the Basque quota was validated and the quantification of it was their political formation. Therefore, stop raising... [[Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: No! No! No! No! No!]] [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u187	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u188	I have respected her at the speaking time, Your Honor; I have respected her. Stop causing clashes between territories, ladies and gentlemen. Stop making permanent mention of the nationalists and talk about inter-territorial confrontations. We are here to build a more just Spain, a more solidarity Spain and I would like to know the position of Citizens regarding autonomous financing... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u189	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Silence! - OF JAVIER MAROTO ARANZÁBAL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: Is that going to be your government's penitentiary policy? [[File number 180/00679]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u190	We continue with questions to the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mr Javier Maroto Aranzábal, from the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, last week I asked you the same question and you did not answer it; it is true that it was your first time and I will not take it into account, but I will not take it into account if you answer it on this occasion. The question is what the Government intends to do in relation to the prisoners of Catalonia and the prisoners of ETA. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u192	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Maroto. I'll see you again. The question is still not correctly recorded. Lives as headlines, and does well, continue to live as headlines, but does not use terrorism or the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] I will answer you and thank you for being able to answer the citizens, so that they can be calm, because in this government we will apply the principles of legality and transparency. Don't confuse one thing and another: it's not prison politics about Catalan prisoners, because they haven't been convicted. I have already referred to this point: when the investigation is completed, when there is no obstacle on the part of the investigating judge or to guarantee the defence, the transfer to Catalonia in these terms will be evaluated. With regard to the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA I say again: application of the regulations of the Prison Law, individualized treatment, and do not confuse approach with progression of degree or with permits. These are different issues and different requirements. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u194	Mr. Maroto, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u195	Minister, we haven't made much progress. I would ask you not to acquire the vices we have seen in some other ministers, you are something else. I am pleased to meet you, I have heard you in the Basque Country talk about this and know about your pedigree and your experience, I value you. That's why it hurts, I tell you heartily, it hurts me to have to ask about this and put a mirror in front of it. Today, speaking of headlines, there were things like this in the press, along with the president's hands there were headlines saying: prisoners will enjoy benefits without repudiating ETA. [[shows a tablet]] That is, without recognizing the damage of terrorist violence. I ask you heartily: what do you think the normal and ordinary people, the good people of Spain who vote for your party, which you represent today, mine or none? What do you think they think when they read this? Are you really calm in a government that writes these headlines and generates in public opinion, in people who have feelings of heart, who have lived as I am Basque! These things in the first person? What do you think? What do people think? Are you comfortable in a government that does this? There are other headlines today, Minister, there are some worse. The victims - they say today - cannot be the payment to the nationalists. Are you comfortable in a government the victims say this about? I couldn't do it anymore. And for the respect I have for you and the professional affection I have for you, I don't think you do either. If he is a member of that Government, he also has the opportunity to play an important role in ensuring that the Government is not mistaken, because Spain does not deserve a Government to be wrong in this. Normalization is not bringing prisoners closer or contenting the independenceists, it is something else; it is that the account of the history of the Basque Country in relation to ETA includes the words democracy and dignity, Minister. And I tell you one thing, and I finish: if the victims go out on the street to say they don't like the government's ETA measures, the People's Party will be there to accompany them. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u196	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Maroto. I don't live as headlines, I live as facts and I live as realities. I live in the concrete situation of the need to apply prison legislation in all cases. I will tell you what was done on some occasion or at demonstrations by the People's Group. Minister Fernández Díaz on 31 March 2015 said that with dissolution there would be no dispersion. In February of this year 2018 the Minister of the Interior - which was obviously not me - or at least from Prison Institutions was asked for information about different members of the terrorist organization ETA, those who had received prison treatment, those who were sick, etc., I don't know for what purpose, you will know better than I. This Government is going to apply the principle of legality with transparency, exposing victims to what are the requirements in each case: for approximation, for some permission, etc., but always in those terms, and I will tell you more. The victims will also have the satisfaction of this Government; they will have the satisfaction of truth: memory and justice. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MIGUEL BARRACHINA ROS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: DOES THE GOVERNMENT KEEP THE TIME LIMITS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF HIGH-VELOCITY INFRASTRUCTURES IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00681]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u198	This is a question now addressed to the Minister for Development. Question by Miguel Barrachina Ros, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u199	Thank you, Madam President. I wish you, Mr de Fomento, much success in this first question; your successes will of course be the successes of Spain. But don't settle down in Madrid, because you, Valencian like me, know that this morning you have arrested the socialist president of the Provincial Council of Valencia, your chief of staff and six more members of the Socialist and Compromise Party. Just yesterday President Puig made a ridiculous European in Brussels demanding an action on the axis Valencia-Zaragoza that, as you know, his ministry is running, and last week Mr Puig himself ran out of the slogan of: Madrid robs us on the basis of underfunding. Therefore I tell you not to settle in Madrid, it will not be that you will have to return to our beloved land Valencia to put out fires. In the meantime, I ask you to act as Minister for Development with the EUR 4300 million to invest in railways that we have given you, 26% more than last year, a budget to which you voted against, but which you will enjoy in its entirety from tomorrow. However, that momentum that we would like to see continued throughout the Spanish railway, the pride of the 500 million annual users that our railway network has, has been initiated with a phrase of its own that gives us much to think about. He said: We're going to audit the AVE deadlines, because some of them gave themselves up to look good. Your Members think otherwise, they think the deadlines were too long, and therefore, where are you going to apply the scissors to that cut that euphemistically called audit? To the Mediterranean Corridor? AVE with Galicia? To the Atlantic axis in your stretch of Salamanca towards Portugal? The North Corridor? To the Mediterranean Corridor? To Extremadura's hallway? Where we're going to direct €4.3 billion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u200	Mr. Minister of Development, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u201	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Barrachina, for giving me the opportunity to talk about this. I just want to tell you to have the confidence that it's going to be the way you want it to be, and it's being the way it is. It is our will that the change of government generally does not affect investment commitments or contracts. We don't plan to paralyze or delay anything. The advice is being made on schedule. This Monday there was a board of directors of ADIF and approved a whole series of projects, the same ones that had been planned before the change of government and where is contemplated the complete underground for the city of Murcia, for 329 million, 78 million for the high-speed connection of Galicia, 55 million for the cantabrian corridor, 53 million for the high-speed between Madrid and Asturias, and the bidding of travies and materials for the high-speed line of Extremadura, for 50 million. Next Friday, the next morning, the Council of Ministers will approve three more tranches for the amount of 190 million euros that have to do with the Mediterranean corridor, with the electrification of the line Pobla Llarga-Silla, in Valencia, and the renewal of the section Cabeza del Buey-Castuera, in Badajoz, and so it will be. Next July, it is also planned with ADIF to continue bidding on these high-speed investments. Now, as for the review of deadlines, the only thing we have said is that we are going to see the deadlines because, beyond being long or short, the important thing is not to generate false expectations, and in that sense we must also say that what is expected of the deadlines is the putting into service and not the end of the work, and sometimes we talk about the end of the work as if at the same time one got on the train. That's all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Barrachina, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u203	The last time a Socialist Development Minister spoke of revision more than a hundred public works were paralyzed in Spain, July 2010, the White Minister. We do not want the 3.5 billion euros of the cost of Pedro Sánchez's gestures to pay us the Spanish public work. That is why you said that you do not want to be the European Emergency Service. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u204	Mr. Minister of Development, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u205	Sir, Barrachina, do you know why I'm saying about the deadline audits? Because, speaking of credibility, the People's Party government announced in 2015 that it would put in service a thousand new kilometers of high speed between the sections that reach Burgos, Murcia, Granada, between Plasencia and Badajoz, and the variant of Pajares. [[shows a photo]] None of these sections are in service today; none. How will you understand with... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u206	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHEN DOES THE MINISTER FORCE COMING INTO THE 75th SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION FOR CANARY-PENINSULA TRAVEL OF CANARY RESIDENTS PREVIOUS? [[File number 180/00669]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u207	He also asked the Minister of the Deputy Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, when does the government expect the 75% discount for residents of the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands and Ceuta and Melilla to come into force on their journeys to the peninsula?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Development, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u210	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. It is very good that you have asked this question, because it allows us to clarify some question that is also very linked to the previous answer, and that is what we say and what it can be. The problem that we have encountered with regard to this issue, which we care about very much and which we support and defend, is that this 75 % bonus that should be covered by the approved budgets, is that, as it has been approved, it does not make it possible for them to be implemented immediately. I am very sorry to give you this bad news, but it is a consequence of these budgets that they happily say they have left us. The problem is that, as they have urged the Government, they have authorized the Government, all we have left is to pass a real decree. That is all we have left, and in order to do so we have to set deadlines: public hearing, reports from the other ministerial departments, report of the Council of State, approval by the Council of Ministers and even - which will be necessary in this case - the report of the autonomous communities concerned. All this has a duration, which in the least of the cases - I warn you, so that they do not have false expectations - will be of six months. We have already drafted the decree, but from there the deadlines are assessed, and we have no other. If they had done it like in 2017, they did it otherwise, it would now be effective, but it hasn't been so this time. I'm sorry, that's what we met. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u211	Mrs. Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u212	Lord Abalos, I have counted up to ten to answer him, especially by the tone. I know that you are not guilty - neither is this Member - of how this amendment was drafted in the budgets by the People's Group and the New Canary Islands. The amendment enabled the Government to do so. Well, on Friday there is a Council of Ministers and another next week, and the canaries, the thousands of students who are waiting to take their tickets, the grandparents who are going to meet their children and the parents who are going to leave, all pending this information, we demand that they give priority to a vital matter for the canaries, for the people of the Balearic Islands and for the people of Ceuta and Melilla. They have had the power to draw a decree from Spanish Television, but this is a right, not a subject of dogs, as we say in the Canary Islands. I wouldn't want to think that those 200 million and those bitches are thinking about toll freeways. It's a canary right, and put on the batteries, because you can't say it's a subject that's come to you. I recognize that the problem has been caused by others, but the solutions have to be provided by you. A Council of Ministers is to be held within 48 hours, which can adopt a decree stating exclusively that 75% will be in force as from 1 July. You and your service will see later whether it is a ministerial decree or a decree-law, and whether it is decree-law take it this week or next week with retroactive effect of July 1 for all these Spaniards, because it is a right. Don't you say: that was left to me by the previous ones and my priority is the toll freeways and investments of my district as a deputy. It is a right of the canaries, of the citizens, who wondered whether it would come into force the day after the publication in the Official Gazette of the State. Of course they can, with effect from 1 July. Council of Ministers agreement, ministerial order or decree-law. The canaries are more important than the Spanish Television decree, which of course we will support, but look how they did it in three minutes. Mr. Ábalos, you will have us to solve the problem, but not to escape or to give priority to other issues of your ministry. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Development, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u214	Mrs Oramas, this government is committed to implementing that bonus. I'm not gonna tell you it's gonna be next Friday, because I don't know if I'll be able to, but the next one will have the royal decree. However, since information has not been made clear to citizens, we do not abound in misinformation any more. The decree of Spanish Television has nothing to do with it. It's a decree-law and I'm talking about a royal decree. They are two different issues, with different handlings, of different affectation. There is nothing else here, because we are talking about subsidies and we are obliged to do that. Don't ask me to be effective by July 1 because you can't pretend to do a prevarication exercise any more. Let us finally respect the deadlines and the processes. We face a real decree because it's regulatory, not like the Spanish Television decree, which really... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u215	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DEROGATE THE REAL DECORD 14/2012 OF RESOURCES IN EDUCATION? [[File number 180/00672]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u216	Questions to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. First of all, question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u217	Thank you, President. Minister, welcome to this House. My first question for you is about Royal Decree 14/2012, a royal decree that blacked out the cuts in education. A royal decree that weighs like a slab on the public education of our country; the slab that weighs on the teachers of our country, who since it was passed have to give a lot more hours of class, between twenty and twenty-five hours of teaching, when the experts in pedagogy say that for every hour of teaching it takes at least one hour of preparation. A royal decree that weighs like a slab on students, who have spent seven years of massive classes seeing how teachers are not replaced until fifteen days after graduation, seeing how there are fewer and fewer teachers to attend to the different ways of learning. A royal decree that weighs like a slab also on the 70,000 students who have not been able to go to university for the increase of the fees and for the reduction of the scholarships, on those tens of thousands of boys and girls in our country who have to work and study at the same time in order to be able to pay for the studies. The People's Party has put an end to our country's public education, so it is now up to us to rescue it and we want to know, as the educational community wants to know, when the Royal Government will repeal Decree 14/2012. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u218	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Belarra, ladies and gentlemen, the previous People's Party government justified the promulgation of the royal decree-law to which you refer at the economic juncture at that time. In his view, it was then necessary to take exceptional measures with the aim of improving the efficiency of public administrations in terms of the use of public resources and achieving budgetary stability arising from the constitutional framework and the European Union. But since neither the exceptional nor the short-term can be prolonged indefinitely, the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, which I have the honour to address, considers it interesting that measures affecting non-university education should be reversed in the shortest possible time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u220	Mrs. Belarus, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u221	Thank you, President. Look, Minister, I thank you for your commitment, but I would ask you to make a clear commitment to a specific date to repeal this decree because the teachers who during all these years have carried on their backs a huge outburst, all those families and the children of the public have suffered enormously on their backs. That is why, since there are people who have been suffering for many years, it is time for us to have a government that is firmly, clearly and unequivocally committed to public education in our country. Because taking our sons and daughters to public school can't be an act of militancy, it has to be a reason for pride. And to be proud, we have to ensure that the public school is well funded; we have to give back to the public school what is yours because it is the only school that can guarantee equal opportunities. The Government of the People's Party has dismantled public education in our country and has not by chance done so, knowing very well what it was doing. They have left 22,500 teachers less in public school, they have closed public lines while still opening private-concerted lines and center, they have left a 26% interinity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u222	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Believe me, Mrs Belarus, I am particularly sensitive in relation to public education. Public education is the reference of the entire Spanish education system, it is the backbone of the whole system. Therefore, my respect goes ahead. I'm sensitive to the controversy you're pointing out. The direct impact of this royal decree on ratios, number of teachers and other measures has been a burden that the whole educational community in general and the teaching community have had to bear. I would like to acknowledge all your efforts here because, despite the hardening of your working conditions, you have continued to carry out your task with professionalism and commitment. It is also true that some of the measures of that royal decree began to be partially modified from 2016. In any case, this ministry is prepared to reverse those measures of the royal decree of non-university education that have provoked more controversy in the educational community because of the deterioration that they have caused for the quality of our education. I make it clear that these are mostly measures involving autonomous communities in some cases and universities in others, which advises us to start the dialogue as soon as possible so that we can make progress within a reasonable time. I do not give up, Your Honor, to achieve the most effective and efficient education. That is, without undermining the quality and guarantee of the right to education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u224	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: DOES YOU THINK TO CONTINUATE THE POLICIES OF THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO RECALL ANNUALLY THE CONVOCATION OF VASCO GOVERNMENT BECAUSES? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00686]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u225	He also asked the Minister for Education and Vocational Training of Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Since the 2014/2015 school year, the Government of the State has been resorting to scholarships for university and non-university studies promoted by the Education Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, and also irregularly in the sense that it has not resorted to all the calls. That, without a doubt, Minister, has created a panorama of insecurity, uncertainty and surprising litigation after almost thirty years of peaceful coexistence of two different systems of scholarships to study, so it is urgent and necessary to know whether the new Government intends to continue the policy of the Spanish Government to resort annually to the call for scholarships of the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u227	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Agirretxea, thank you for your question. I do not know whether in the past there has been any government policy aimed at or intended to resort annually to calls launched by the autonomous communities in the area of their competence, but I can assure you that the intention of the Government and the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training is to move forward with dialogue and respect in order to reach agreements. In this ministry all of you will find a permanent attitude of listening and negotiation in everything that means ensuring that all students in our educational system have full access to quality education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u230	Madam Minister, I am not too sure or too sure of your answer. You know that the scholarship and study aid system established by the Euskadi Education Administration is not only based on its own resources derived from its specific funding system, but is based on its own regulatory capacity, with a direct impact on one of the essential pillars of the scholarship and study aid system, with the endorsement of full respect for the competence in education recognised in Article 16 of the Gernika Autonomy Statute. University and non-university scholarships have been transferred to the Basque Country since the 1980s, implying that they are paid from the resources derived from the management of the economic concert - that is, Basque does not pay the State any amount for the competition that is fully assumed and from which the State does not provide service in our territory -; that is, material competition deriving from the aforementioned Article 16 of the Statute of Autonomy and with exclusive charge to the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Basque, as you are well aware, completely alien to the General Budgets of the State and to the regulation that derives from them. Therefore, the State cannot manage the scholarship and study aid system in the Basque Country because it does not have funds for it, given the unique external financing system, nor can it be maintained that in the Basque Country the scholarships are territorialized as long as the scholarship and study aid are considered to be a burden borne by the Basque Autonomous Community and, therefore, there is no allocation of State funds for this purpose in our Community, financed exclusively from its own resources...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u231	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u232	Mr Agirretxea, I know what you are commenting on, what you say, but, as you know, the ministry has an obligation to carefully analyse what is happening in our educational system, from progress towards achieving European objectives to the regulations developed by the autonomous communities. And if, as a result of that detailed review, it is observed that there are disagreements, we must put in place the means to find shared approaches. Scholarships, as you know, are one of the fundamental mechanisms to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens in access and stay in the system. They are therefore the object of special care to ensure that such equal opportunities reach all our fellow citizens in comparable conditions, particularly those with the most unfavourable socio-economic conditions, regardless of their residence. We must therefore strike an appropriate balance between the State guarantee of equal opportunities and the educational policies of the autonomous governments in each territory. We must have, Your Honor, a common reference for the whole State on the modalities and amounts of the scholarships, on the economic and academic conditions to be met by the candidates and on the cases of incompatibility, revocation and reinstatement, at least on these basic issues that are the hallmarks of the law. But we will be open to dialogue on any other requirements as long as they ensure equality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u233	Thank you very much. - OF THE GIRL YOLANDA Díaz Perez of the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European United States of America (CGE) can, in common, express to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security: What measures is the Government going to adopt to reverse the precariousness introduced by labour reforms? [[File number 180/00671]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u234	Questions to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. First of all, question by Mrs Yolanda Díaz Pérez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u235	Thank you, President. What steps will the Government take to reverse the precariousness introduced by labour reforms?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díaz, the Government of Spain has a firm commitment to regaining labour rights and improving the quality of employment of working people, rights that the labour reform of the People's Party has curtailed by establishing unprecedented precariousness in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz Pérez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u238	We want to greet first of all the domestic workers who are today in the rostrum, who are with us. Today, minister, they go out on the street to claim their rights. There are 620,000 women who have seen their rights cut with an amendment from the People's Party, which finally the Socialist Party also ratified in the Senate. Today we want to support these women, who are asking for fair measures. But look, minister, today Spain is already a niche of precariousness, there are millions of people who survive with low wages, who have no labour rights, who lack trade union rights, millions of people who live with the anguish of not knowing if they will be able to pay the rent or the receipt of light. And this in our country is not new, it has been so since 1984, with Felipe González; this has been maintained throughout bipartisanship. The rates of temporality in bipartisanship have always been above 35% and only the crisis has put us in the current 26.1%. Today, Minister, we are the champions in Europe of temporality, unemployment and job poverty. It's a sad ranking. Minister, half of the workers in this country are precarious. We would like to say what the faces of precariousness are. The face of insecurity is that of a woman who works in the cans hired day by day by an ETT; it is that of a public health nurse to whom they hire week by week; it is the face of a forest firefighter to whom they hire for seasons; it is that of a journalism professional, who is self-employed and freelance; it is the face of the one to whom two euros are paid for cleaning a room. Madam Minister, we say to you loud and clear that it is not enough to retouch labour reform, it is not enough, Madam Minister, it is much more. You know perfectly well that labor reforms have served two things: to cut jobs and above all to lower wages. He says there are no numbers, minister; he has them here, the vote on his proposal to repeal labour reforms. [[shows a graph]] What you have to do now is be brave and meet that Spain calling for change. Minister, if you want, you can repeal labor reforms. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u239	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díaz, I understand everything you have just said to me and I reiterate to you again that I am clear that the labour reform of the People's Party has been very damaging: 14 out of every 100 people working in this country are at risk of poverty, they are people who are working and whose incomes do not allow them to meet the most basic needs. You've listed a few collectives and I sympathize with that cause because I'm living it in my own family, I don't have to go any further. Temporality has not stopped growing in Spain, you are right, it has been an endemic evil in this country for several decades. We have to work to reduce temporality. The right of this country has caused the greatest destruction of indefinite employment, has chronicled temporality and precariousness in the labour market. [[Protests]] Our convictions are clear, we have to reverse this situation. In the face of precariousness, dignity; in the face of rights cuts, recovery of rights; in the face of authoritarian imposition, social and also political dialogue, and a hand extended to you and to the whole House to move forward and not to retreat. A pre-agreement, the Fourth Agreement on Employment and Collective Bargaining, was just signed - it was signed yesterday - between representatives of trade unions and employers to establish a minimum wage under an agreement of EUR 14 000 per year. It involved a pay raise. I think it will also help to recover social security contributions. We are clear that the negative effects of subcontracting, the prevalence of sectoral agreements compared to corporate agreements, which is fundamental, must be alleviated and corrective measures implemented to also mitigate the negative effects of indefinite contracts on entrepreneurs. In short, much remains to be done and I am convinced that we will do so with social dialogue and political consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u241	Thank you very much. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT ANTONIO BERMUDEZ DE CASTRO FERNANDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PRESENT TO THE CAMERA A PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM TO THE TERRITORIAL MODEL? [[File number 180/00676]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u242	Question addressed to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u243	Madam Minister, you have been defending these days that it is urgent to reform the Constitution and that it is necessary to define a new territorial model because you say that it is in crisis. It has even come to the point that political risks must be taken into account in this process. That is why I ask you: does the Government intend to bring to the House a proposal for constitutional reform affecting the territorial model? By the way, what political risks do we have to take? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u244	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u245	Thank you, President. Mr Bermúdez de Castro, the creation of the Commission for Assessment and Modernisation for the Autonomous State was a proposal by the then secretary general of the Socialist Party, today president of the Government, to debate in parliamentary session, to bring political groups' positions closer together and to finally share a diagnosis. The Government is not going to present any initiative in this regard, no unilateral initiative that casts doubt on that effort that all parliamentary groups have to make at parliamentary headquarters, at the headquarters of popular sovereignty, to bring positions closer together. The question is whether the People's Group is going to join those efforts or whether, on the contrary, it is going to continue to work to deepen the discrepancies and, ultimately, to wear down the Government with a policy that does not deserve that attitude at all by a parliamentary group like its own. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u246	Mr. Bermúdez de Castro, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u247	I am not surprised that the Vice-President has hidden herself and did not want to answer the question we asked her, because her answer shows that you have a problem, and that when you talk about reforming the Constitution you always stay in the titular reform, instead of explaining to all Spaniards what you want to reform, why and why you want to reform it. And you know why they don't? Because they don't know, because every day they say one thing: one day they talk about symmetrical federalism, another about asymmetric federalism, another about plurinational state, another about Spain being a nation of nations... The president of the Board of Andalusia tells them that they don't make him choose and that's nonsense. Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little serious because we are talking about the framework standard of coexistence between Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We defend, like most Spaniards, the current model, the autonomous state, and we are ready to improve it. That is why we are in that committee to which you have referred, but always to defend the general interest of the Spaniards, not the interest of a minority. Finally, you have come to the government without winning the elections, without a well-known programme and with the votes of the independenceists and radicals. If you have to pay a political price for this, you will have to explain it to this House and to the Spanish, but it will not be at the expense of reforming the Constitution. If you want to start this irresponsible journey, you will not have us at your side, you will have us in front of you, because we will never allow the principles of unity, single sovereignty, cohesion, equal rights and solidarity between Spanish people to be questioned or weakened. These principles will always be defended by the People's Group. So don't open a door if they don't know how to close it, they don't commit that irresponsibility. [[Applause.- Various Members: Good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u248	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u249	Thank you, President. In order for us to understand each other, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro, when we talk about common concerns, I wonder, do we want the Senate to be a genuine House of Territorial Representation? That is why the Constitution must be amended. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández makes negative gestures]] Do we want stable general principles for autonomous financing models? That is why the Constitution must be amended. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández makes negative gestures]] Do we want a better distribution of competences that generates a lower conflict between the state and the autonomous communities? That is why the Constitution must be amended. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández makes negative gestures]] Mr Bermúdez de Castro, there is no shortage of proposals from the Socialist Party or from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and what is needed is that there are no other political parties who see these proposals as a threat, who think that dialogue, listening to each other or exposing themselves in one Commission to debate with another that thinks differently is a threat. What we lack is that some groups, like yours, want to build instead of crissparing and continue using a theme as delicate as this to generate tension, a lot of tension that has been generated precisely during the last six years. I will tell you one thing, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at its time in the opposition, wanted the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group to launch this Commission. Today, the government and this Socialist Parliamentary Group... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u250	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JUAN ANTONIO LÓPEZ DE URALDE GARMENDIA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED TO ESTABLISH A CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION LAW? [[File number 180/00673]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u251	Question by Mr Juan Antonio López de Uralde Garmendia, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, addressed to the Minister for the Ecological Transition. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u252	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, you know very well that much is being said about climate change, but very little is being done. Since 1992 the global summit was signed, global greenhouse gas emissions have doubled, from 20 million tonnes to 40 million tonnes. In Spain we have had for six years a government of the People's Party that in recent years talked a lot about climate change; in the first years not, because Mr Rafael Hernando - who is now leaving the Chamber - said that climate change was a thing of ecocommunists and that he had not seen the rise of sea level. In recent years they evolved a little bit and promised over and over again that they were going to make a climate change law. They never introduced it; well, they introduced it when they were no longer in the Government, that is, last week. By the way, it was introduced by Mr Hernando himself, welcome to the fight against climate change. In short, we urgently need a climate change and energy transition law. The question is, is the Government going to make progress in that regard? What are the plans of this Government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u253	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u254	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The short answer is yes, we want to present a climate change and energy transition law and an integrated national energy and climate plan as soon as possible. We need a framework that, in a structural, systemic way, offers the signals to achieve a neutral economy in emissions, build resilience and responsiveness to the impacts of climate change and make that transition in a fair manner. I hope that the parliamentary groups will feel the same enthusiasm and need for this matter after, as you have rightly said, the People's Parliamentary Group has recently shown its interest. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. López de Uralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u256	Thank you, Minister. My group would like to make some contributions to what, from our point of view, should be the content of that law. Firstly, ambitious emission reduction targets. The objectives of the European Union are not enough for us because we are already obliged to fulfil them. We believe that if we need a law it is to go further: targets in renewable energy, targets in energy efficiency. In addition, we believe that a plan is needed to shut down nuclear power plants and to close coal but, yes, ensuring a fair transition, so that the net employment balance is zero, that is, that no jobs are lost in the affected areas. We bet on the recovery by the public administrations of the hydroelectric power plants once the concessions expire. We are in favour of reforming the electricity market to end with what are called the fallen benefits of the sky from nuclear power plants and hydroelectric plants. We are also in favour of measures to democratise the electricity system, sufficient measures to end once and for all energy poverty, an adaptation strategy with binding long-term objectives. In short, minister, we believe it is time. Act decisively and you will have our support. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u257	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u258	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your suggestions, all very interesting and that we will certainly have an opportunity to see in depth. I believe that, in addition to being bound towards Europe and the world, we are bound towards the Spaniards of today and the future, just as we are bound towards the workers and the investors. That's why I say it's a fundamental law. We are already working on a draft that I would like to be able to bring to light even before the summer, in its first version, from a text that seems to have been worked by the services of the ministry and which coincides quite with that presented by Mr Hernando last Friday. I think it is manifestly insufficient; we must strengthen the objectives, we must reinforce, we must recover something that is absent: the will to participate, to submit to criticism, to external analysis by the scientific community and, as you say, mechanisms of solidarity and clear objectives. It seems to me that it is essential to do so because I believe that it is a debate that should not be removed from the public debate. I believe that procedural guarantees in the procedures for the adoption of rules are fundamental guarantees and cannot come here with a text without previous work when the Government has the opportunity to open this debate to society as a whole, respecting the Spanish institutions and society as a whole. I am therefore pleased to receive all your proposals and to discuss with you and the rest of the parliamentary groups the content of a law that will be fundamental to the future of our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u259	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u260	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the geotechnical and security problems in the regrowth of the Yesa dam and the prospects of transparency and social dialogue. For your defence, Mr. Arrojo Agudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u261	Thank you, President. Minister, as you well know, the interpellation is centered on a particularly conflicting hydraulic work, that of Yesa's regrowth. [[The lady]] The case in question, although specific and particularly serious, is not an isolated case in so far as it is a consequence of a general approach that we continue to apply in Spain to major hydraulic works from a concept of the general interest that Europe already, today, requires us to change and adapt to what is called the best public interest defined by the Water Framework Directive. I must warn you, I would like to stress that in this matter it is not just a question of changing a name, it is something much deeper. With this interpellation, therefore, we want to put to the Government and the House the need to open a serious debate that will enable us to overcome those obsolete approaches that are often entangled in technocratic, authoritarian and opaque attitudes. The aim is to open spaces for transparency and effective and proactive citizen participation in line with the Aarhus Convention that Spain signed, so as to facilitate transit, the necessary transit from these old supply strategies to the new approaches to demand management and conservation of our ecosystems required by the 21st century framework directive and Europe. Entering directly into Yesa's regrowth, I will start from the monitoring report recently published by the Court of Auditors on the recruitment carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food and Environment in its implementation until 2017. I know that you inherit this and come from behind, so I feel that the People's Parliamentary Group is absent, that it has disappeared as an art of magic. Thus the court says, in a very harsh opinion: The realization of the works of regrowth of the reservoir of Yesa was awarded in December 2000 for a total of 120,4 million euros, however in 2017, after twelve years already since they should have finished the works, the amount executed is of at least 253,5 million euros, quite more than double the cost awarded; and if we take into account that the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation already warns that they are missing to certify 94,5 million, the total would be 348 million euros, that is, triple of what was awarded. And no one would, of course, bet that there would be no new costs, because everyone is talking about more than 400 million. The Court of Auditors, after analysing the case of Yesa and many others, and I do not at least resist quoting one of them, the case of La Loteta, where we have already thrown 100 million euros into the trash, concludes the following - Look at the terms in an official nomenclature, they are very hard -: The existence of defects or deficiencies in the initial projects, the lack of forecasting, the absence of reports or preceptive actions!, or the unforeseeing about the outcome of these actions, have caused their substantive alteration in terms of their final cost and their social profitability in terms of satisfaction of the public interest to which they must respond. That's so hard! In fact, the fact that the cost of this work has tripled, being very serious, is less so if we compare it with the risk that this project poses to the lives of thousands of people in Sangüesa and other municipalities downstream, because of the serious geotechnical problems that affect the closed area where the dam is located and its regrowth. Problems that, by the way, were already known by engineer René Petit, who built the Yesa dam in Franco's time. It was a question that tormented him for the rest of his life as he himself recognized in private and in public: My recurring nightmare - he often said - is Bloody devastated by a giant wave. Look: the existence of an active failure in an area of remarkable seismicity and the fragility of the slopes on which both the prey and the regrowth are based, create serious risks of slipping that can cause the prey to collapse, risks that would increase noticeably if the regrowth was filled in its full capacity. Several technical reports by Professors Casas and Aretxabala, from the universities of Zaragoza and Navarra respectively, experts in geotechnical problems, certify these risks that were confirmed empirically in 2013 by the important slides, on the right side, which in fact motivated the urgent expropriation of two urbanizations that were seriously affected. Unfortunately - again I would like to be heard by the parliamentarians of the People's Party - unfortunately neither the slippages that have occurred nor the growing public alarm or the demands of the municipalities, the Parliament of Navarre, the Government of Navarre, nor the scientific and technical studies published or the increasing and excessive costs of the work - which the Court of Auditors rightly denounces - led at no time to reconsider the project or to make the slightest effort of transparency and social dialogue. On the contrary, the former Government assumed a reckless strategy of opacity, authoritarian autism and fait accompli under the pretext of a purported general interest that obviously disappears as soon as the risk to people's lives arises. In any event, I will briefly analyse the arguments that justified this intended general interest for the previous Government. In its initial version, within the National Hydrological Plan of the Aznar Government, which planned to transfer 1000 cubic hectometres from the Ebro basin - they will remember -, the regrowth of Yesa increased its capacity precisely by 1000 cubic hectometres; by the way, flooding the people of Sigüés. This unusual regrowth was, in fact, the lung of that projected transvase. - Who we are in the world of water management, and that is out of the question, we all knew it. Subsequently and after the withdrawal of the transfer, the rate of the regrowth was reduced so as not to flood Sigüés. In any case, look, both the previous and the current regrowth were always justified on the role to regulate flows necessary for the new irrigations of Bardenas, in Bardenas III, and even for the supply of Zaragoza. However, it has never been explained in the past and has never been explained today how these huge flows would be transported to their hypothetical destinations, since the Bardenas Canal - which would have to transport them - in the months of irrigation, spring and summer, has no more transport capacity; it is full. But that's what everybody in Bardenas knows. To top it off, there is not even a pre-project of widening the channels; it would be very expensive; for that, there is not even a pre-project. Returning to the geotechnical problems, it is paradoxical that these problems occur in Spain, the country of the world with the most hydraulic infrastructure per inhabitant and square kilometer, with pioneering institutions in the world on basin management and planning; a country with a powerful and prestigious body of engineers and water experts. However, dear friends, dear fellow Members of Parliament, we are not strong in terms of legislation and regulations on the safety of prisoners. We are far from being at the level of the most advanced countries. In particular, the current legislation does not specify the so-called safety factor in the risk of slipping on slopes, leaving it to the discretion of persons and institutions who can be pressured of all kinds and who, in any case, with or without pressure, can make reckless or reckless decisions that would not, strictly, remain outside the law. And here, ladies and gentlemen, it is everyone's responsibility. I have tabled a motion for a law that the People's Party and the Government vetoed, with the support of Citizens then at the Bureau, and I hope that we can now discuss it, thanks to the veto being lifted - this issue is there, among many others -. On the other hand, beyond the risk on the lives of thousands of people, if once the work was completed the regrowth reservoir was filled and new slope slides were produced, even if at the moment they were not catastrophic, such as those that began in 2013 and that the Hydrographic Confederation had categorically said that they were impossible, the technical recommendation, for the safety of people's lives, would be to slowly empty the reservoir until the entry quota to the Bardenas Canal, which would transform the reservoir of Yesa into a great blue-steel of derivation with very little effective capacity for regulation, that is, we would end the irrigation of Bardenas, and that is not told to the regants or the relevant forecasts that can be made. In short, we are facing a project as dangerous as it is expensive, managed in an authoritarian and opaque way, which, in addition to the brutal increase in costs - indeed - denounced by the Court of Auditors, imposes, as has been explained, unacceptable risks on thousands of people, while endangering the irrigation of Bardenas. You, Minister, have just taken charge of the ministry. He will therefore have to study in depth the issues that we are raising with him. I'm almost in a hurry and I apologize for breaking in with this debate, but basically I'm going to ask you four questions that I'm sure you can and will answer. - In my second intervention, I will spell out more the profile of what the motion is going to be. First, is the new Government aware of the serious geotechnical problems I have briefly explained and of the risks that this poses to thousands of families in Sangüesa and lower water municipalities? Secondly, is the new Government prepared to change the opaque, autistic and authoritarian attitude of the former Government in its strategy of fait accompli? Thirdly, is the new Government prepared to resume inter-institutional dialogue with the Government of Navarre, with the municipalities concerned? And fourthly, is the new Government prepared to promote social dialogue, between all the parties involved, with scrupulous transparency, in such a delicate matter, as tremendous as the security of life for people in entire peoples under Yesa? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Sharp Red. Next, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for the Ecological Transition.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u263	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is an honor for me to come up on this first occasion to the rostrum, even if it is for a subject that, as the interpeller has said very well, has a lot of history behind his back, and some margin of action still limited. It is an almost finished infrastructure, with more than twenty years and many vavenes, as Mr Arrojo has explained very well. This is an infrastructure that has raised concern in the environment and I would like to explain what I have learned in these early days from the ministry services where we are before answering the four specific questions that you asked me. The regrowth of the Yesa dam, as it says, was declared a work of general interest to ensure the supply of more than 800,000 people from Zaragoza and its environment and the ecological flow of the Aragon River, as well as to cover other supplies in the area and provide support in situations of need and drought. To these uses is added the safety one, which may have different versions, but it is also important to bring it up. It was considered that increasing the volume of regulation would reduce the risk of flooding, given the rolling capacity of avenues of the Aragon River and the protection of the Sangüesa core that involved the existence of this reservoir. In fact, the current dam has been important in the reduction of conditions both in the Aragon and in the axis of the Ebro during the last periods of avenues, highlighting those of 2013 and 2015 thanks to this effect lamination and management that was made at that time and recently during the avenues last April. Yesa and Itoiz were instrumental in reducing the effects of the Ebro riada and preventing the eviction of people from their homes, calculating that they were able to embalmer or reduce 600 cubic meters per second of the Ebro avenue volume and that otherwise we would have had an Ebro with 25% more flow, increasing risks and damage caused. The works of Yesa, as you have well illustrated, Mr.Rrojo, have gone through multiple vicissitudes. Let me remind you that in this context, as I pointed out, of the water pact of Aragon assumed in the Hydrological Plan, we have seen among vavenes how it rose from the current 447 hectometers to the 1500 cubic hectometers and how it was further reduced. Between 2002 and 2011, three amendments were approved which, among other things, incorporate changes to adapt the regrowth project to a new quota with a normal maximum level of 511 metres in winter, spring and summer and 509 metres in autumn. It has also referred to this reference and is, by the way, part of the conditions included in the environmental impact statement with respect to that new version of a recreated Yesa, but less than originally envisaged. To this end, the relevant technical and safety amendments shall be made. The intention is to reduce the affections to the new protection figures defined after the regrowth project, reduce the affection to the route of Santiago and avoid floods in the historic center of Sigüés, which fortunately is saved in the new version of the work. It is true that the project turns, in my view, substantively, when the slides take place in which the millimetric movement produced in July 2012 is accelerated after a period of intense rains in January 2013. In addition to the temporary delays, costs and cost overruns, all of them certainly undesirable and regardless of that other ruling of the Court of Auditors to which you referred, I would like to highlight the immense personal cost that all of this has entailed for families who have been forced to vacate their homes in the Mirador de Yesa and Lasaitasuna urbanizations, in Navarre, by compromising their safety. These slides forced two emergency works and stabilization of the right side during 2013 and tell me from the Directorate General of Water that this has meant an investment of 25 million euros additional in two phases, which make up the excavation of more than 1.65 million cubic meters in the head and the execution of concrete blocks on the foot of the side. Despite the stabilization works, the reclamation works have followed their course and the reports issued by the technical management indicated that the completion of the reclamation works will contribute to the stabilization of the slope. Today, the Directorate General of Water considers that Yesa's work of regrowth has legal and technical guarantees in terms of safety, and affects the existence of comprehensive and continuous control by the ministry through the confederation and the Directorate General of Water, both on the right side of the dam and on the existing dam, and has an emergency plan already implemented. The reports of this Directorate-General are profuse in explaining the level of monitoring that has been incorporated, the controls: the four hundred control points installed to ensure the safety of the works, the seventy-nine topographic observation points, twenty-four inclinometric points only to monitor the movements, the use of last generation instruments, the information obtained that is submitted to the interpretation by external experts and that must be made public with total transparency, as you indicate. Therefore, what the Directorate-General for Water says is that the performance of all these actions and the reports available since June 2014 make it possible to state that the work is sufficiently stable and safe. However, I believe that this technical approach made from the solvent information - I understand - of the technicians of the Directorate-General for Water does not eliminate some of the key concerns that you have indicated. I understand the reactions to the personal consequences that all this entails for the affected families and I also understand the manifestations of the City Councils of Yes or Blood or the pronouncements of the Parliament of Navarre and the rest of the municipalities involved. In a matter like this it is particularly important, significant, to be as cautious as possible and to apply the precautionary principle to all outstanding actions in this work and in the future management of this infrastructure. In that regard, I would at least like to pick up three fundamental ideas for what remains to come: firstly, the importance of keeping ourselves within what was stipulated in the environmental impact statement of 4 August 2010, which introduces an obligation to reduce the 521 metre growth rate of the approved project to a 511 metre share. Secondly, it is absolutely essential - you pointed out - to resume the institutional dialogue with the autonomous communities and the municipalities concerned, but it is not enough. In addition to the institutional dialogue, however important and transparent it should be, it is also essential to regain dialogue with the different social groups involved in Yesa and its environment; it has little sense to work on something that can generate alarm. Thirdly, I think it is interesting that you pointed out that there is a need to update and collect slide safety factors in the regulations on dam safety. I do not know this gap with regard to what is happening in other countries in our environment, but it seems to me that it is a suggestion worthy of estimation, consideration and that, therefore, the ministry itself must understand how to make progress in this work, with the technical help of those who are relevant, public and research institutions in this country, for the purpose of proposing some concrete idea. Finally, I would like to make a comment that I believe is also substantive, important, and that it has a journey that goes beyond this infrastructure that we are talking about. You will agree with me that there is much to do and change in water. There is a transition ahead that we cannot forget and, while it is true that the Water Framework Directive is about to turn twenty years old, the fact is that we have taken a long time to incorporate and understand the significance it has and the rate of change that we have to push from the Spanish institutions to make the principles and criteria that such a directive sets for water planning and use prevail. In 2015, the European Commission sent the Government a long list of objections to the content of water plans in river basins and it is not clear that the Community requirements have been incorporated into current water plans to date. However, these recommendations are fundamental criticisms in designing a water policy for the twenty-first century that forgets the possibility of offering as much as it is requested and that, on the contrary, think about water as it is, a precious asset and a scarce resource that can count on additional supplements by other means, but that must be treated and managed in accordance with the principles of that directive. Therefore, I believe that in the context of the action of this ministry, the water-energy binomial with sustainability criteria by launching messages, signals and actions that allow us to update the criteria according to which we make our decisions as consumers, as investors and as citizens, must be a priority on the agenda of this government. It is an important ethical and political dimension from which the Government must not escape, reinforcing, as we have always stressed since the first day, our vocation to do so in a dialogue, consensus and with full participation and transparency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u264	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Rhojo Agudo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u265	Thank you, Minister. It is a pleasure to have you as a minister at the moment, but we will have to continue to discuss it, although at least you understand many of the issues that I believe are beginning to raise. I understand that you are being prepared with certain notes that are required to be exposed by you, but no one denies the interest of the dams in rolling avenues. Don't bring this up again because no one denies it. It is not the debate. Nor is it the debate to say whether there are measures, whether there are elements of control. There are many, but the problem is that with regard to these control elements, if the slide occurs, it does not prevent it. That's not the solution. As for transparency, there is no transparency, there is no access to all data. There has been a blockade that there may be technicians incorporated into the research teams, technicians of recognized prestige who are of the confidence of the neighbors and people who are afraid and right. That's got to be fixed. In any case, today's debate is not whether or not Yesa is recreated, because Yesa is practically recreated, but how that recreated prey is managed. I am aware, because I have been told by high-level prison safety technicians verbally, that this recreated prey must be maintained as a reinforcement on the slopes, but not fill it to the highest level because it would greatly increase the risks of slope slipping. Therefore, it is maintained, but not filled beyond what is now filled. They have been at least verbal recommendations that you can investigate once you enter into control of everything behind in the ministry's roles. In short, the issue is how it is managed. There is another debate that is already in the area, and it is whether there are a series of queued performances in the Sigüés area that are very hard for people and that it is not yet known whether that wall that is being made in Sigüés and those expropriations make sense, because if in the end it was decided that it is not prudent to fill, it would be avoidable that pain to the people in the area. I therefore believe that these are the debates. With what you said, I think we're in the right line. I would invite you - I am going to say so, without any pain - to take up the enormous contribution that Cristina Narbona made when she was minister of the first government of Zapatero. She's the president of your party, not mine, but I recognize her. The process of launching the social dialogue through mediation proposed by the social movements in Aragon in the problems of large dams was a success that we are now all proud of in conflicts as acute as that of Santaliestra or that of Matarraña. Take that back. It is not necessary to invent many things; it repeats that tradition that led the Socialist Party with the first government of Zapatero. The second one wasn't like that. From this expectation, which I hope you will listen, launch and promote, I point out to you some lines of what the motion will be later. First of all, the dialogue and appropriate inter-agency collaboration of the Ministry with the Government and Parliament of Navarre, as well as with the municipalities concerned, must be restored. I don't care who sends it in every place. It is the institutions and the inter-institutional dialogue must be restored. Secondly, there is an urgent need to open a space for dialogue in which, in addition to the Ministry and the Hydrographic Confederation, the Government of Navarre, the Government of Aragon, the municipalities involved, the regents of Bardenas and the affected groups in the area are involved. Thirdly, it is also urgent to promote a study on the geotechnical risks of the restrictions and management strategies to be applied in this regrowth of the prey by independent experts of recognized prestige who raise the confidence of all parties involved. I don't want to question the administration technicians. Simply, with the practice that the Administration - not the technicians - has done, in this case the People's Party, there is no confidence in what is communicated, because not everything is communicated. Therefore, that which the Government of Navarre is about to bid, an international study with experts of recognized international standing independent, if it is done by the Government of Navarre, go ahead, but we would like it to be an agreement between all the parties, that the ministry should speak with the Government of Navarre and with the Government of Aragon and that such a study should be conducted under the confidence of all the people involved. It is necessary to prevent impacts on the irrigation system of Bardenas if further possible displacements of the village forced a low filling quota for Yesa. The Fundación Nueva Cultura del Agua (New Water Culture Foundation) has long been insisting on promoting dams and regulating rafts in transit that could be filled even if the quota was low. It can be as much capacity as regrowth. It's feasible, it's said. I'm almost done. Current actions that are damaging spaces and properties in a very painful way should be stopped when it is not yet known whether or not these tail areas will be flooded. Make a prudent moratorium to avoid avoidable pain! It's feasible, it's reasonable, it's prudent. And if in the end it's safe to fill up, take those performances. Finally, the existing legislation and regulations on the safety of dams must be reformed - I have already said - by establishing a safety factor for the risks of slipping slopes and slopes similar, at least, to those in the United States, Italy and Portugal. Dear friends, this dam in the United States would be illegal, in Portugal would be illegal and in Italy would be illegal. Let us hold this debate and reform the law to improve it in a sense as important as the safety of people in the face of the geotechnical risks of large dams. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Sharp Red. Minister for the Ecological Transition, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u267	Given the hours, I will give you great joy, because I will be extraordinarily brief in my answer. Mr. Arrojo, yes to institutional dialogue. Yes to social participation in management decisions. Yes to strengthen the technical criterion, including that of experts of full solvency and knowledge and trust on the part of the local population. Yes to transparency and yes to understand, if necessary, how far, how or what is the best way to strengthen this issue of safety of dams, and the incorporation of sliding risk factors through the procedure that we consider necessary after the start of the work and reports that are needed for this purpose. We therefore look forward with curiosity, interest and positive openness to the motion that you are about to put forward, and on that we will be able to work concretely, regardless of whether we get to work from the ministry on the issues that I have just pointed out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u268	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the form in which the Government intends to substantiate the announced dialogue with the Government of Generality and on its priorities for government action for Catalonia. [[Señor CAMPUZANO]] [[File number 172/000131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u269	We move on to the urgent appeal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, on the way in which the Government intends to pursue the dialogue announced with the Government of the Generalitat, and on its priorities for government action for Catalonia. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Batet, if we had to define the feelings that many citizens had the days after the motion of censure or the very day of the motion of censure we would probably talk about hope for some, of expectation for many, of skepticism and distrust for many too - at least in Catalonia and from the ranks of the Democratic Party -. In any case, we are in a new scenario that should allow the return of politics to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and the institutions of the State. But, Mrs Batet, first of all, this political scenario continues to be marked by the enormous abnormality of the temporary unjust prisons that affect nine political and social leaders in Catalonia, the exile of former members of the Government of Catalonia headed by President Puigdemont, the disproportionate penalties that the prosecution has imposed and that Judge Llarena has also raised, in the process that now seems to be entering one of its last stages. All this in a context, Mrs Batet, in which that feeling of abuse of justice - and not justice understood as such, but justice understood as revenge - even goes beyond what is directly linked to the so-called process. This week in Barcelona nine young people from my city, from Vilanova i la Geltrú, are being tried for unfortunate incidents in that city in 2014, but also accompanied by absolutely disorbited prison requests. Today in Catalonia - but not only in Catalonia - there is a feeling of poor functioning of justice in relation to political issues and political behavior. And there the government has decisions to make in its field: some strictly legal - such as that unjustly imprisoned prisoners were already in Catalan prisons - and others with the positions that the Attorney General's Office will maintain in the coming days, weeks and months. Today, our spokesman for justice, Mrs Ciurò, will have the opportunity to discuss this with the new State Attorney General. In any case, Mrs Batet, without the freedom of prisoners, political normality will not be possible. Secondly, if anything has characterized the long period beginning around 2012 it has been the absence of political dialogue by State institutions to meet the demands of Catalan society. In view of this, the Catalan position during all these years has been very clear: always offer dialogue to the institutions of the State in order to find political solutions. In autumn 2012, President Mas proposed to Rajoy a fiscal pact, at a time when that was the majority demand of Catalan society. In April 2014, in this House, a delegation from the Catalonian Parliament, which represented something vastly more than the absolute majority of the members of the Catalonian Parliament, proposed a delegation of powers based on a constitutional precept for the Generalitat to organize a referendum on the political future of Catalonia. Or even in the most difficult and complicated moments of this month of October, President Puigdemont offered mediation and dialogue to channel the Catalan demands that appeared after the consultation on 1 October. The Catalan position has always been the position of seeking dialogue. Faced with this, we have not only had President Rajoy's tancristic attitude of not responding to any of those requests or repressive policy whose consequences we are living with these unjust prisons, but also that during this long period of time there has been a real constitutional counter-reform by the multitude of laws that the People's Party has adopted, some of them with the support of the Socialist Party, and that the concept of self-government has been emptied of in content, under two headings which have been the two major re-centralizing headings of these years, which have been the unity of the market and a purported equality of rights of all citizens, which become uniform in all public policies, and which deny the assertion that some make so bluntly that Spain is the most decentralized State in the world. On the contrary, in these five years there has been a setback that has placed us on many issues almost before 1978, accompanied by a huge conflict with the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament of Catalonia. There are about sixteen laws passed in Parliament, certainly some of them with the support of the Catalan Socialists, who ended up in the Constitutional Court and who had powers that, in our opinion, corresponded to the Government and Parliament, and that affected such important things as the fight against climate change, the creation of an agency to ensure the cybersecurity of citizens, trade policies appropriate to the needs of the twenty-first century or to deal with pressing social problems such as energy poverty or housing problems. There has been a systematic attitude of the Spanish Government to confront these initiatives adopted by Parliament with a very broad majority, and in addition with a systematic breach of current legislation, the Catalonian Autonomy Statute itself or the commitments on autonomous financing. Therefore proposal for dialogue of the governments of Catalonia in the face of a majority demand in Catalonia. In front of that, repression. Faced with this, the de facto constitutional counter-reform. Faced with this, the systematic breach of the State's obligations towards Catalonia. Faced with this, the competitive conflictivity as never before in the last forty years. And all this, Minister, culminated in the application of Article 155, which was supported by the Socialist Party, and we must always remember that, with this financial control of the finances of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and with a decree that became an instrument of pressure, of mooving to Catalan companies to change their social domiciles in Catalonia. That's the picture. The political dialogue that we are proposing is landing on this terrible landscape, in which confidences and bridges have been broken, and which is going to demand that the political effort of all is not purely a rhetorical exercise. Moreover, Mrs Batet, all this is happening in a political context that cannot be obviated either, which is the political context of the results of 21 December last year, in an election in which sovereignism competes with candidates in prison and with candidates in exile, with a conviction of the Spanish media system that sovereignism should be defeated, and sovereignism in those elections and under those conditions revalidates its majority in the Catalan Parliament. When the citizens have been given the power to decide under what logic they should govern in Catalonia, the citizens defend that they should govern under the logic that marked the last legislature: the demand for the right to decide and the aspiration to the State itself for Catalonia. Those results must be recognized and what they imply in political terms. Citizens in Catalonia have not rejected the demand for their own state and the demand for the right to decide, it has reaffirmed it with this absolute independenceist majority in the Catalan Parliament. [[The Lord]] Similarly, Mrs Batet, you cannot give up on October 1st. That is where I advise the Socialist Government to apply the principle of reality. The first October of 2017 is an indisputable political event; it is for this reason that more than 2,300,000 people will vote, as a democratic exercise, as a democratic expression of Catalonia's citizenship. But it is also because the repressive attitude of the State that morning, sending the National Police and the Civil Guard to prevent citizens from exercising their civil and political rights, gave that day a real symbolic political burden, which makes us hundreds of thousands of Catalans who feel politically committed to what it implied on October 1. Therefore, Mrs Batet, we must not park on 1 October. Moreover, with regard to 1 October, there are criminal responsibilities of the State that someone must bear for these police burdens against those citizens. We hope that some of the criminal proceedings against the National Police and the Civil Guard in Catalonia will continue and that no one will prevent their normal development. Because, Mrs Batet, the fundamental issue of political dialogue - the real political dialogue, the political issue we are dealing with - is no other, Minister, than the recognition of Catalonia as a nation and the acceptance that Catalonia is what the Catalans want it to be. It is the realization of the right to decide, of the right to self-determination. The relevant question is: is the Spanish political system, as a whole, prepared to accept that what Catalans want is possible? Or will the Spanish political system continue to understand that Catalans may want what they want, but if they want the independence of their own state that will never, for centuries, be possible? Mr Batet, in democratic terms it is very clear that this is an absolutely unacceptable position, and therefore, if it is the fundamental position that the Government is going to maintain in the coming times, the Catalan question is not going to be resolved in the democratic terms that it would be desirable for it to be resolved, but the Catalan question is going to remain at the heart of the conflict. In this sense, Minister, 9 July is an opportunity to start a path in a dialogue in which we can all defend our ideas without giving up anything or preventing any aspiration to our societies. If not, as I said, dialogue becomes a simple rhetorical exercise that may entertain us for a few days, a few weeks, a few months, but which will not serve as a political instrument to solve a question as deep, as democratically radical as that which Catalan society has raised with the State in recent years. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u272	Thank you, President. Mr Campuzano, I would like to start with three considerations, three previous questions, if I may, before I go into this matter. The first is that you are heading here as a legislative power to the executive power, not to the judiciary, which as you well know is a power separate from the executive power, independent, proper to a democratic society like all those in our environment. [[applause]] There are no exiles in Spain; there are escapees from Spanish justice, Mr Campuzano. [[Applauds]] Second consideration. You're free to look back; we're not going to do it, we don't want to do it. The Government of Spain wants to look forward, because if what we intend to do is build a future, looking back only leads us to reproach and aggravation. We prefer to build a positive future, because that is what Catalan society and the whole of Spanish society are waiting for from us. Thirdly, the absolute majority legitimizes to rule, Mr Campuzano, but not to break with legality or the rule of law and the democratic state. Mr. Campuzano, the Government is not only thinking about how to pursue dialogue with the Government of the Generalitat, it has in fact already taken active and relevant steps precisely to walk in that direction. It is this Government that has proposed the holding of a meeting between the President of the Generalitat, Mr Torra, and the President of the Government. It is this Government that has curbed the dynamics of confrontation, and it is this Government that has also lifted the pre-control of the payments of the Generalitat. We have proposed a meeting which, as you said, will take place on 9 July. It is the first direct dialogue in many months between two legitimate State institutions, the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat. That meeting is going to take place, it is true, within the framework of meetings with all the presidents of the Autonomous Communities, this is also exceptional in some way. The President of the Government will meet with the autonomous presidents regardless of their ideology and political options, always taking into account their character as representative public institution and at the service of their citizens, of all the citizens of the community, because that is the institutional attitude that is expected and that the Government of Spain must have, but also that is expected and that they must have the rest of the autonomous presidencies and governments. It is this government that has stopped the dynamic of constant and permanent public confrontation that has done so much damage in the end to coexistence in Catalonia, to citizens, and throughout Spain, but in what the governments of the Generalitat have believed so much for so many years, for whose distension the governments of the Generalitat have worked so little in recent years. He said that it is also this Government that has lifted the prior control of the payments of the Generalitat. It has been a fundamental measure for the restoration of institutional normality in Catalonia's autonomy. If we cannot ask researchers and universities, who were also affected by this measure, because every time they had to buy a pen or make a request for a laboratory they needed this prior authorization for the bank to proceed to credit. That is also facilitating people's lives, that is also facilitating the lives of citizens of Catalonia. All these measures have taken place in just three weeks of change, Mr Campuzano, so we are not only thinking about how to dialogue, but we are also taking steps in the right direction. We hope to do more. The next step should be in the interview next day 9. Let us give an opportunity to dialogue among governments and do not try to move forward here or precipitate the elements of the meeting between the presidents, trust them to determine the possibilities for immediate action and we will not take their place. Firstly, because it is up to them to decide the lines of dialogue. I will take up the lines put forward by the President of the Government, President Sánchez, I assume that you will also respect and accept the lines that you adopt and that you will establish President Torra. But above all because precipitating agreements is the surest way to make them impossible and even turn them into a bold weapon for conflict. I do not think that we should fall into that risk, on the contrary, we should be working - you and I and so many other Members and members of the Government - so that after the meeting on 9 July a second, a third and a fourth could be promoted. The Government believes that it is its duty to dialogue with the institutions of the Generalitat, and we also believe that this dialogue is necessary in order to make progress in overcoming the crisis we have been living in Catalonia for many years; a crisis that has worried some of us for years and that today we are concerned almost all of us, also you. But the fundamental dialogue of every institution is with the citizens, a dialogue to give reasons for the positions defended, a dialogue also to convince of the lines of progress, and above all a dialogue to become aware of the different positions of the citizens and to be honest and loyal with all of them. I have referred to this dialogue and to this orientation in recent days in Parliament, and also outside Parliament, with the ideas of loyalty and reciprocity. A loyalty to citizens who do not think like parliamentary majorities and governments, which I insist they have legitimacy and ability to govern. Political options may be different, but Governments must assume the obligation to defend the rights of all citizens and of all citizens, and to respect and consider the ideas of all citizens. This reciprocity goes so far as to assume that there is no single position of the Catalans or the Spanish or of Spain and Catalonia. We cannot speak on behalf of everyone or on behalf of a people, and therefore perhaps we should speak with less demands and less assurances. To distort the arguments of the other, from my point of view, does not encourage dialogue, Mr Campuzano. Our argument is that Catalonia and Spain are plural, and you know it. They are plural, not ideal and homogeneous entities, but realities formed by citizens with different ideas. Neither can you speak for Catalonia nor I, of course, can speak for Catalonia or Spain, because misrepresenting the conflict leads us to misrepresent in its treatment. To assume reality is also an obligation of every politician, even if we want and have the will to change that reality, even if we want to transform that reality, because we have to be aware of the reality to which it is based, because if we do not also go wrong in the solutions that we can give, in the solutions that we put on the table. Mr. Campuzano, I want to share with you three thoughts. The first - I have said it in some way - is that the dialogue that you refer to and have referred to in this rostrum, the sincere dialogue, the loyal dialogue, the constructive dialogue is not carried out by means of interpellations and motions, which of course does not mean that they do not present them, but we know that this is not the way to build that dialogue, not by threats or demands at the time of the beginning of the process of discussion with newly appointed governments; the dialogue goes first through the presentation of their own positions, through the consideration of those of the other, and through the attempt to bring them closer together. The second consideration or second reflection is that I can understand your impatience, because it is true that we have been waiting for many years to change course, we have been waiting for many years for possible political solutions to a conflict that we know has only been aggravated. I therefore understand your impatience, but I would also like and I would like you to use it to ask the Government of the Generalitat for proposals for dialogue and ideas, even if they are as modest and as little - because they certainly seem to you as little - as those already made by the Government to which I belong, and you could even formulate them yourself to express to us here, in the parliamentary seat, what your proposals and your paths of dialogue are, beyond the referendum, of yes or yes - that if we know it, that we know it and today it has spoken of it - which has shown only the futility of seeing again and again the fracture of our society. It is not a good way to go further in the fracture of Catalan society. The third consideration I want to make to you, Mr Campuzano, is that before you make a statement, before you make a proposal, before you make a government action as a parliamentary group, I propose that we think about what that statement, proposal or action can bring us, what it can generate confidence, what it can help distension and create that climate of confidence that you said has actually broken. Let us make that analysis and only then let us make the statement, make the proposal and carry out the action. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u273	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u274	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Batet, little nostalgia. But there are some things that cannot be obviated, and therefore what has happened this autumn will be part of the political reality of relations between Catalonia and the whole state. I can speak on behalf of the MPs and MPs of the Democratic Party, but you must acknowledge that since 2012 in Catalonia the social, political majority is insistent, persistent and tenacious in defending the right to decide. That's a political fact! It is a substantial political fact that cannot be overlooked, I do not ask you to accept this approach here today, but I demand that you understand that this is the substantive political question; that this is the substantive political question. And let him understand that other European societies and other democratic societies have found legal, democratic and intelligent formulas to channel these demands, and that if any lesson can be learned from what has happened during this period of time is that when a solid, persistent, majority, peaceful and democratic demand of a society the political and institutional system is not able to channel it, that demand overflows and enters into the situation in which we have now entered, that of the breach of trust, the breaking of bridges, the injustice of prisons, the injustice of those who are in exile and who seek refuge in European justice; and that perhaps we are seeing that in European justice they find that justice that they do not find in Spain. That is the point of substance. And I would say that the difficulty of the political dialogue in which we are established is that probably because we disagree, Mrs Batet, we still do not even agree on the nature of the conflict. Full confidence in the presidents, at least I in President Torra, full confidence of our deputies and our deputies in President Torra, full confidence in what is decided on 9 July. Hope? That on 9 July two, three, four meetings should come out; absolutely convinced of this and modest in the aspirations for this inquiry and the motion that we can discuss. But it is a reminder - and this is the meaning of this question, Mrs Batet - that either the Socialist Government is clear about the nature of the political problem facing it or it is difficult to resolve this political issue. And understanding a question that is not less in democratic and political terms, how is it that the cost that Spain has paid to meet the demands of Catalan society is very high in terms of rights, freedoms and the very credibility of the democratic institutions of the Spanish State, is very high! The Spanish State has decided to sacrifice rights and freedoms on behalf of the unity of Spain. It is the political cost of refusing to find formulas to channel these demands of Catalan society, and I insist that the main demand that generates consensus in Catalonia, which generates broad majorities; that in some moments came to defend the Socialist Party of Catalonia, when Pere Navarro was the first secretary of the PSC, had to do with the right to decide. That demand cannot be ignored; and by obviating it it has led to this violation of rights and freedoms and this degradation of the democratic institutions of the State, and therefore with prudence, with empathy, we must claim to you courage, audacity. Therefore, with prudence, with empathy, we must claim to you courage, boldness, not to pretend to simply contemplate the situation, but to have the political height to understand that this demand must be channelled. Mrs Batet, there are two very obvious issues too. One, as Mr Pedro Sánchez was shown in the motion of censure, that ruling against Catalonia has high costs. And Mr Rajoy passed, but the demand of the Catalans to exercise their right to decide continues, and perhaps Mr Sánchez will pass, but Catalonia's will to be a nation and to exercise as such will continue. Therefore, in the face of this indisputable political fact, which also marks the history of Catalonia and of Spain of the twentieth century and which is marking the history of the beginning of the twenty-first century, we need politics, boldness, courage, capacity for dialogue. I trust that that meeting on 9 July will begin to mark, albeit timidly, that path that I hope we can take. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u276	Thank you, President. Mr Campuzano, you were talking about the fundamental issue, and it is that dialogue only has meaning from trust, and for there to be confidence, two fundamental elements must be given: one, respect for the other, and respect for the other means demanding respect for the institutions of their own, which they consider to be their own, and offering respect for the institutions which they consider to be each other. That's respect, reciprocity. The Presidency of the Generalitat, the Parliament of Catalonia, the Government of the Generalitat are asked to be respected, and this respect is found in the Government of Spain. And the Government of Spain demands respect for the Government of Spain, the Head of State, the Congress of Deputies and the other institutions representing all Spaniards. Reciprocity. Second element. In addition to respect for the other, respect for the system that allows us to do politics. If we do not respect the rules of the game, if we do not respect the democratic system that we have given ourselves and that is the one that legitimizes us to be here, you and I representing all citizens, if we do not respect that system, neither can there be a generation of confidence that will allow us to do politics. Even when confidence requires a voluntarist effort after too long of distrust and disappointment, reciprocity is and is essential, Mr Campuzano. As I find it difficult at times - and I speak first in this case - to rely on loyalty and genuine willingness to dialogue with independent parties, I assume that the same can happen, which can be given in the other direction. We must restore confidence, we have lost it, Mr Campuzano, you are right; you recognized it in your first intervention and I repeat it. That is also a reality; a reality that makes it difficult for us to make the policy that we demand and that the Spanish Government wants to do and is willing to do. Let us therefore reconfigure that trust and work to generate and nurture that trust. And that means being generous and taking risks, of course. Not taking the risk of trying is the direct way to failure, it is the way already experienced, Mr Campuzano, it is the way that we have already known, that we have already lived and that we have already suffered: fracture and failure. What is not a beacon is the real anguish that millions of Catalans and Catalans have been suffering for years. That's not a beacon, it's a reality, and it's reality - and I tell you honestly - that worries me the most, the most. Our will and aim is to respond to that concern precisely, to that anguish, to begin to reduce it and to do so also with reciprocity, to reduce it equally for all citizens. We have never been a beacon in that goal, never, nor during the years of independence growth, nor during the months of the Generalitat's intervention, nor, of course, now that we have responsibilities of government. That is why we demand trust and risk-taking in the development of dialogue. I'll give you a thought, Mr. Campuzano. According to the People's Group, the independence parties will never undertake reforms that are not a danger to the unity of Spain, to territorial integration and to the viability and continuation of that country; according to the independence parties, the People's Group will never undertake reforms that are not an absolute catastrophe to its national conceptions. For I say to you that the Spanish Government now trusts the People's Group and you more than you do yourself. We think that it is possible to re-work for new consensuses, we think that it is possible to re-edit and re-acquire consensuses, as happened in 1978 or as happened with the autonomic pacts of the 1990s or with the successive reforms of the autonomic financing systems. I end up as you claimed me, Mr Campuzano: I ask you for boldness, boldness to agree, boldness to sit down to maintain that sincere dialogue from trust and loyalty to build those new consensuses. I'm telling you, I'm not an orteguian, I'm not gonna settle for the behavior. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u277	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the reform of the model of autonomous financing. [[File number 172/000132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u278	We turn to the next item: urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the reform of the autonomous funding model. For your defence, Mr. Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u279	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Montero, you've been given the first one on the front. Not a week has it taken Mr Sánchez, who appointed her, to stop her dry in this matter from financing our autonomous communities for which we are asking her today, ultimately from financing basic public services: health, education and social services. Not a week has it taken Mr. Sánchez to disallow Mrs. Díaz. I would say more, not a week has it taken Mr Sánchez not only to disallow Mrs Díaz, but also Mr Fernández, Mr Lambán, Mr Puig or Mrs Armengol, that is to say all the presidents of the autonomous communities of the Socialist Party to whom he has today in frank rebellion. We could even say that Mr Sánchez did not take a week to do something that is already customary: to disauthorize himself, because he had been before yesterday the one who most vehemently demanded the change of the financing model, that is, without making a concrete proposal, or a single one, sure that in order not to get his fingers and thus be able to show us from Moncloa the firm hands of determination. [[Laughter and applause]] Not a week. And it is that while you, as Mrs Diaz's advisor, had in this matter all the emergencies, now as Mr Sánchez' minister you know from last week that, from emergencies, nothing; that of updating the system of financing autonomous communities in the time that this legislature lasts, nothing; that you want to be in the government until 2020, but that of governing and making decisions so that through the autonomous communities we can improve our health services, education, dependence, nothing at all. So, Mrs. Montero, the first one's been put on her forehead. Today you cannot come here and tell the House that one of your priorities is to close the negotiation already started to update the autonomous financing system, because Mr Sánchez took care last week to postpone this issue to the next parliamentary term. I mean, kick ahead and he'll throw the one that comes. There are no more emergencies, ladies and gentlemen, there are no more priorities. There are no more emergencies, Mrs. Montero, and you know why? Because the only thing really urgent was that Mr Sánchez was president of the government without having obtained the majority support of the Spaniards in the polls. [[Applauds]] That was the only urgency, even at the expense of the public services of the Spaniards, as has become evident to everyone in just one week. But once Mr Sánchez was President of the Government, the needs of the Spaniards would be postponed, which only a week ago was evident to everyone, it is no surprise to the People's Parliamentary Group. We said that censorship did not offer the Spaniards a common project of viable solutions to their problems, viable solutions to public affairs. We have already said that, in the face of the prediction of a government to the dictate of Podemos and conditioned by the separatists, the different realities that our fellow citizens are living would be seen sine die. And we also knew that on this issue of financing it was even more serious, because it is not only about the differences with the other political groups, but it is about the differences themselves that cohabit in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Mrs Montero, since the January 2017 Conference of Presidents at which the process of updating our funding system began, it has been impossible to know a coherent and concrete position of the Socialist Party in this area. For the past year and a half, it has not been possible for us to know whether the Socialist Party in terms of funding shares, as the People's Party defends, that when we talk about the financing of fundamental services we talk about equality between Spaniards, we talk about the principle of equality, we talk about the fact that a girl from Cáceres or a child in Ibiza must be equal in education, they must be equal in access to health services, or that an older person in Lugo, Seville or Madrid must be able to receive the different benefits of social or dependency services on equal terms. We are talking about equality of public services, we are talking about equality of people and not quotas of territorial powers. Because beyond one another, that's what we're talking about when we talk about the funding system of our autonomous communities. In this year and a half it has also not been possible to know whether you are clear that public services are paid for by the Spanish and that the way to improve them is growth, it is the generation of employment, as we have done in recent years since the People's Party. You know that in the last two years 2017 and 2018 we have brought almost 10 billion euros more to the financing of our territorial entities, because it has been impossible for us to know whether you share that or whether, on the contrary, your proposal, and in particular your proposal, Mrs Montero, is to subject the Spaniards to the same fiscal hell, with widespread tax increases, to which you have subjected at your stage of adviser to Andalusians. We don't know. We know and sense that you bring under your arm a new fiscal hell for everyone. Madam Minister, it can be a difficult debate, no one denies it, or can be conditioned by the legitimate interest of all to do the best for their fellow citizens and for the government of their fellow citizens anywhere in Spain. But what the Government of the nation cannot do is to abdicate from the debate, what you cannot do is to abdicate from negotiating, agreeing, compromise and being able to bring about that reform of the system. They can't, Mrs. Montero, they can't. They cannot address the Spaniards and transfer them that lack courage to better meet their needs in education, health, social services or dependency, either by electoral calculations or because the strategism of censorship was simply to go without doing anything until 2020. Mrs Montero, it is a bad idea to abdicate the continued multilateral negotiation of the updating of the funding system and replace it with political prices to be paid for one or the patient waiting for the next legislature for another. It's a bad idea to go back to 2009 and agree the financing system with one another, as they did with the Republican Left of Catalonia, and exclude the other. It is such a bad idea that you already know that the 2009 financing system not only voted against the People's Party, but everyone says it is an unfair financing system. It's a bad idea, anyway, as it was in 2009 to take shortcuts, Mrs. Montero, and to think that by inflating the deliveries advances enough for everyone to shut up. That is lethal to the financing of our autonomous communities and you know it. You know that, in fact, we still suffer that mistake. You have the report of the experts on autonomous financing, identifying various issues that need to be addressed, you have the work carried out within the technical committee of evaluation with the contributions of the various autonomous governments and, more importantly, Mrs Montero, you have a recovered country, an economy that has been in intense growth for four years, in intense employment generation, and this is positive because it allows us to provide more public resources to better finance public policies, and this is thanks to the intense effort made by the Spaniards and the policies of the People's Party. [[applause]] And having all of this, it is not acceptable that by tacticalism or by mortgages they give up finalizing the update of the financing system. Because this is also the question, Mrs Montero, of the suspicions about the mortgages that your Government has contracted with the populists and separatists, suspicions that have even revealed territorial leaders of your own party. And since this is also the question, Mrs Montero, I ask you directly: do you commit today, here, now, not to making bilateral concessions to confluences and separatists that involve a treatment of discrimination between Spanish people? You should commit yourself here this afternoon to negotiating the financing system from the principle of equality of the Spaniards, without components and without discriminatory treatment for some parts of our country. We were announced, ladies and gentlemen, this time after censorship as the time of politics. We were told: let's do politics. However, policy-making is not to postpone the solution of problems, as they do with this matter of the financing system; policy-making is not to pay political prices to one another by preting others, and policy-making is not to disguise oneself as one thing and its opposite, depending on the conveniences of the moment. If that were to do politics, Mrs Montero, it would be as set up as stretching exercises on the outer walls of La Moncloa. [[Laughs and applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Mrs Montero, to do politics is to attend to everyone, to dialogue with everyone, to negotiate and to engage with everyone without exclusions; to do politics is to know that in the effective management of public affairs the general interests of individuals and the convictions of appearances prevail. It is therefore a matter of prioritizing the general interest and prioritizing convictions by sharing them with everyone in order to provide viable and effective solutions to the problems of the Spaniards. That is the way of doing politics of the party in which the vast majority of Spaniards trust, that is the way of doing politics of the People's Parliamentary Group and that is also today with you our commitment. That you have the lucidity to accept it by obviating sectarianisms, depends on you. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u281	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, Mr Marí, I wanted to thank you for the tone of your speech. I think we are faced with a debate that is tremendously serious for citizens - no more or less than we are talking about the welfare state's support - but I have to tell you that I am curious about your approach because I have not noticed any point of self-criticism in the management that has been made of this subject during all these previous years. If everything was so flat to reach a consensus on the new model, probably the question that all the citizens and all the Members are asking is why you have not done so. [[Applauds]] It is not correct to understand that Mr Montoro or any of the members of the People's Party did not move their proposal on the funding model if they understood that the objective conditions were met in order to reach a consensus on the model. I understand that, for some reason, after so many years in which the system, if I may say so, had expired, there would be some reason for the Government of Spain to try to move that it did not touch the debate or that there was no adequate environment, as Mr Montoro said, to carry out a reform of the financing system. Now you pretend that in twenty days' time the Spanish Government will do all that you have left as an outstanding task. I understand that it is a high demand on a government that has created expectations, but I believe that the President has tried to be extraordinarily realistic and has raised what he believes can lead to comprehensive reform and what he believes can be improvements in the model of autonomous financing. You will see, Mr Marí, the model of autonomous financing had expired, if we can speak in terms of expiry, in 2013. At least the organic law mandated that, after five years of the model's operation, it should be reviewed, logically, because the dynamism that the financing of public services has to entail cannot be stagnated, it has to be constantly dynamic in order to update those issues that the model did not initially collect or that did not work. You have commented that the process of revising the model was launched on the occasion of the Conference of Presidents on 17 January, and I regret to disagree. The funding model was not launched at the time. At that time, the president of the government, Mr Rajoy, committed to the autonomous presidents that a reform of the model would take place during 2017. There was no process of revising the model, there was a commitment by Mr Rajoy to the funding model. I have to say, unfortunately, that Mr Rajoy never met that priority or that commitment, and I have to say, moreover, that the autonomous presidents, many of whom govern in autonomous communities supported by the Socialist Party, gave Mr Rajoy their hand because they understood that this was indeed a state debate in which mainly the two major political parties that are present in this House had the obligation and the need to reach an agreement. Well, for more than 540 days the only thing that was established were meetings of expert committees that were already quite a few months ago, more than a year ago, sent the consensus document, by the way, document - I don't know if you have had the opportunity to read it - which brings very interesting parts but which also reflects particular votes in each of the subjects that do not allow a synthesis to be made only by the document, but that requires political work, as it is logical and normal, which allows to articulate a proposal in which I never, Mr Marí, have to tell you, I have seen that the Government of Spain wanted to exercise leadership. We have not had a single proposal, not a single document from the People's Party or the Government of Spain, nor do I know whether the People's Party internally has a document or proposal that, gathering the opinion of the experts, would make it possible to move forward on some matter. I would like to thank the experts for their first work, a document that was then submitted to a second group of experts, as you well know, with great despair on the part of the experts; some of them left the working groups because they understood that this debate was a hindrance: there was no progress and there was no methodology that would allow us to agree on some of the parties - now I will try to tell you - which from my point of view must lead to the revision of the model. That is why we have practically left from a zero political work; politically there have been neither meetings between the political groups nor meetings with the presidents to know their preferences. The only thing we know is the work of the autonomous parliaments - some are very advanced - which allow us to bring together positions and which have even had the consensus of many political forces present here today on what the position of a certain autonomous community should be in this debate. That is why, Mr Marí, the first thing I want to say to you is that we are going to work actively on the construction of this new model, and we are going to do it with a model, as you were moving - I am sure we agree on this - which has to ensure fairness for all the citizens of the country, it has to be sustainable over time and it also has to enable the revitalization of public services, which have suffered a serious deterioration as a result of the crisis, so that citizens do not have differences in access to health, education or dependence, where they live in Spain. Mr Marí, you have asked me for that commitment and of course you have it, you have it from the President's own mouth. Of course no discriminatory concessions will be made to any territory, you have no doubt. Most of the Members who are present in this House come from the constituency where they have elected us and I am convinced that they all legitimately hope that in the environment where they usually work in Parliament the new model can provide guarantees for the provision of public services and, on the other hand, allow us equality among all the citizens of Spain, trying to ensure that there is no part of the model that consolidates certain starting situations that may have been unequal in relation to another territory. That is why, Mr Marí, I am not a person to be convinced of the need to reform the funding model; indeed, in the Government's own DNA the configuration of the state of autonomy is a nuclear part of our concept of state, and we probably have to turn to a new funding model that has some characteristics that we would like its political group to share. From our point of view, the model has to respond to that configuration of the State of autonomy, in which I believe deeply; moreover, I believe that it is not only necessary to conceive them as mere service providers, because from some political force one has this temptation, but they are a fundamental, I insist, part of the configuration of the State in constitutional recognition and in the respective statutes of autonomy. It must, of course, ensure equity and acquit such provision of basic public services with homogeneous funding of competences. In short, we need to design a model that will lead to autonomy, which will allow them to make policy only in a way in which we can have a solid and robust welfare state. However, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that no parliamentary group escapes the fact that this is a long, ambitious and complex process and, in fact, I have reproached the previous Government for not having put sufficient steps at least to advance the discussion of the model. I do not think we can even believe that we are at an embryonic point in the gestation of the model because, I insist, the previous government did not put any political proposals on the table. I do not know what the People's Party thinks about what it considers a fair model for this country. You have been ruling all this time and have not led this debate. If you go to the hemerotheques you can understand it, because Mr Montoro and even Mr Rajoy said clearly that in the face of the Catalan challenge they believed that it was not the opportune time to design a reform of the funding model. I do not know if you have changed your mind on this, but given the urgency of reforming the model now that the Government has changed, I would like to know whether that is indeed your opinion. I have listened to you carefully and I believe that there are meeting points in some of the elements that you have mentioned as features of that model. In the time left for me in this first intervention, I intend at least to bring to your mind the issues that seem to me to be methodologically fundamental to making progress possible. The complete renewal of the model requires, first of all, an approach to assessing the real spending needs of key public services, which the previous Government has not wanted to address. When we talk about health, education or dependence, we need to know what model of the welfare state we are shaping and, therefore, what kind of resources are needed for it to be carried out efficiently. Secondly, we have to quantify the financial insufficiency of the autonomous communities. It is logical that even those that are best financed should be insufficient, because they probably cannot even cover the expenditure of efficient basic public services even though a tremendous effort has been made. An analysis of homogenous competences and also taxation by each administration must be carried out. We need to have a fiscal co-responsibility inherent in the model that does not penalize those communities that may have a lower level of income. We need fiscal harmonization in certain taxes that are being disposed of, a dynamic sustainability of the model and also a sharing of revenue between the different levels of the administrations, including the sharing of the objective of fiscal consolidation, which, as you are well aware, has been the subject of permanent controversy on the part of the autonomous communities. I would say to you that a final point that I believe should be the model is a profound reform of the functioning of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, because at the moment its functioning dynamics do not really allow it to have the capacity to hear clearly the approach of the different communities and the different territories. Mr Marí, I hope that we can follow that road map and each of those sections, making a sensible approach that will give credibility and satisfaction to most Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u282	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u283	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Montero, some parts of your speech well explain the Socialist Party's doubts about the funding system and I understand that you are in particular doubt, because a week ago you were defending one thing and now it is up to you to defend another. He has made a chronological account of the vicissitudes in the 2009 funding system and what had to be done in our country when the People's Party came to the Government in 2011. In making the chronological account one very important thing has been omitted: the first thing that had to be done in this country in 2011 was to save the territorial administrations from bankruptcy. The wrong policies of the Socialist Party had aggravated the crisis and we had our autonomous communities and our municipalities virtually bankrupt. The total consolidated revenue of all public administrations in 2007 was 442 billion and in 2011 was 387 billion, with a consolidated revenue and revenue gap of 60 billion, Mrs Montero. In 2014, after five years, it was up to you to analyze the evolution of the system - this you certainly understand, Mrs Montero - to analyze and evaluate, so there was a technical evaluation committee. When it came to assessing and drawing consequences for some aspects of the system, the consolidated resources of the public administrations were 403 billion euros, that is, 40 billion less; we had recovered, but it was 40 billion less than in 2007. When were we able to start updating the funding system? In 2017, when the total consolidated resources of public administrations were 441 billion, that is, the same as we had in the pre-crisis phase. For the art of birlibirloque? No, Mrs Montero, because here was the People's Party doing the right policies to make more resources available to our public administrations. [[Applauds]] Therefore, that is the chronological evolution and that is what justifies it, first we had to save from bankruptcy. To put it another way, the Spanish Government had to assume its responsibility and coordinate the territorial administrations, which was not what happened in 2011. In 2011 I was in the Balearic Government, in the Treasury Board, and one called the Government of Spain and didn't pick up the phone. The first thing that had to be done was for the Spanish Government to assume its responsibility and coordinate the territorial administrations to save a very difficult situation; and the second thing that had to be done was to generate growth and generate employment in order to recover - as has been shown by the data given to it - the total revenues of the public administrations. You have stated on some occasion that this is resolved with the Government of Spain putting at least EUR 16 billion, and you have once pulled more up and gone to 24,000. [[Applauds]] With the king's gunpowder, Your Honor, we can't go on. [[The lady]] Second question. As we have said, we know the complexity of updating the funding system, but what has made everyone stunned is that Mr Sánchez comes and abdicates his responsibility to continue negotiating, to continue agreeing, to compromise and to beat ahead of the next parliamentary term. Mrs. Montero, if there were spokespersons for your party who came here and demanded that in thirty days it could be done! All we have to do is do politics. Ah, for this is what Mr Sánchez has abdicated from doing politics for two years, because he is going to dedicate himself - if I may, with respect - to the pictures of the hands and the stretching. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mrs. Montero, that's the challenge. I have already told you in the first intervention that you will find us to help, to share convictions and to generate, because it would be logical that between the two national parties - if you still consider yourself a national party - we could lead this negotiation, it would be logical. For all that, you have here the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u284	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u285	Thank you, President. Mr Marí, I think that when you came up to the rostrum you made an idyllic account for yourself - which I understand - of what was the management of the previous government and I wanted to understand that you had to do a sanitation job beforehand, as if everything had remained like a patena, and that then you were going to put yourselves without a solution of continuity to the reforms of the funding model. That is what I have understood, what you seem to have said in this rostrum; that is, that Mr Sánchez's illegitimate government, in your view, has upset the plans of the People's Party, which had a political proposal to put on the table. Put it, Mr Marí, because we do not know the political proposal of the People's Party. [[Protests. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u286	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u287	We don't know her. I have to tell you - and I am not a suspect of not having worked in autonomous financing - that I do not know the proposal of the People's Party. If you have it, I will love to know it and I will love to see what points of coincidence you can have with other proposals that have come from regional parliaments. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that you have been entirely fair or fair, because you have come a little less than to say that the clean-up of public accounts has been done thanks to the management of Mr Rajoy - it is not that you have said that, but that is what has been understood -. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u288	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u289	I'm going to give you some data that I think might be of interest. The Government of Spain and the Central Administration have never met the stability objectives in Mr Rajoy's period of government, and when the Kingdom of Spain has fulfilled the commitments that have been established in Brussels it has been thanks to the local corporations and the autonomous communities, Mr Marí, despite the underfunding that these territorial administrations had. I am not the one who has put figures on the lack of resources. There is a range of between 16 000 and, as some experts say, more than EUR 24 billion. I have never heard the People's Party talk about how much insufficiency amounts to for the autonomous communities. Do you have any idea how much you think it would have to be put into the model in order to establish that distribution? Do you know why we don't know? Because they have eluded the reform of the autonomous financing model, and it is not for the reasons you say, that time has been cast on them, but because Mr Montoro - and you pull it from the hemerotec - has said on successive occasions that the current political climate for the reform of the financing system is regular. Those are Mr. Montoro's words. In 2018, in the Finance Committee of this Congress, Mr Montoro said that the reform of funding has not been undertaken with any delay because, in fact, there is no legal mandate. That has been the position of the Government, not to address something it understood not to be a priority within that road map. It has therefore not made any political movement to try to reach consensus on a proposal. On that point, Mr Marí, you are talking about the continuation of the negotiations. I would ask you: Have these negotiations begun by the People's Party? [[Several Members: Yes!]] Have they been in the dark and bilaterally? Because we autonomous communities do not know about these negotiations. We have no idea what you're talking about. [[Applauds]] When you talk about suspicions or doubts about how Mr Sánchez is going to address the issues of the needs of autonomous communities - they take the whole session today saying that it is going to be done with darkness, lack of transparency or bilaterality - I wonder whether the People's Party had perhaps started a sort of negotiation with some autonomous communities, to which Andalusia had certainly not been called, and therefore we have no transparency in any negotiations that the previous government has made. But I, Mr Marí, want to keep the best of your speech. I want to keep your offer. You have said that, on this occasion, now that you are in the opposition, you are serious and want to help build a reform of the funding model. My commitment will be to work tirelessly to try to reach that consensus. I am clear that the reform of the model will necessarily have to go through an agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, but, before that, Mr Marí, they will have to talk about government and autonomous communities, because that debate is necessary. It is a debate that has to take place in this country and I am convinced, when I was an adviser to an autonomous community and now, that if there is a good agreement between the State and the autonomous communities the political forces present in the Congress of Deputies will strengthen it and will reaffirm it. Therefore, let us all navigate so that this consensus can be made possible and let fundamental public services have priority in this Parliament, which is a priority for all political forces. Let us begin to sew wounds, not to establish criteria of differences between territories, because before health, education or dependence all citizens are equal, let us live where we live. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-27-CD180627.u290	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was four and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
