ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, a question to the President of the Government of Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, does your Government intend to take any steps to curb the alarming increase in labour poverty in this country?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. The worst form of labour poverty is that of those who do not have a job, and that is why job creation has been our top priority since we came to the Government. In fact, today the situation has changed very clearly as a result of the new economic policy, structural reforms and sound public accounts. As you know, 500 000 jobs are being created a year; we are already working the 19 million people; the goal is to reach 20 million by the end of 2019, and although obviously there is still way to go, as I have just pointed out, the fact is that in recent years we have substantially improved in the worst form of labour poverty, which is not having a job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u6	Mr Rajoy, last week you already told us that you were coming here with clumsiness in the morning because it seemed to you that it was a few hours too early to answer the questions and submit to your duty of control here, but at these hours, while you are here, there are many people who are working in frankly precarious conditions. [[Rumors]] Because it's not about having a job, it's about having a decent job, a job that allows people to meet their basic needs: food, being able to pay the rent at the end of the month... Anyway, those little things that you don't seem to recognize. I will give you some data, those data that are not made-up like those that are passed on to you by your advisors: 15% of the employees in this country are at risk of poverty and are at risk of poverty because the wages with which they arrive at the end of the month do not give them for these basic needs. And that increases when they're women. Two thirds of part-time work in this country is done by women, and I no longer tell them if it is young people. If it is the young people, according to the ILO - yes, the ILO, which will sound like you -, 20% of the Spanish young people who have a job are at risk, they surround labour poverty. I will tell you, even if you do not like it, that 1.5 million people in this country charge less than the minimum wage, of 710 euros. I will also tell you that almost 3 million workers do not reach 1000 euros. Do you believe that this can meet the basic needs? No, no, And article 35 of the Constitution is not complied with. That, yes, is the result of their labor reform, that labor reform which has done has been to devalue wages, to generate greater inequality, to dismantle collective bargaining. That's right, you guys, at the same time, were doing a tax amnesty. I ask you to wake up at these hours of the morning wake up, yes, wake up, not just read what you have written and be sensitive to the people who work in this country and cannot reach the end of the month. They are many compatriots of yours and mine, and therefore our obligation is for you, once and for all, to put an end to this situation and to put an end to this labour reform. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u7	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u8	Mrs Robles, quite frankly, I do not know whether you oppose my humble person or the previous President of the Government. [[Laughter and applause]] I say this because last week you asked me about the pay gap when at the time the gap was much higher and, as I reminded you, the destruction of women's employment had been triggered in 1,400,000 jobs. Today you ask me about job poverty and I will have to answer you as last week, with data. The employment situation today is objectively - I no longer make judgments of value - much better than when you ruled. Not only is more employment created, but it is also more stable. We have recovered the level of indefinite employment before the crisis, 48 consecutive months of increases in indefinite recruitment, increased the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite ones, the recovered employment is mostly full-time and the latest Eurostat data of 8 February, very few days ago, say that Spain is the European country leading the job creation and that our country is responsible for reducing 73% of poverty in the euro area. That's what Eurostat says. Mr President, we have taken important decisions in areas affecting the quality of employment: the rise in the minimum wage, the reform of the vocational training system for employment, the individual right to training, maternity leave, its extension or the reduction of childcare hours. We are therefore creating jobs, improving the quality of employment. Frankly, the results are much better than those you presented to whom you oppose today. I'll keep working and encourage you to sign up for what I do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT GOING TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION WITH THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT AND THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE TO STRENGTHENING THE IMAGEN OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE CORONE? [[File number 180/00518]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u9	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u10	Thank you very much, President. Mr Rajoy, Mr President, how exactly is the agreement between Defence and Education to reinforce the image of the Crown and the Armed Forces in the classroom going to improve this country's education? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Rufián, the agreement to which you refer is based on two perfectly democratic constitutional laws regulating defence and education. I have always thought that it is very positive that young people, in addition to learning about academic subjects, learn to respect the universal, social and democratic values embodied in our Constitution, values such as freedom, equality, tolerance, plurality and respect for the law, and also that they know and appreciate the work of the Armed Forces in defending our freedom. I frankly see nothing reprehensible either in those laws or in that agreement to which you refer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u14	We're going to have a memory, Mr. President. I read: To form deep Spanish and austere patriots, Spain resurrects gloriously because of the giant effort of its children. The ceremony to place the flag before starting classes and toss it at the end, while the national anthem is ringing, is mandatory for all schools. Do you know what it is? Do you know I just read it to you? They are extracts from the rules for the public and primary school of May 16, 1939, which some call the year of victory. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u16	The question - I understand that some of your colleagues have stood firm now - is: do you want this back eighty years later, Mr President? You want to get it back? [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u17	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u18	And the next thing I have to tell you is that at least you have the decency and the shame of not saying that in Catalonia you are indoctrinating; you have the decency and the shame of not saying that in Catalonia you are indoctrinating, because we just want a country, Catalonia, where children know first what the solidarity and fraternity that the Legion and the goat is; we want a country where children know first who Marcos Ana is that Letizia Ortiz; we just want to recover the country that some of you stole from us eighty years ago. [[Rumors]] And now, we're going to go see our partner Mireia Boya before she gets put in jail. A lot of strength, Mireia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián, with all due respect, I'm more up-to-date than you are, so I'm not going to refer to what happened 80 years ago. [[Laughter and applause]] I'm going to tell you about constitutional Spain where I've lived for a few years and so are you. 'The Ministry of Defence shall promote the development of the defence culture with the aim of ensuring that Spanish society knows, values and identifies itself with its history and with the solidarity and effective effort through which the Armed Forces safeguard national interests'. I have read to you article 31 of Law 5/2005 on National Defence - year 2005 -, approved by the Socialist Party with the vote in favour of the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Laughter and applause]] In addition, the Education Act of 2006, which incorporated the subject Education for Citizenship, included, among other matters to be studied in schools, the concept of defence or knowledge of the international peace missions of our Armed Forces, approved by the Government of the Socialist Party with the support of the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Laughter and applause]] So, Mr. Rufián, let me tell you that I don't understand anything at all. He feels that the Spanish Armed Forces are bothering him but, on the other hand, he supports laws such as those of 2005 and 2006. You can tell me you weren't, but Mr. Tardà, who is your natural leader, was at that time. [[Laughter]] I want to tell you that, as a Spanishman, I am proud of the work that the Spanish Armed Forces are doing to defend our rights and freedoms and that, therefore, I will continue to defend this position, which is defended by the vast majority of people in the vast majority of Western democracies that are those of our environment. And you're still referring to the tango that, on the other hand, wasn't bad at all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u21	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, which FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT OPINION DOES THE DECLARATIONS OF THE OPERATIONAL CHIEF OF UCO, MANUEL SÁNCHEZ CORBÍ, THE PAST 3 FEBRUARY IN THE VANGUARDIA, IN WHICH THE PNV WAS SITUATED IN THE BAND OF THE 'BAD' IN THE FIGHT AGAINST THE JOINT STATE TO 'ETARRAS, BATASUNOS AND THE VASCA Iglesia'? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00535]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u22	Question, also addressed to the President, by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, of the Basque Parliamentary Group Forward, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u23	Good morning. What opinion do you deserve from the UCO's operational chief, Sánchez Corbí, on February 3rd in La Vanguardia, in which he placed the PNV on the side of the bad in the fight against ETA along with Etraras, Batasunos and the Basque Church?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. You ask me about the statements made by a gentleman in an interview with a newspaper. I'm informed of the following. These statements were not made in connection with his current professional activity; they were made in the context of the promotion of a book; they were then rectified by the journalist himself. I understand that you may feel offended by the statements if they occurred, but once rectified by the journalist himself we should all take the incident for granted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u26	Sir were, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u27	I have more, Mr. President. El Mundo, December 20, 2017: 'The Basque Government and the PNV will want to charge for the dissolution of ETA'. In the presentation of his book, recently: 'EL PNV did not want the defeat of ETA. The PNV has often gone by ETA's hand. So, that faith of error I don't believe. This says about a party that this very weekend has suffered repainted in seven of its baptisms and that was the first party to convene a unilateral demonstration against the violence of ETA in 1978, in October, and I remember it perfectly. The Truth, October 11th. Mr. Corbí literally says, 'Dirty war didn't matter that much.' This is said by a person who was sentenced by Spanish courts twice - not once, twice - for torture. Four years in prison and six years in disqualification, which would mean the expulsion of the body. What did President Aznar do? To pardon him immediately, the next day. And where does he give it back? At the same site he occupied to do the same tasks he performed; an abuser at the same site he occupied before. There does not seem to be any desire to limit pardons with regard to torture. Yesterday, already, the ninth conviction for ill-treatment of Europe. This guy with hero inflames and anxieties of protagonism - of which many lordships of different benches know their disguises and gags, but who will say nothing because they fear him - has no impeccable trajectory. He is responsible for something that, for example, he does not say in his book. After Operation Diru Gutxi, in which the Ertzaintza manages to dismantle the ETA extortion network with support from the French Police, the first thing he does is to ensure that the French Police breaks all contact with the Ertzaintza and does not pass information on to him, and he does the same with the Spanish Police. Could an attack possibly have been avoided? We will probably never know, even if there are suspicions in some cases, but that is not the way to behave as a police officer. Mr President, a person convicted of torture cannot be head of the UCO, a person with this desire for parochial protagonism should not be head of the UCO, a person with public responsibilities could not accuse political parties with a democratic profile of connivance with violence. They will not dare to remove it for what they will say, but it is exactly, Mr President, what I think they should do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u29	Mr. Esteban, I told you in my first reply that I understand that you could be offended, but I also told you in my first reply that the journalist who did the interview said that no one had said that so you could be offended. Therefore, if you have not said so, I see no reason why you may be offended. But speaking frankly, I'd like to ask you one thing: listen, let's go to the big one. ETA has been defeated by the law, by the rule of law and by the vast majority of Basque and Spanish society, even if there are people who believe that she alone defeated her. And things have changed in the Basque Country and changed for the better; everyone says it and we all know it. That is why I think it is appropriate today that we rise up and the first ones we have an obligation to rise up are you and me and the people who have political responsibilities, that is, those politicians to whom some refer with the air of superiority. But be absolutely certain, Mr. Esteban, that it will be much more useful to consolidate the better times that are being lived in the Basque Country than you and I will enter into things that are in the end proper to what you are thinking they are. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u30	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT OPINION DOES THE GOVERNMENT DEMOCRACY DEVELOPED BY THE PNV DEMOCRACY DEVELOPED BY THE NEW PROPOSED REFERENCE FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE VASCO COUNTRY? [[File number 180/00523]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u31	Question is now addressed to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u32	Madam Vice-President, the PNV is preparing an Ibarretxe II plan which includes a referendum on self-determination, a recognition of a kind of confederal relationship with Spain, therefore, with two sovereigntys on an equal footing and the recognition, even, of the connection with a French Basque country that will be very grateful to the neighbouring country. You have a close relationship with PNV, a very beneficial relationship for PNV. [[Laughter]] Nationalism, Madam Vice-President, is Europe's greatest threat. I ask you not to be nostalgic and, of course, we are going to oppose this new challenge to Spanish sovereignty and the equality of all Spaniards before the law. Are you going to join Citizens?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u33	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Girauta, the position of the Government coincides exactly with that which the People's Party in the Basque Parliament has expressed these days on a matter that is currently being discussed in the Basque Parliament. There it is clearly stated and claimed by the Basque people, who have been defending this issue for many years, which expressly and strongly rejects the claim to incorporate in a possible statutory reform the right of self-determination, because it is a figure without possible fit in our legal system, because it is an element of political and social confrontation between the Basques, as well as a generator of economic uncertainties for Euskadi. [[Applauds]] I understand that you cannot support Mr Alfonso Alonso and Mr Aranegui in the Basque Parliament because you have no representation after the 2016 elections, but I understand - and I am making him part of your speech - that you will share the position that this party is defending with great flexibility in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u35	Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u36	Perhaps his close relationship with the PNV has made him forget that the house of national sovereignty is this, not the Basque Parliament. [[Several Members: Very Good!-Applause]] Look, Madam Vice President, you can't build anything with the nationalists. It is not our opinion, it is the opinion of all those who are involved in the construction of Europe, who are involved in the integration of Europe and in the future in which we forget all these reminiscences of the past, all these waste of the past that only awaken old ghosts. You have given the PNV an unfair and insolidary coupon in exchange for supporting the General Budgets of the State that has blocked the same PNV because it turns out that it does not want to unlock them until the implementation of the 155 constitutional measure in Catalonia is over. This is the support that the PNV gives to the stability of this country and so you pay it, with the coupon, that allows the PNV to lower the company tax to make dumping to companies outside the Basque Country; that allows them to something that the European Union is investigating: the cake that you have had with the PNV to favor seven hundred Basque companies to pay a cheaper electricity tariff than the one paid by the rest of the Spanish companies. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo makes gestures of disapproval]] You are a party that shows a huge liberality with the nationalists, but the party you are paying does not pay you, we pay all the Spaniards, Madam Vice President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u37	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Girauta, before you existed in this house many Members have made a ferret defense of national sovereignty. Plan Ibarretxe I was rejected in this House by members of the Socialist Party and the People's Party in past legislatures. In this House we have refused a referendum on self-determination in this legislature and in some previous ones and in this House we have denied dialogue outside the law. Therefore, Mr Girauta, the defence of the unity of Spain becomes precisely by uniting us, regardless of the political conjunctures that we have at every moment, and Spain, at least for our party, is much more than Citizens or the People's Party. Mr. Girauta, you're talking about concessions to the PNV and you're talking about the concert. What you have told me tells Mr Nicolas de Miguel, who I believe is from his party, who says that his position there is a ballast, but also considers that anything that is spoken with the Basque Nationalist Party is a concession. Therefore, please explain to this House two questions: why is the Citizens' Security Act going to be lowered? Because you have supported an initiative by the Basque Nationalist Party to soften it. [[Several Members: Very well!]] Secondly, why is the law of reviewable permanent imprisonment going to be repealed or discussed? Because you have abstained from a proposal by the Basque Nationalist Party about prison... [[Mr Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures.-Several Members: Yes!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u39	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO PRENDES, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHY DON'T YOUR GOVERNMENT ENJOY THE DEPOLITIZATION OF JUSTICE? [[File number 180/00522]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u40	Question to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Ignacio Prendes Prendes, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u41	Thank you, Madam President. To reform the election of members of the General Council of the Judiciary so that the twelve judicial sources are directly elected by the judges and magistrates. I am sure it sounds to you, Minister, it is in text compromise 102 that your government signed with Citizens to launch the legislature. The question is therefore bound to be: why does your Government not push for the depoliticization of justice?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u42	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u43	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I believe that at the moment, in Spain, there is an independent justice and an absolutely depoliticised justice. It would therefore be highly desirable for those of us who believe in the Constitution and in our institutions to guide the debate in the right way. Not to generate uncertainty, not to make it seem like things have to be done by changing the General Council of the Judiciary to strengthen independence. Independence exists and resides in each of the 5500 judges who form the judicial career. Can we change the voice choice system? We've committed him to you. We look forward to hearing your proposal to move this concrete step forward. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u44	Mr. Prendes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u45	First of all, Minister, I have told you repeatedly and I will repeat it again: we do not doubt in any case the efforts of the 5500 judges and magistrates who do their work in this country. But we are talking about something else: we are talking about the independence of a state power, the independence of the judiciary and its governing body. A few days ago we abandoned the subcommission that addressed the national pact for justice in the light of the clear finding that his old dance continued with his partner in this matter of the control of the judiciary, the Socialist Party, and that the two refused to lose political control over that organ that has so much competence and a key role, among other things, in appointments in the judicial career. In short, they refused the depoliticization of justice. In Citizens we are convinced that the challenge of the regeneration and modernization of Spain demands the depoliticization of justice. That's one of your keys. But it's not that we say it, it's that it's a cry in the judicial career. There you have the Council's own surveys. The citizens say this: according to the Eurobarometer of the European Commission, Spain is the third country in the European Union where citizens have less confidence in judicial independence: only Slovakia and Bulgaria have the worst results. And the Greek, the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe, has just told us this in its last round of evaluation, has just asked us to literally change the system of election of members of the Council and to stop politicians interfering in judicial appointments. Literally. His Government's actions were generally unsatisfactory for the Council of Europe. I have to tell you that for us, in this area, too. And not only that, other initiatives have also been adopted in this House in this attempt to strengthen and restore the credibility of the institutions and to strengthen independence. On 8 April we adopted in this House an initiative to strengthen the independence of the Constitutional Court that sleeps the dream of the righteous; they have done nothing. On the prosecution, all the associations, in their appearances in this House, have asked for the guarantee of their independence, which they now do not have, to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u46	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u47	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I do not know if all the members of this House remember that in February last year we constituted a subcommittee within the Committee on Justice that has been working for a year and where institutions, associations, trade unions have appeared... Ninety-eight measures were agreed upon in that subcommittee and you have decided to withdraw from it on one particular issue; everything else does not seem to worry you. In any case, Your Honor, I insist: we are looking forward to hearing what the Citizens' Group's proposal is on this issue. We do not know whether the proposal is, for example, the one you advocated when you were in UPyD, the proposal made by Mr Rivera to abolish the General Council of the Judiciary; whether the proposal is to approve it with other contents or reform the Constitution. The reform of an organic law, as your honor very well knows, requires an absolute majority of this House. We will find those majorities because if it doesn't seem to me that everything will remain in an effort that absolutely leads us to melancholy. Don't let it happen to us as yesterday with the Civil Registry, that in the end we had talked to it doesn't support it and they leave us at the last minute and, therefore, I don't know what my partners are. You tell me that my partners are the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party tells me that you are my partners. In the end, there are partners we have, with whom we're not going anywhere! [[Applauds]] In any case, Your Honor, I believe we can move forward if we know where you want to go, what you want: to eliminate the Council, reduce it or choose it directly by the judges. I believe that democratic regeneration also has to do with presenting the clear accounts of political parties. There's a lot to do in democratic regeneration, there's a lot to do. [[Applauds]] - THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT ACTIVITIES IS THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT TO AFFECT THE ABUSIVE INCOME OF CONCERTS? [[File number 180/00527]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u48	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Emilio del Río Sanz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On January 26th at ten o'clock in the morning, tickets for the concert in September U2 went on sale on the Internet. It had not been five minutes and all the entrances had been exhausted. In parallel, immediately, on other web pages were those same entries at a price not going to say much higher but at an abusive, shameful, scandalous price. An entry of about 60 or 70 euros was for sale for 600, 700 or up to 800 euros, and it is not that this is the first time, it is a usual practice. It was recently discussed that the same thing happened with a concert by Joaquín Sabina. The People's Party understands that this is a fraud. First, this harms citizens, consumers, because it is limiting access to those who do not have economic opportunities to buy tickets that even at the initial price can prove expensive to them. Secondly, it is causing harm to artists, because it goes against their creativity. The People's Party believes that it is also against the initiative of entrepreneurs, the promoters who implement such cultural initiatives. This online sales of tickets is an abusive, fraudulent practice and must be stopped. The People's Party defends the rights of authors, the rights of entrepreneurs and, of course, the rights of consumers. We know that the government also shares this concern and, therefore, I ask the minister what actions are being taken to prevent this abusive online resale of cultural and musical performances. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u50	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Your Honor, you have explained very well what happened last year and also this year, and it is that sometimes the advances in digital technology, which have great consequences and very positive, cause regulatory gaps, in addition to this issue, which is the basic essential competence of the Autonomous Communities. Already last year in the two concerts that you mentioned, that of Alejandro Sanz and that of Joaquín Sabina, we detected this phenomenon, and what we did was consult the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice told us that clarification was needed in basic legislation in the field of intellectual property and also in the field of positive performances. It was also necessary to amend the general regulations on spectacle police, which provide for physical resale, but not online resale. That is why what we did at the time was to convene the Sectoral Conference of Culture on 10 July, where all the autonomous communities were. Immediately thereafter, on 15 September, a study commission was set up. On 7 October we launched a public consultation via the web, and we received 31 direct contributions that will be referred to the next sectoral conference. Therefore, good cooperation and cooperation with the Autonomous Communities. On the second case to which you referred, that of the Irish U2 Group, I recently contacted the Minister of the Interior, whom I would like to thank for the diligence. Indeed, in four minutes all entries were sold out, but they could be purchased on other web pages at a very high price. What the Minister of the Interior has done has been to require a request for information from the promoters and sellers, Live Nation and Ticketmaster, and has carried out a timely investigation for an alleged scam for the purchase of tickets through the website viagogo.es. We are therefore acting legislatively and I hope that we will soon reach an agreement with the autonomous communities, which - I insist - are the competent ones, but the investigations of the Interior also go in the right direction. These actions have motivated some company like Google to have already established that for the online sale it will be necessary to incorporate the name of the person, which is a very effective way to avoid such practices; practices that are abusive, practices that go against the will of consumers, the will of people to attend concerts and that, in short, they cherish something that is the heritage of everyone, that is our culture, the soul of the nation. So, we'll keep fighting to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u52	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA OF THE ROMINGUERA SALAZAR SEA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHEN IS THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO APPROVE THE NEW LIVING PLAN? [[File number 180/00534]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u53	He is now asking the Minister for Development. Question by Mrs María del Mar Romingera Salazar, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u54	Minister, when will the government approve the new state housing plan?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Romingera. As you know, the government is putting in place the 2018-2021 Housing Plan with great effort, trying to reach the maximum consensus - I think this is important in a plan of these characteristics - which takes its time, but it is a well-used time. That is why we have met on several occasions with all the autonomous communities at the sectoral conference, with the municipalities, with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, with the professionals, with the sector and with some mayors recently, individually, who wanted to move their proposals; in short, we have met with everyone in a hearing procedure that has allowed us to incorporate more than 50% of the suggestions raised. Overtaken this step, we will raise the approval of the plan to the Council of Ministers and convene the sectoral conference - we will do so in the first half of March - and from there we will already conclude bilateral cooperation agreements with each autonomous community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romingera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u58	Minister, I am very pleased that my question has served to at least tell us something, to get him out of inopia and to start working, because you yourself promised in the Senate in November that the plan would be in effect on January 1, 2018 and, as you see, today we have nothing. He has had more than enough time to get to work, to agree on such aid and to regulate it in a new plan. What we do not know is why he has not done his job after a year of extension of the previous plan, an extension that has already expired - it expired on 11 December -. In this way, all we know is that for his Government housing is not a priority issue, because during this time, since 2011, they have reduced the housing budget by more than 60%, eliminated the basic income of emancipation for the youngest and abolished for more than 300,000 families the right to agreed loans that they had already granted in previous plans. So, all we know is that you have not done your job, and the best summary of all this neglect and laziness that affects the Government is that, as I say today, we do not even have a housing plan; what we do have is more than 108 000 homeless families, with scarce resources and precarious jobs and who fear that they will not be able to cope with the payment of their housing because they depend on subsidies for purchase and rent that, today, do not exist, even though you promised them that by 1 January they would be in force and could make use of them. You should know that with people you don't play games, Minister. That is why, from my group, we demand, on behalf of those hundreds of thousands of families who are victims of their disillusionment, that the royal decree governing the new state housing plan be approved as soon as possible and that, in any case, it produce effects and benefit families from January 1, 2018, because that is the least I could do to alleviate their harmful management. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u59	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u60	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I would like to remind you that the powers in the area of housing belong to the Autonomous Communities and that this year they will receive an additional 4 billion within the autonomous funding system. Some of these resources could well free up the budget to increase housing aid, which is why our housing plan is going to require 30 per cent co-financing from the autonomous communities. But do not worry, because the plan that we have in place introduces numerous measures, according to the Autonomous Communities, to speed up the implementation of these aids - that is what we agreed at the sectoral conference - and, of course, it will come into force the day after the adoption of the royal decree, but retroactively on 1 January, so there is no problem in the provision of these aids. In any case, it would be good for you to transfer to your colleagues in the Autonomous Communities the kindness you have said about the implementation of the housing plan from the Socialist Group. I would like to remind you that last year, for example, Andalusia left EUR 29 million unused, i.e. it only used 50% of the housing plan aid because of a management problem, when the rest of the communities were in a 97% degree of implementation; only 50%, with which many Andalusian families were left without these benefits, without that much-needed help for them. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent. The murmuring in the House prevents the speaker from speaking and prevents the others from hearing it correctly. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to remain silent, in addition to monitoring interventions which, as you know, are very brief. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Alexandra Fernández Gómez, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, we can in any way form the Minister of Foment: will you continue to see the transfer of the Atlantician Highway to Galicia when the demands of the Galician Parliament, the civil society and the economic sectors are unanimous? [[AP-9]] [[File number 180/00524]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u62	He also asked the Minister about Mr Alexandra Fernández Gómez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u63	Thank you, President. Minister, will you continue to veto the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u64	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u65	Your Honour, you know that the Government can give its assent to the handling of proposals for legislation, but you must have sufficient assurance that the measures to be implemented are budgetable, as reflected in the Constitution and as set out in the Rules of Procedure of this House. It will agree with me that the Constitution is necessary to comply with it, and this circumstance, without entering into any other kind of considerations, has not been given in the legislative proposals that have been presented to date, which meant a budget increase of more than EUR 4 billion each. We will review any proposed legislation in the Government with the utmost rigour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fernández, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u67	I would remind you, Minister, that this initiative was unanimously adopted in the Galician Parliament on two occasions, both of which were vetoed by your Government with false arguments, such as the ones you have just given. The first of these is an increase in budget appropriations. This is the new excuse of the People's Party to veto all initiatives that are not right for it. In fact, they use it so poorly that when Parliament raises the second initiative and withdraws any mention of the rescue, it only talks about transfer, you again justify the veto in economic terms, by the way, with inflated and false data. The second argument they make is re-centralizing. They say it's intransferable because it's in the public interest of the state. Well, just like the Catalan and Basque highways transferred. I ask you: Do you think we're less? In short, their arguments are not supported. That is why we brought an appeal of unconstitutionality to his veto and brought this bill back to the House. I ask you, are you going to veto that initiative again? Although it would not surprise us either, because the People's Party and Audasa have been the tandem of the exile in Galicia for years. In fact, Audasa is currently out of public control and the People's Party is dedicated to doing her dirty work and whitewashing her interests within the institution. I give you three data. It's the longest-term concessionary highway. When they were able to put an end to an inheritance we had of Francoism, you rehypothecated us until 2048. It is one of the most profitable motorways, with a 50% profit, and instead of demanding a reduction of that margin we get four tolls this year. She's the one with the worst management, with the most complaints, and what do you do? Look somewhere else. In short, what we need is very easy: to put the dealership in a waistband. That is why we ask for the transfer and the gratuity. And I remind you that when you boycott this initiative out of fear, because of the only fear of losing a vote, you are charging yourself with democratic principles, you are charging yourself with the principle of autonomy of the Galician Parliament with the complicity of Feijóo and reducing both Parliaments to a farce, and in passing you are trying to hide the shameful spectacle that the Galician Members of the People's Party would have to give in this House having to vote in favour of Audasa and against the Galician people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u68	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u69	Thank you, President. Your Honor, in favour of Audasa, as far as I know, nobody votes here. In any case, you can vote in favour of a road belonging to the State network remaining in the State, and you will also understand that this is perfectly defendable by the Government of Spain, but you do so using the Constitution, which you feel is wrong. He says false data has been used. For you see, it is not so, no false data have been used and you have the recourse to file in court or in the Constitutional, whatever you want. We have applied with absolute rigour the veto power that the Constitution gives us and we have done so without any discrimination to Galicia, on the contrary, with Galicia and with the Xunta we have set up a follow-up committee for the adoption of measures with a shared management of many of these measures. We have met on three occasions, the last one recently, on 23 January, and thanks to that commission and thanks to that work, for example, we have assumed from the State the expenses in which the Galician Junta was incurred for twelve years for the bonus of the sections A Coruña-A Barcala and O Morrazo-Vigo, and to you that seems wrong. Perhaps you would have preferred that the Xunta and the Galicians would have continued to pay those large amounts. We have also managed to set in motion the extension of the Rande bridge or the Santiago bypass. We are now working, thanks to that follow-up committee, on mechanisms to eliminate the toll on the route between Rande and Vigo. I met with the Mayor of Redondela myself recently. They are more than obvious signs of support and commitment to further improve Galicia's mobility conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u70	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHEN WILL THE REVOLUTION OF N-340 TO AP-7 ROADS BETWEEN PEÑISCOLA AND THE HOSPITALET OF THE CHILD AND BETWEEN THE HOSPITALET OF THE CHILD AND THE HOSPITALET AND VILAFRA OF THE PENEDES, AGREED AND NOT EXECUTED? [[File number 180/00521]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u71	He also asked the Minister about Mr Ferran Bel Accensi from the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u72	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. During the first months of last year, Councillor Rull and his councillor negotiated with you and your ministry the mandatory diversion of the trucks from the N-340 to the AP-7, with the corresponding bonuses in the stretch of Terres de L'Ebre and the Penedès. In the summer an agreement was reached, as well as improving internal traffic between these two areas. This agreement was announced in September and had to materialize on January 1, 2018. This, due to the application of article 155, has not been implemented. When will this agreement come into force, Minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u73	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u74	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Bel. As soon as all the administrative procedures are completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u75	Mr. Bel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u76	In September, the administrative procedures had to end on 1 January. No one denied it. Counselor Rull announced this and several journalists contacted his ministry and were confirmed the date. No excuses, Minister. You know the situation of these two stages in Catalonia. And I would like to remind you that this situation did not occur, but a situation of constant non-compliance by different governments of different colors in relation to investments that had to materialize in order to realize the two sections of the AP-7 that are now paralysed for many years. You can't wait any longer. I'm not going to play with the demagogy of accidents, but it's a reality. I will not play with the demagogy of the thousands and thousands of users who are collapsed in this N-340 day by day, Minister. In Catalonia we receive good announcements of big investments, of rains of millions by 2026, but in Catalonia what people want is essentially that the commitments are fulfilled, that the commitments are fulfilled in 2017 and 2018. If they announce investments for 2026, we're happy too, but do you know what's going on? That we have for many years, Minister, in which the state is constantly failing to comply. It is in breach of the Penedès, it is in breach of the Terres de L'Ebre and it is in breach throughout Catalonia, and the reason is the one you know perfectly well.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u77	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Bel. We are going to meet 100 percent of our commitment. The agreement is not simple, it is not signed overnight and has complex procedures. We have had to reach agreement first with the Generalitat, as you well know, and then with the mayors, who also incorporated some different proposals than the Generalitat had put forward. We have had to close an agreement all these months with the concessionaire, which has not been an easy matter, and we are dealing with the State Attorney and the various ministries with the corresponding reports. The report of the Council of State is likely to be needed as a preliminary step towards approval by the Council of Ministers. In addition, we have an extended budget. When we reached the agreement in August, of course, we did not have a budget line in 2017 for this measure, so we have to make a new budget change file, raising the ceilings to the amount necessary for the implementation of the measure. It's all been a while. The only agreement we have reached for the diversion of heavy vehicles has been with La Rioja, in the N-232, from 1 December. Thank God - in this we must be very careful - since the adoption of the measure there has been no accident with mortal victims, but it took us exactly ten months to reach the agreement and process absolutely everything. It is true that there has been an accident at the N-340, with fatal victims, and I very much regret it, but what I cannot accept is that we try to transfer responsibility for it to the Government of Spain or that we think it is a good compromise that the councillor agreed with the mayors without the approval of the ministry. No one in the ministry said this could be started on January 1. I have just received a letter from all the mayors of the region in which they assure me that this commitment and announcement was from the councillor, who without consulting anyone said that it could be made effective from January. We never said it was like this. However, we will continue to make important investments, some in the short term to improve road safety. Others, such as the doubling of the N-340 in some sections, are part of our agenda and we are running to implement the measure as soon as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u79	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF MADRID ELECTION AS THE HEAD OF THE MOST OPERATIONS CENTRE OF THE WORLD BY THE INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION? [[Here you go.]] [[File number 180/00526]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u80	He also asked Mr de Fomento of Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, political stability is not only a value in itself, because it generates trust, security and well-being in society, but it is also a key factor for businesses, institutions and citizens. Companies, organizations, want to settle down and develop in an environment of stability, security, growth and fertile ground for their activity. In recent times we have seen that the Davos Forum has recognized Spain as the most competitive tourist industry in the world. We are already the second international tourist destination. Spain has been designated as one of the most important centres of the European satellite navigation programme Galileo and today we know that Madrid has been chosen as the seat of the world's largest operating centre of the International Air Navigation Association, IATA, thanks to the enormous investment effort in port, airport, road and railway matters and, above all, to the increasing weight of our airports worldwide, which have grown in their traffic by 8% in the last year. Madrid, ladies and gentlemen, has been chosen among other cities, such as Beijing, Singapore and Montreal, for the high levels of efficiency, legal certainty and good relations with their institutions, making our region one of the most important in world air traffic. Let me read you the definition on which IATA bases its choice: The capital of Spain is a great international center of business, multicultural, open, dynamic and cosmopolitan, with a great ability to attract diverse and highly qualified talent, ideal conditions for the development of the competitiveness of world aviation. Congratulations, Minister, on this new objective endorsement of the work of the Government and its ministry. We ask for an assessment of this, since the People's Parliamentary Group considers it a great news for Spanish tourism, for trade, for business, for employment and for the well-being of citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u82	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u83	Undoubtedly, the choice of our country to locate the largest global operational centre of an important international organization is a very good news for all for two reasons: the first, because it will involve the creation of direct and indirect jobs and, the second, because it shows that our country, as you have said very well, is the best destination to host projects of this magnitude and of so much technological and business demand. The association is going to manage from its control centre in our country the operations of 280 airlines, which operate nothing more and nothing less than 83% of the world's air traffic and manage 50,000 travel agencies. Each year, from the centre in Madrid, nearly 300 million air tickets will be managed. In addition, with this decision, the centre will increase its workforce by the end of 2018 with 330 high-skilled employees, doubling the number of workers in two years. For this reason, I would like to thank IATA for its decision. I would also like to highlight the discreet but very effective work of the Government of Spain and to underline, as you have also done, our enormous potential as a country. Spain now has AENA, the first company in the world of airport management, through which airports have passed, in this year 2017, about 250 million passengers, 8.2% more than last year, 2016, surpassing the most optimistic forecasts that we could have. In addition, we have Enaire, who is today the world's third-largest air navigation manager. In 2017, as you also know, 82 million tourists visited us, which has made our country the second country in the world receiving international tourism, figures that I am convinced will be maintained and improved throughout 2018, considering, among other things, that from now on Spain becomes the hub of global air transport. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u84	Thank you very much. - THE DEPARTMENT OF MERITXELL BATET LAMANIA IN THE REPRESENTATION OF Adriana LASTRA FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT DO ON THE IMPACT OF WORK REFORM IN THE QUALITY OF WOMEN'S EMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/00530]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u85	Questions now to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Firstly, a question from Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u86	Thank you, President. Minister, your job reform is six years old and would not exceed a quality check. Let's talk about the women in this country. All indicators in the EPA are worse for women than for men, the temporality rate is the highest in the European Union, partial involuntary employment is 60%, when in Europe it is only 26%, and there is a growing wage gap, according to all reports; the last one, the report by the Finance Technicians of your Government, of the People's Party Government, tells us that women charge 29% less than men, which is 37% in the case of pensions. What steps will your ministry take, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Batet, labour reform has been a reform for women's employment and opportunities. I'll give you three data. More job. There are more women than ever working in our country, that is, we have recovered all the female employment that destroyed the crisis. Better job, Mrs. Batet. Today, in Spain, the women who have an indefinite contract are 5 500 000, as never before in our economic history. And the third fact, Your Honor, is that the wage gap is at historical minimums, as never before in Spain, below the European average, 6 points less than the United Kingdom and 7 points less than Germany. Your Honor, we continue to worry about women every day and we will continue to work for their employment and for their equal opportunities. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Batet, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u90	Madam Minister. You may believe what you say to us every week, but no one else believes it in this country; the President of the Government too, you and the President of the Government. The truth is that with their labour reform women have the worst contracts and the worst wages in this country. [[Applauds]] And, Minister, don't tell us again that's when more women are working. That's when there's more population in Spain! He's telling us about absolute numbers! Stop deceiving or deceiving yourself and present effective measures to bridge this wage gap. There are so many women who have been expelled from the labour market! With her Government and her labour reform, it is when more women have given up looking for a job. You know why? Because so many rights have been lost along the way and the working conditions are so bad that many have come to the conclusion that working means losing money, it means a cost to them. We cannot surrender to this reality. For them, for their dignity, for their lives, for regaining those lost rights, Minister, we will not fail to demand a new Workers' Statute, an income pact and the repeal of labour reform. For them, Minister. We owe him; you, as a minister, owe him. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u91	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Batet, engagement with women with facts, with data, not with demagogy. With the Socialist Party and the socialist governments, 1,400,000 women were unemployed in Spain, his Government did. And the pay gap was in historical peaks. Do you know what the government of Mariano Rajoy has done? Commitment to women, more female employment than ever before, more stable female employment than ever, 5 500 000 women - look at the figures - with an indefinite contract, as never before in Spain. You tell me about equal pay. The wage gap is at historical minimums, and it is recognised by Eurostat, at historical minimums. We're talking partiality. Yes, I'm just as worried about you, but today there are 3 points less partiality than in 2011, when the socialists ruled. We're getting better, Your Honor. Every day we demonstrate our commitment to women, also to women pensioners. The pension gap has also narrowed. You know why? Because there are 440,000 women who receive a maternity supplement that this government has launched. And the gender gap in pensions has fallen by 13% in two years, Your Honor. Therefore more commitment to women, every day, of you and us. But you no longer deceive anyone, stop fooling yourselves also in this House. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u93	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED ANTONIAN SAVER OF THE ENTINE ORTEGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE QUALITY OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF YOUTH AFTER 6 YEARS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF HIS WORK REFORM? [[File number 180/00531]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u94	She also asked the Minister of the Member of Parliament, Mr Salvador Antonio de la Encina Ortega, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister for Employment, no one doubts that employment is being created; we do not question it. What we do question is the quality of employment, it is good news that jobs are created, but the absolute precariousness of the labour market, especially of young people, is unbearable. There is no economic justification in our country for the high rates of job insecurity in our market, especially among young people. Trash contracts, low wages, temporaryity in all activities, including seasonal and non-seasonal, small, medium-sized and large enterprises, and in many cases labour exile. Do you remember in the post-war days of the young and the elderly in the cardboard case? Today, with the backpack and the tablet, because they don't have a present here. You to our young people - among whom there are more than a million unemployed and those who are lucky enough to have a precarious employment contract - do not give them the future. How do you assess after six years the disaster of your labor reform? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u96	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr De la Encina, the Government's commitment to young people has been clear to us from the very beginning. And we knew that it was a fundamental issue for the present and future of Spain, so we reached our first social pact of the Youth Legislature, with the Youth Entrepreneurship and Employment Strategy, which has provided training and employment opportunities for more than 2.5 million young people in this country. Secondly, we have been fighting for the Youth Guarantee to ensure that Europe also takes measures in favour of young people, and thanks to this and to the cooperation of the Autonomous Communities, 1,050 000 young people today benefit from the Youth Guarantee, which has helped 45% of those registered to have a job. We know we have to keep working for the young, but there's one thing that's starting to get better. Since we have reached the government, the unemployment rate among young people has fallen by 20 points, and today, undefined recruitment among young people is growing at a rate of 20%, above the national average. With you going down every day, you sent a million young people to unemployment, the unemployment rate among young people between 2008 and 2011 rose from 18 % to 50 %. Therefore, less lessons and more initiatives in favour of young people in this House. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. De la Encina, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u99	Minister of Employment, what country do you live in? In what world do you live, Minister of Employment, who does not see what is happening? The situation for young people is dramatic, one million young people unemployed, and the one who has employment, in precarious. The vast majority of contracts signed by young people are contracts of less than one week. For all the data you provide on your statistical cutlet, the European Commission itself warns that the young Spaniards abandon the search for employment - 120 000 in the last quarter of last year - or emigrate, as I told you before, because they do not find conditions worthy of work. We have an obligation to give hope to these young people. That is why we have proposed from the Socialist Party an income pact, a pact for youth employment within the social dialogue, but with one condition: quality employment and decent wages for young people. We want this to be carried out with measures to eliminate false self-employment, abuse of non-employment practices, the introduction and further enhancement of the relay contract and partial retirement at the age of sixty-one. In short, we propose a pact to bring young people out of hopelessness and lack of expectations in Spain. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u100	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr De la Encina, the quality of employment begins with a job, and it was you who sent a million young people to unemployment, and it was you who made the contracts garbage in the 1980s and in the last socialist legislature who made the endless chaining of temporary contracts, which stopped this government as soon as it came to govern. Today, employment among young people is growing three times above the national average rate, jobs are being created and more and better among young people every day, and we are reaching pacts in the social dialogue. You have to explain to me, Mr De la Encina, why you do not want to support one of the measures that go into the social pact for young people, which is that young people who can be trained and work at the same time through a training and learning contract receive additional support for their contract salary of EUR 430; this is not supported by the Socialist Party. In other words, a young person who forms and works at the same time can charge more than 1000 euros, and the Socialist Party does not want to, but it does not explain it either. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u102	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA OF THE ROCIO DE FRUTO MADRAZO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE IMPLICATION OF THEIR WORK REFORM IN THE EVOLUTION OF SALARIANS? [[File number 180/00532]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u103	She also asked the Minister of Mrs Maria del Rocío de Frutos Madrazo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u104	How does the minister assess the impact of her labour reform on wages?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Minister. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, wages in Spain are fixed on collective bargaining. I am grateful for the responsibility and commitment of the social partners, who are allowing more than 500 000 jobs to be created every year in this country, to raise wages in a moderate way, but also to increase competitiveness among companies. Therefore, sustained growth in the economy with better wages and more employment, which is what our country needs. As far as the Government is concerned, our responsibility is to set the inter-professional minimum wage. Last year we agreed on an 8% increase with the Socialist Party - 2017 - and this year we have agreed on an increase in the social dialogue of 20% by 2020, which will culminate in a minimum wage increase up to 850 euros in fourteen pay, which is certainly good news for those who have less wages in our country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. De Frutos, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u108	Minister, you've come to us with your data. We will now come to you with the truth. The truth is that all their labour reforms have done has been to make workers poorer. The truth is that behind every employment data there are people who fail to reach that inter-professional minimum wage you are talking about, people with part-time contracts who work for various companies, who work on intermittent temporary contracts, and still do not get that inter-professional minimum wage, because you have done what you have done has been to rule against the vast majority of citizens of this country, who are workers who work for a wage, and what you have done has been to cause an income shift to certain business sectors. You, with each of the reforms and decisions that you have covered under grandiose concepts such as flexicurity or entrepreneurship, such as dual training, as a wage complement, all you have done has been to bring workers to unknown levels of exploitation, to levels of poverty that we have not seen so far in this country, and to sit down in some business sectors the idea that everything is good for managing human resources in your company, that everything is good for profit. I think you should stop frivolating, because you are the only ones responsible for those low wages. I will remind you of a couple of issues that you have made and that I believe are truly important. You allowed the employers, unilaterally, to lower the wage of the worker; that did not exist in our country until you arrived. You have made it possible for entrepreneurs, unilaterally, to withdraw from collective agreements; that did not exist until you arrived. You have made profit companies have fired your workers by amending Article 51; you know that and you have done that. You know that those same companies have then hired workers, because they really needed them, through multi-service companies, which in turn negotiated lower agreements according to the priority of the company agreement that you have carried out. You know that these same companies hired their workers under the self-employed regime. We need a human government, a government with a social conscience that repeals the reform of the labour laws that you have created. We need a new Workers' Statute, an income pact, and above all a government that looks at people, that... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u109	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. A few clarifications, Your Honor. The first one. Since the recovery wage incomes in Spain have risen more than business profits; they are data. Second idea, Your Honor. His income covenant forgets about three and a half million unemployed people in this country; not a word from an unemployed person in his income covenant, with which he is born lame. [[Rumors]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, data from the socialist governments.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u111	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u112	From 2008 to 2011, the average gain of purchasing power was 1.5%. Do you know what happened? Two and a half million jobs were destroyed. Data from the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the recovery, 2014-2017: average wage gain in Spain 2.5%; employment growth, 2 million; 2% productivity gains. That is a healthy, sustainable and supportive growth of the economy in our country, with a government of Mariano Rajoy. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.- Mrs. Villalobos Talero: Come on, daughter, learn something!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u113	Quiet. - of Mrs Elvira Ramón Utrabo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which expresses to the Minister of Employment and Social Security: What have the consequences of the reform of the labour market on collective bargaining? [[File number 180/00533]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u114	Question by Mrs Elvira Ramón Utrabo from the Socialist Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u115	What has labour reform had to do with collective bargaining, Minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u116	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u117	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It has undoubtedly been a very positive reform for collective bargaining, because it has boosted collective bargaining and brought it closer to the level of the company and the workplace, which has led to the creation of five hundred thousand jobs each year, the improvement of wages every year in Spain, and at the same time the growth of competitiveness and productivity in companies. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u118	Thank you very much. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Mrs. Ramon.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u119	Madam Minister, you see that we must live in different countries. Six years ago we warned that their labour reform would only bring more precarious work, devaluation of wages, more inequality and more poverty; unfortunately six years later time has given us reason. What we may not have managed was the possibility that six years later, with the damage your policies have done to the workers of this country, you would still be the Minister of Employment. Minister, collective bargaining is the necessary counterweight to balance labour relations between employers and workers, as well as a key element of the right to freedom of association. You have broken that balance, and when that balance is broken, it is the workers of this country who lose. They have broken this balance by increasing the entrepreneurial power by decentralization of collective bargaining, and by giving priority to implementing the enterprise agreement on the sector in such important areas as wages, working hours or measures to reconcile family and personal life, and by facilitating employers to accommodate the disengagement clauses of the agreement for economic reasons. For us collective bargaining is an instrument of equality and balance between workers, it is a space to develop democracy and the social and labour rights of workers, while meeting the productive and organizational needs of companies. We do not like its growth model based primarily on job insecurity, cheap layoffs, low wages and the violation of workers' rights. We want fair growth, to reach everyone and everyone, to respect the rights of workers and to have decent wages. That is why it is essential at this time to repeal their labour reform and to negotiate a new status for workers who give decent wages to these and these because, Minister, their labour reform - we said, and unfortunately we are right - has only brought precariousness, temporality, fraud and corporate abuse. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u120	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Ramon, let the good real data not spoil your hard opposition. Sounds like a lie, Your Honor! Collective bargaining has been dynamized, and the data say so, not by the Government. Notice, today more agreements of all kinds are negotiated; on average in recent years since 2012 32% more each year, being negotiated until today 10,817 collective agreements. Your Honor, I respect the trade unions, the employers and the more than 286,000 representatives of the workers in this country who negotiate them every day; you sometimes give the impression that you do not. Secondly, collective bargaining has improved because it is approaching the company, and that has served to save thousands of jobs in the most difficult times of the crisis, Your Honor. Since 2012, there have been more than 9100 downtimes in this country, saving 355,000 jobs and 98% of them. Do you not agree with maintaining employment and not expelling workers from businesses? Thirdly, Your Honor, it has been a more dynamic and women-friendly collective negotiation. You know what? Business agreements are the ones that most recognize equal pay for men and women. Statistics say so; look even at the UGT report. The wage gap is smaller in company agreements, I tell you as a woman, but I also want to tell you something like Andalusian. You belong to the same autonomous community as me and we're lucky it's been ruled by a woman, yet it's been forty years without worrying about women. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u122	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u123	Do you know how much an Andalusian woman charges today? EUR 18 300. It is below the Spanish average, 2000 euros less per year than a Catalan or any autonomous community that is on the average... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u124	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u125	...and 5000 less than a Madrid girl or one from the Basque Country. Do something in Andalusia too! Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u126	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA AINA VIDAL SÁEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT OPINION DO THE OECD AFRIMINATIONS ON THE IMMINENT DEPLOME OF THE PENSIONS CONCERNED BY THE POST IN THE MARKET OF THE SUSTAINABILITY FACTOR? [[File number 180/00520]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u127	Question by Mrs Aina Vidal Sáez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u128	What do you think the OECD claims about the impending collapse of pensions due to their sustainability factor deserve?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u129	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u130	Mrs Vidal, have you read the report you are referring to? Because as far as what you ask me, in the seventy-nine mentions that are made to Spain does not appear anywhere. As I speak of this report, I invite you to read it, among other things, because it makes some important reflections on the pension model in Spain. The first, that the Spaniards live longer years, we have one of the most important life hopes in the world, and we also live in better conditions. The second is that we have a replacement rate for the best in the OECD and the big countries in our environment, because we keep pensions higher than the last wage. And the third - which I also think is important - that relative poverty among the over sixty-five years old is low in Spain compared to the OECD average and the average of the countries in our environment. Look, yesterday a report on our pension model came back and I think you should also read it - I invite you - from Fedea. He says that households dependent on a pension mainly in our country increased disposable income during the crisis until 2015. And it says more, that pensions in Spain are a guarantee of income in times of crisis. Your Honor, do as I - and as the rest of this House - feel proud of the pension model we have in Spain. Let me give you some advice, don't look at Venezuela because they don't pay the pensioners living in Spain there: 13,000 who don't charge in our country. [[Protests]] [[Risa.-Protests by Mrs. Montero Gil]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u131	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u132	And don't look at Greece where pensions fall by 40% to pensioners either. Look in our country what Spanish democracy has done in forty years with pensioners. A model that pays high pensions, each day higher and more pensioners even at a complicated time, in the economic crisis. Add to the state pension pact and stop demagogying. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u133	Mrs. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u134	Minister, whatever you say, your Executive is not in luck and much less the areas for which you are responsible. They do not win for unfavorable sentences and reports that disassemble these worlds of Yupi that you strive to sell us here at the Congress of Deputies. You are a danger to our jobs and our pensions. Look, on the sixth anniversary of her labor reform, we are more precarious, poorer and more unequal. There is more fraud and more corporate abuse. Our wages keep falling and they don't recover, minister. They have exhausted the Reserve Fund and have also turned the social security deficit into a structural one. Your balance is a real disaster. Look, in a year the sustainability factor begins to come into force, and you in the Commission said you still didn't know how it was going to affect the pensioners' pocket. Well, it has had to be the OECD that made the accounts for us to know how it was going to affect it. They admit that their reforms will lead to a collapse of the amount of pensions, 46 %, minister, 46, a real barbarity, and it has further explanation: it is their factor of sustainability and their rate of revaluation. His reforms are cuts and also very ideological cuts, minister. Look, in the face of the Social Security drama, the People's Party has two proposals: one, that we save 2 euros a month, and the other, that if we live longer we cover less. That is what you propose to us today. Some might think that what Celia Villalobos said on Spanish Television was a classic rapture, but it turns out that a week later you make us a proposal that goes precisely on private pension plans, to make them more attractive. That's what you are. It basically means that you accept your inability to guarantee a decent pension to most people, and in the face of that failure what you do is basically guarantee and save your own, to whom you can pay a private pension plan, to your own, minister. You make private pensions for yours and precarious old age for everything else, yes, yes. [[Applauds]] The People's Party is unable to guarantee any future or present to any generation. On the revaluation of pensions, minister, this is the letter my mother has received at home announcing that she will receive a 0.25 pension. I'd give you the two eurillos that give you but we have more dignity than that. Dismissed, minister! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u135	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the governments committed to our public pension model are the ones that create jobs, such as Mariano Rajoy's, which has allowed 700,000 more pensions in Spain since 2011, and have risen on average by 16%. Your Honor, we have a model that we have to be proud of, which has allowed us to face a crisis while maintaining its purchasing power and having as income guarantee pensions in Spain. Your Honor, work on the Toledo Pact to continue to do so together. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u137	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Sofia Fernández Castanón, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can in common form the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment: What does the Government intend to do to comply with the European legislation on environmental pollution? [[File number 180/000519]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u138	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mrs Sofía Fernández Castañón, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u139	Thank you, President. Minister, what does the government intend to do to comply with European legislation on environmental pollution?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u140	Thank you very much. Madam Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u141	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I am honoured to belong to a government that is characterized by compliance; by compliance in the most diverse areas of European policy. Since we arrived at the Government we have been working to fulfil all international commitments and thereby regain the credibility of Spain; and also to improve the quality of life of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fernández Castañón. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u143	You see, minister, if we have asked you this question, it is because we are surprised that your best answer has been to charge the municipalities of Madrid and Barcelona - what a coincidence - by blaming them for the European fine and the ban. I am an Asturian and it happens that the central area of Asturias - with the cities of Gijón and Avilés in the ranking, at the forefront - is one of the focal points of pollution that worry the European Union, but which you forgot to mention in that sharing of blame. The central area of Asturias is the seventh metropolitan area of the State in terms of population and the fourth in motorization. At least one million people live under peaks of pollution that combine the industrial - with Arcelor-Mittal as a major contaminant of the region - with the fact that the use of the car in the region planned by private transport is constantly encouraged, and that its public transport, significantly the vicinity, is dismantled. With particularly adverse weather conditions our pollution exceeds those two cities of change that you censored as responsible for the European scandal, when the truth is that as a minister you should give all the data and be responsible. Look at Asturias. The problem we have with the PSOE, which is the one who denies the contamination or reduces its importance for not getting involved with the heavy industry of the region, putting ahead the business and economic interest in the health of the citizen in a community where cancer and cardiorespiratory diseases are our bread of every death. Because the Asturian PP - in the opposition, of course - has no problem in rushing against that socialist inaction. And, Minister, you have to take the lead in a first-class public health problem that reverses health spending, that undermines the quality of life of people, that puts money before care and respect for the environment, that goes against the sustainability of life, that only benefits industries and electricity. Do your job and do not shoot at drowned municipalities with a part of your action - which limits budget - and your management - which the Government has put in place precisely. Many Asturians and Asturians are coughing poison and their responsibility is to take over and not read us justifications. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u144	Madam Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u145	Thank you very much, President. Look, Your Honor, in January 2012 we inherited a breach of climate change. Today we are 10% ahead of our 20/20 obligations. In 2012, the watershed hydrological plans, which were required for the year 2009, were also not made. In four years we approved two cycles of hydrological planning and already worked in the third cycle. In 2014 we approved the Growth Plan with an investment close to €12 billion for sanitation and purification, with the aim of helping to overcome the non-compliance in this area that we inherited and that due to the huge delay is hard to overcome. We work to improve the protection of our seas, we have increased the marine area from 1% in 2012 to 8% in 2016. In the coming months the Mediterranean Cepin will be completed and we will reach 13%: more than anyone in the world in terms of the protection of our seas. We will exceed the internationally agreed 10% target for 2020. We also support the municipalities and autonomous communities with the Pemar Plan and the RIP, more than seven million last year to meet their waste obligations. And we also work to improve air quality, we are already going through the II Plan AIRE, equipped with 276 million euros. We have invested billions of euros in vehicle fleet renewal and energy efficiency to help the competent administrations comply. In fact, the number of infringements has been decreasing: eight in 2010; we are five. But, Your Honor, as far as Avilés is concerned, the problem is that the air quality meter is located in the environment of an ITV. It doesn't match. He's in a bad position. That's the problem. [[Rumors]] And the Asturian Government, and we in the hands of the Asturian Government, are already working with the Commission to change the location of that meter. Spain has two major problems in air quality, but it has a much more serious problem that you have alluded to, a health problem, because there are many millions of people who breathe the air that governs... [[Mrs Martín González, Mrs Lucia, spoke words that were not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u146	Thank you very much. Quiet. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA MARIA EUGENIA ROMERO RODRIGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT PROGRESS DOES THE GOVERNMENT WANT TO IMPLEMENT WITH THE 'COLLABORATION PLAN FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE COMPOSITION OF FOODS AND DRINKS AND OTHER MEASURES 2017-2020'? [[File number 180/00525]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u147	She is now asking the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by María Eugenia Romero Rodríguez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Overweight and obesity are a major public health problem. The World Health Organization claims that this is an epidemic that has its origins in poor nutrition and lack of physical exercise. Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in our country, but another type of pathology, such as some types of cancer, diabetes, osteoporosis, hypertension, are very linked to eating habits and new lifestyles. The proliferation of processed food consumption, the abandonment of the Mediterranean diet, the boom of recommendations without adequate scientific basis on food consumption or non-consumption, combined with sedentary lifestyle, make overweight a cause for concern in our country. Among the measures that have proved to be very effective by the Government of Spain and its Ministry, the Ministry of Health, is the NAOS Strategy for Nutrition, Physical Activity and the Prevention of Obesity, the Code for the Co-regulation of Food and Beverage Advertising, the launch of the Observatory for Nutrition and the Study of Obesity, as well as the investment in research with 230 projects on obesity and nutrition carried out at the Carlos III Institute of Health. With this action, the trend towards overweight in Spanish society, to a greater extent in the child population, is decreasing, and in adults it has stabilized after several decades of constant growth. In my group, the People's Group, we believe that we must continue to act. We encourage you to continue working in this line, and pooling efforts with the whole of society to make us all active agents of our health. Knowing how, how much and what components we eat, as well as encouraging food improvement, is the great challenge to add more life to the years, and so I ask you, Minister, what progress does the Government intend to make with the Collaborative Plan for Improving the Composition of Food and Beverages and other measures 2017-2020? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u149	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u150	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we are together in Spain, facing obesity and sedentary lifestyle. In four years we have reduced the excess weight in boys and girls by more than 3 percentage points, but in the government we do not comply, and that is why last week we presented the Collaborative Plan for improving the composition of food and drink, which is a plan that goes from 2017 to 2020. It is a plan to reduce the excess consumption of sugar, salt and saturated fats; a pioneering plan that reformulates more than 3,500 products found in 45% of the usual shopping basket of all families, with the aim always to promote our health, to prevent diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer and especially those caused by obesity. The plan marks a before and after in Spain because it improves the composition of food and drink, which will allow us to reduce at least 10% of added sugars, saturated fats and salt. For example, we reduce 10% of the added sugars in the cereals that our children eat breakfast in the morning, 10% of the salt that contains the prepared dishes that many citizens consume every day, and also 5% of the saturated fats included in products such as pastries and pastries. Secondly, a healthier diet is pursued in products that are sold in automatic machines, in sales that we find in public and private sites such as schools, institutes or hospitals. We are therefore committed to purchasing only reformulated products and will increase the supply of balanced food from 30 % to 50 %. This commitment to a healthier diet is also transferred to catering menus that are served, for example, in schools, hospitals and residential centers, because we are not only concerned about what we eat at home families but also about what we eat outside. Therefore, this plan represents a great transformation in our way of buying, feeding and, above all, taking care of us. It is a transformation of our way of understanding health because we prevent the disease with a healthy diet and physical exercise and it is a social transformation because it teaches us to take care of our health not as an option but as a responsibility. And we have done so with the five Spanish employers of the production, distribution, restoration and sales industry... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u152	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Mr Bataller, the Joint Parliamentary Group's urgent inquiry into the level of commitment of the Government to the reform of autonomous financing. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u153	This year 2018 marks the 600th anniversary of the institution of the Valencian Generalitat and on March 17th it will be forty years since the promulgation by the State of the Royal Decree-Law 10/1978 creating the Pre-Autonomic Council of the Valencian Country, an entity born therefore before the adoption of the current Constitution and which involved the recognition of the political legal personality of the Valencian people, something inevitable then in the face of the growing democratic popular mobilization. Possibly no one who has not experienced these moments will be able to fully grasp the importance and symbolism that reached the demand of the statut d'autonomia, since it was nothing less than the return of the dignity of the Valencian people, the return of their self-government that had been officially snatched from us by the right of conquest - if a conquest can be called just. We came to believe that the simple invocation of the statue would solve a pen of centuries of denial of the identity of a territory and of the people who inhabit it. The Valencian problem then gripped the State with strength and started the recognition of the obvious: that we are a people that had been built over the centuries and that wanted to project into the future on a democracy horizon through institutions of self-government as it had done in previous times. However, as you know, the political process came to turn the later state of self-government into a 'coffee for all', in which the Valencian people were further degraded to the slow path of article 143, although it was later clearly compensated by a law of transfers. Our formal configuration as an autonomous community ended up assuming we got into a suit smaller than the one corresponding to our size, which was a hard blow in the symbolic universe of collective illusions, and this caused a frustration that has lasted a long time. From a distance, however, it must be recognized that the 'coffee for all' has turned out to be very positive. In Spain forty years ago - you will know, Minister - there were intolerable differences between the countryside and the city, between the interior and the coast, between the north and the south; territorial differences that unfortunately still exist in part but no longer have the dramatic dyes they presented at the time. Anyone who now travels through Spain sees a busy map of public universities, public hospitals, social welfare centres and well-educated children. This has been possible thanks to a public power that has spread throughout the territory, that has approached people's problems and that has assumed competence over those matters that have a more immediate impact on everyday well-being. It is true that this has been accompanied on numerous occasions by corruption, waste, nepotism..., but in the face of this, the State of Autonomy has also served to create its best antidote, which is the configuration everywhere of a society formed, concerned, vigilant and increasingly demanding with whom it holds power. So, forty years ago we did not know, but the 'coffee for all' would end up implying inseparably linking the territorial problem with the social problem, so that now what we have is a social state of autonomy that must work harmoniously because to meet one of these problems inevitably means to attend to the other, and so it must be to face the serious challenges that we currently face: unemployment, job insecurity, inadequate pensions, inequality between men and women and the conversion to sustainability. But, today, it seems that some who call themselves - I don't know why - constitutionalist bloc question the philosophy of the very same title VIII of the Constitution that develops our present state of autonomy, precisely one of the points that the most debate aroused in the Transition, with the then very fresh memory of centralism, of the Francoism from which we came. And I say this because some seem to miss the moral cochambre that represented a Spain that was governed by the principle of: One, Great..., etcetera; that Spain in which, in expression of the bleak Manuel Vázquez Montalbán, it seemed that everyone smelled his feet. Fortunately, we have overcome that, and what it is now about, with the limbs that we have of the state of autonomy, we are projected into the future. In fact, it is surprising that those who defend the application of article 155 ad infinitum to a given territory, however, are not concerned about the systematic non-application to many other territories, also to the Valencian, of the following article, 156, which is in which the Constitution guarantees the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities. And this is more surprising when, for example, the Members of the People's Party and of Citizens themselves are also aware of this problem, they are also complaining, and so they signed a unanimous institutional declaration, in Cortes Valencianas, calling for a change in the funding model on 26 October last year. Look, Minister, the reality is that fifteen autonomous communities are currently governed by a funding mechanism that has expired since 2014. In the Valencian case this already expired model has meant that the Generalitat has finally had to devote 70% of its budget to the core of the social state, i.e.: health, education, social services; for everything else there is a small 30% with which it must face, for example, the protection of the environment, the fight against forest fires and desertification, the regeneration and management of its territory, the competitiveness of agriculture and a very large number of others. This situation of facsimistic precariousness has been reached because the State has not wanted to see any obvious data, namely: the increase in the Valencian population, which in the fifteen years immediately preceding the outbreak of the crisis went from not reaching 4 million to more than 5 million inhabitants, i.e. an increase of more than 25 %. On the other hand, the consolidation of the Valencian territory as a place of strong tourist and residential attraction in which many citizens of other autonomous communities and of the European Union have settled, which increases the economic impacts especially on health and social services - certainly, without the central State having shown a willingness to proceed to the recovery of what has been spent on these concepts, 400 million euros that owe us today -. Nor has the crisis of the traditional industrial and agricultural sectors which cemented the goodness of the Valencian economy until the end of the 1980s, when the autonomous state was established, and which have been causing this crisis, a high unemployment and an increase in the emigration of the qualified young population, which has meant a great economic loss. [[The lady]] In this regard, since Compromís we have already pointed out the desirability of approving by decree-law the update of the financing system, which would mean that the Government would pay the liquidation of 2016 and update the deliveries on account of 2017, in total 1953 million euros for the support of the basic social services of the Valencian population, because it is urgent to relieve the autonomous arches of the debt burden. We are the autonomous community most indebted to the state, with slightly more than 41,600 million euros, and this is also surprising because we are the only poor community that is contributing to the whole system as if it were rich. This EUR 41.6 billion is equivalent to 40% of our GDP, and experts believe that at least 25 billion of these millions are illegitimate debt, that is, as a result of an unfair distribution of resources; they are because we are an underfunded community. Then I say to you, Minister: with what kind of sufficiency can the autonomous communities count when, for example in cases such as the Valencian, we do not receive compensation in taxes such as VAT, in which we are contributing to the state's arks in more quantity than we represent for the population's weight? Or what sufficiency can we have when the quarterly liquidations that the Generalitat must receive are continuously delayed? You, Minister, on the other hand, have also spoken of the viability of the autonomous system with good tax collection. What do you want, for the autonomous communities to assume the unpopularity of raising taxes while you appear as champions of the discounts? Is this institutional loyalty? Do we not deserve Valencians and Valencians to apply the Spanish Constitution to us? Because this is what we are asking of you, that the Constitution be applied to us. Why is this repeatedly not being done, Minister? They also know that they are late in their Government's promise that before the adoption of the next General State Budgets there would be a new model of economic financing and so far we have neither. They are also late, minister, to realize that the Constitution, forty years later, presents unequivocal symptoms of exhaustion, especially on the periphery, where there are serious territorial problems that must be addressed sooner or later. Because with censorship the problems are not solved, but it seems that this government does not know any other way to manage, to cover the problems until they burst into his face. Well, since Compromís we argue that a constitutional reform is necessary that must be done with the help of the autonomous communities that represent territorial diversity and establish fair and clear criteria to ensure that all communities will be able to have sufficient resources to cope with the competitive package they have assumed. And don't think that we stay in the complaint, you know that the Valencian Council has always offered you dialogue, in addition to proposals, and we are more interested than anyone in this reform. By the way, the Council has lowered the payment period to suppliers to twenty-and-a-half days, despite under-financing, so it turns out that the Council is fulfilling for the first time since this registration was implemented in September 2014 with the legal deadline of thirty days set in the Law on Morosity. We would like to see this taken note and acted accordingly. Turning to the chapter on improving investment, what are you doing with regard to the necessary proposals in this regard? To illustrate, I'm going to go back in time. On 13 December 2011, the proposed reform of the first additional provision of the Statute was registered for the first time in Congress, a provision that seeks precisely to eliminate the historical discrimination that makes the Valencian population not receive a percentage of investments equivalent to the population. We are 10.6% of the population and receive a maximum of 6.9% and, depending on the years, 3.7 points less than the population we represent. Well, since that distant December 13, 2011, it's been six years and forty-four days exactly. The statute has been debated in plenary three times, one for each of the last three legislatures, with the favourable vote of the parliamentary majority on the three occasions. But we find that from 7 October 2016 until now the legislative veto has been imposed. We have entered a limbo, forty-six times its processing has been extended and the last one yesterday. We're in a state of paralysis. And it is that the proposal for a statute means nothing less that we are no longer receiving 270 million euros a year that we needed for investments that lead to greater collective well-being. And I know that officially this is not your responsibility, Minister, but swear to me, swear to me that you have no responsibility and that the Government of Spain has no responsibility in that the parliamentary group that always supports you, and that other group that is a strange fellow traveler for you, are blocking the bulk of parliamentary initiatives for more than a year, obstructing the activity of this Parliament and not allowing initiatives such as the reform of the statute or the proposed law that Compromises presented to penalize the political parties that housed in its corrupt plots. Do you think this is serious that you're falling down with? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. The Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the general tone of your question, which also represents a new opportunity for the Government to publicly explain to the House its position on an issue as important as the reform of autonomous financing in our country. Just over fifteen days ago, I had the opportunity to appear at the Congressional Finance and Public Service Commission, where I outlined the government's general guidelines on autonomous financing. His lordship has started in his intervention of the consideration of the success that is - a great collective success - for all the Spaniards the foundation from our Constitution - now we will fulfill forty years - of the process of political and administrative decentralization most important of our history and surely of the history of the developed world, because there is no country in the world that in forty years has been able to decentralize in administrative terms and, of course, with the discharge of political responsibilities that this represents, from a completely centralized Spain, as is Spain of the end of Francoism, a Spain like that of the autonomies, where the management of a much higher public expenditure in the autonomous communities, even that directly managed by the General Administration of the State, is located. This has happened in a time of general economic growth, experiencing deep crises, but in a time of widespread economic growth and his lordship has acknowledged that today's Spain has nothing to do with that of forty years ago. By the way, some of the honourable Members of this House are not referring to Spain forty years ago, but to Spain eighty years ago. It is the one they continually claim because without that their political discourse is as empty as we have had the opportunity to hear this morning. [[Applauds]] Finally, formidable political discourses completely absent from reality, not from our national policy, but from the social and economic reality in which we all live. Your honor has referred to the Valencian people. Of course, it's the Spanish people! The sum of the Valencian people, of the extremist people, of the Andalusian people, of the Canarian people, of the Galician people, of the Basque people, of the Catalan people is to be really Spanish. Or isn't that the town we're talking about? I don't know, but I can't find another town. The correspondents of the Government that we live in Madrid do not understand another Spain if it is not from that diversity that so fruitful has resulted to us all, although it is true that there are many nostalgics of centralism, many people who ultimately struggle to identify with the time in which they were born. This is really the case and I do not look at anyone younger in this House. The Government's willingness to pursue a reform of autonomous financing is clear. Why now? Because we are growing and the collection, which is what we all pay in the form of taxes, is being managed directly by the tax agency or autonomous or municipal, of a local nature, is increasing. All taxes are growing as a result of economic growth and of what is most important, the job creation that is taking place in our country. It is, therefore, time to rethink how we distribute among our administrations, in order to avoid the deficiency that we can objectively identify in them, the provision of public services now that we have a growing collection. That is what we are talking about in terms of autonomous financing and also when we refer to the new local financing, how we distribute the result of paying our taxes. And I insist that this is the time to do it because the collection is growing. Taxes managed by the Tax Agency increased by 6.3% in 2017, compared to the previous year; 6.3% means that the Spanish have paid, we have entered the Tax Agency almost 12 billion euros on what we entered in 2016. And the own resources, the own income of the Valencian Community are growing at a rate of two digits. Therefore, what we are talking about is how we distribute the consequences of that new collection, of that wind that is inflating the candles of our Public Treasury that must be a Shared Treasury. The Government's intention is very clear, and it is also clear in terms of the need to simplify our funding system - we are talking about it in this Commission and I do not want to repeat the arguments here. Simplifying is reducing the number of funds that distribute these resources. We are talking about the need to order such taxes so that they do not engrave taxable facts that may be subject not only to double taxation, but to dissimulation of our fundamental economic activity. By the way, the Valencian Community has a lot to do with this project, because it has a very large economic diversity; it has an industrial structure that we have to strengthen, a very interesting and very important agro-food production, a very powerful service sector and a tourism sector of the first in Spain. So what we have to face - which is what I claimed in that Commission - is what the consequences are, what we have to do with the debts that have accumulated in terms of what has been the adoption by the Government of Spain of exceptional financing mechanisms that have not let any autonomous community or city in Spain break down. This is what we are putting to public debate, to public exposure, what we do with the consequence of those mechanisms which is, in the end, that we have turned our administrations' debts to third parties into those administrations' debts to the State; which, by the way, is a better lender, more reliable than none, right? Because we're all of us. Or aren't we all? Is there a state that we're not all? I would therefore like to tell you that the reliability of the consequences of these mechanisms is what we now have to rethink, what we do with those debts. Debts, of course, are paid in one way or another; not even when those 'quita' terms are used, because no one is taken away, because we all pay it. What we're talking about is going over and over again what the consequences of that debt are. But I will recall that the Valencian Community has been one of the main users of total liquidity. Of the EUR 255 billion that we have mobilised, from the payment to suppliers to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, the Financial Facility Fund, in the case of the Valencian Community, the total amount of liquidity used amounts to EUR 57 334.25 million, of which almost 21 000 have been paid directly to suppliers; almost 65 % of health service providers, which is, in short, really to finance health, in this case of Valencians and, in short, of so many people that we have had the opportunity to spend some time in those territories of the Valencian Community, because they receive millions of people who reside in the rest of Spain or do so in other countries, mainly European countries. All this has resulted in a very significant savings in the debt restructuring of the Valencian Community. Of a total of savings produced in the total debt of our autonomous communities, 28,481 million euros, in the case of the Valencian Community the savings have been 6,777 million euros. Therefore, we are faced with funding that has been positive because it has saved the burden of interest and that is in the budgets of our autonomous communities that have used these mechanisms and also in much of the budgets of our local corporations. Now, when we talk about the new financing system, it is time to restructure that debt, to think about the maturity of that debt that they have contracted with the State, that is, with all the Spaniards. You can also study the financial conditions of that debt, that is to restructure the debt, not take it off, take it off in the end, we pay it off among all, that is, there is no take it off if we are really talking about a debt-payment commitment among all. This morning I will agree with the President of the Valencian Community when he says that the waters should be returned to a reasonable course, that is to say to dialogue, not confrontation. By the way, there was no need to provoke public demonstrations to carry forward this negotiation of autonomous financing. No need, if he is speaking to a Government that is the first to be convinced of the need for such autonomous funding. Social partners and entrepreneurs should not be mobilized to convince a government that what it is about to sit down, but to sit down with figures and approaches that they think about for all and for all. I therefore cannot agree more with the words of the President of the Valencian Community, Mr Ximo Puig, but I also have to say that, as I said in the Committee on Finance, this is not the responsibility of a government; this is the responsibility of the political parties, of the parliamentary groups sitting in this House; a government cannot and should not do so alone. We are talking about the failure of the 2009 autonomous funding, which we are talking about. Therefore, if we have to overcome what was a failure let us learn that we are either doing this new model of autonomous financing together or we are not going to get anywhere. The Government is in a position to offer and negotiate, but, I insist, we must do so from the institutional loyalty, which goes beyond the loyalty represented by the autonomous governments. The parliamentary groups in this House are sitting here and I must summon their loyalty, including that of Compromís, who is responsible for the Government of the Valencian Community. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u157	Minister, on 31 January, you appeared to account for the autonomous reform and you were in the midst of a series of vagaries and you have now re-involved in those vagaries, because the bottom of the matter is that we are talking about a financing system that has expired for more than four years and this system is causing, as I have said, an unbearable debt for many territories and also for the Valencian who, as you know, according to the indicators is the only poor territory that is contributing as if it were rich. While the average available to every person living in this country is 185 euros, a Valencian woman or a Valencian woman has 119 euros of funding. And this is a truly intolerable and unsustainable aggravation. Keep expanding the solution of the problem with its vagueness, tell this to the families who are waiting for an operation, to the young people who are waiting to receive a scholarship, to the people who have to leave precarious work because they are more on account of staying to take care of their own because they see no perspective. We need our welfare state to recover minimally decent levels. You need to get out of the way. You still don't tell us what you want to do. You opened the door to a debt write-off, then disowned, then repointed there... You proposed to approve a real decree to liquidate the 2016 financing and the 2017 deliveries and you have not talked about this again. You bet to approach the reform as soon as possible, said the model would be by 2018 and here we are still, as we say in Valencia, stickant-li voltes to the nano, that is, turning to the same thing. You already have to tell us clearly how and when the reform is going to be done. Tell us what your proposal is. From there, the rest of the political actors will also formulate their own and a negotiation will open, but we need to know what you put on the table. Look if you are ambiguous, Mr Montoro, that last Monday, the day before yesterday, you had to convene a restricted meeting to answer to your own, to the Baroness of the People's Party, to tell them what, we suppose, to reassure them. Before what? We don't know anything, there's a total opacity in this matter. So, in the face of vagueness, unfulfilled promises and government absenteeism, I'm going to give you some work notes to make it easy for him. First of all, it would be interesting to recognize the debt arising from under-financing and to create a system of compensation, but do not bother people by talking about forgiveness of debt or things as well as rescue the Valencian Community, as, by the way, they did generously with banks and boxes. No, Mr Montoro, what we're talking about is paying us what was on us and what we still owe. It does not sell us as concessions, as gifts, some contributions and some gifts in terms of interests. We are talking about the fact that we have over 25 billion illegitimate debt, and that is what needs to be done is compensation. They're not giving us anything. Secondly, they comply with article 156 of the Constitution so that we all have financial autonomy to provide public services to preserve social welfare. Thirdly, they incorporate new indicators into the funding system. We must comply with the population indicator, we must also comply with other indicators, such as the unemployment rate or the number of people who are users of social services. Fourthly, you include in the Constitution the system of financing the autonomous communities, a system that must be based on clear, express, sufficiency and equity criteria, which clearly avoid situations of inequality and injustice that are prolonged over time. And reconfigure shared taxes. There are taxes, such as VAT or IRPF, which are allocated at 50% when the proportion of the amount actually assumed by each autonomous community in total expenditure is not taken into account. Finally, I ask you: will you comply with and collect our proposals to put them into practice? Or are you going to continue to launch incidents before the media? I say this because in today's intervention - excuse me - I see that we have a very exhausted speech. I think the last thing we heard of him before we came here was playing time with the take-off, but we don't see a seriousness, and what we're talking about is guaranteeing the basic services of five million people. I conclude now and repeat the question: what are your proposals, Mr Montoro? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bataller, I set out the guidelines in the Committee on Finance and the Civil Service fifteen days ago. I'd be happy to repeat them here again. Only one title merited a term that I didn't even use in the Commission, but life is like that, I'm not going to pursue headlines now. However, the main lines were set out there: reform of the system of funds comprising the current autonomous financing, bringing them to the guarantee of basic public services - health, education and social protection - and promoting funds from which the State exercises its responsibility to promote convergence between territories in terms of economic growth and job creation. And from there, it also leads to the reflection of what we do with the exceptional liquidity mechanisms that we have applied since 2012: payment to suppliers, Autonomous Liquidity Fund and Facilitated Finance. Therefore, we are publicly presenting these proposals, we are talking to all the political groups; we must talk to the political groups present in this House about the present and the content of that autonomous funding, but clarifying - I insist - that the system did not expire in 2014, they say again how many headlines. It did not expire, the Autonomous Financing Act of 2009 does not have an expiry date, as did the Lofca amendment we made in 2002 and which for the first time did not have an expiry date. Even if they keep insisting and say we're late, we're not late; we're late for the opportunity. Do you believe that in 2014, in which a review of the system had to be undertaken, when the tax collection in Spain was very low, even a review of the system and a reform proposal like now could have been undertaken, that we have a collection almost equivalent to that which we had in 2007, when we were at the door of this crisis? By the way, crises that did not want to see some of your ladies and gentlemen still present, but the crisis came and the debts had to be paid. What we are talking about is getting to work, but, I insist, we have to get to know each other first, with the figures in our hands, without creating comparative grievances with each other. That must really be the content of a new model of autonomous financing. No one is going to be financed at anyone's expense, that's what we must overcome once and for all. Outside wealth is not a privilege; the Fiscal Economic Regime of the Canary Islands is not a privilege; the fiscal economic regime that we are now negotiating for Balearics, which we are going to carry on, is not a privilege; the fiscal economic regime of Ceuta and Melilla is not a privilege; they are differences of a Common Finance, singularities of a Common Finance, which is the one that must bring us all together in this common project that we call Spain, and where Compromís, from its claims must participate positively in it, apart from claiming. In that regard, I call on the opportunity that it represents to coincide in a legislature as in which we have objective rights in which we have sufficient collection. Let us share it fairly and let us rethink that if we are talking about the new autonomous funding we will also have to give an effective deadline to the exceptional financing mechanisms, they cannot have an indefinite validity. It will be necessary to promote that the autonomous communities go out to finance themselves in the progressive market, gradually, and from there let us rethink the content of the terms of that debt, which is a common debt. Rethinking the debt, well used, means that we have already made a contribution to the most equitable financing among Spanish citizens living in the different territories. Let us do, as we always have to do in politics, the need for virtue and let us do among all that we have today are the members of a great political agreement that will lead us to a system of autonomous financing, which, I insist, will end these comparative grievances between territories and ensure that the citizens of Spain reach the same level, at the standard level of basic public services, regardless of their place of residence. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the liquidation and termination of the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies and of the Quality of Services and the Failure of the Evaluation of Public Policies. [[EVAL]] [[File number 172/000104]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u161	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the liquidation and extinction of the State Agency for the evaluation of public policies and the quality of services, Aeval, and the lack of evaluation of public policies. For your defence, Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u162	Thank you, Madam President. I think it was Bertolt Brecht who once said that bad are the times when we have to defend the obvious. In this case, the obvious thing is to defend the need of this country for a state agency to evaluate public policies. A few months ago, in July last year, the Aeval, the State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies, was dissolved, and it became a general sub-direction, I imagine that in some of the many archanes that the Ministry of Finance has. [[The Lord]] This was the result of a pact between Citizens and the People's Party that called for the dissolution of Aeval and the creation of a more independent body in the future. Obviously no independent body has been set up, today we are in a general sub-directory and it has just been achieved that there is no State agency for the evaluation of public policies. Previously, in the pact between Citizens and the PSOE, almost the opposite was said, that the Aeval had to be strengthened and its independence guaranteed; we could say that the Citizens Group has great versatility and this versatility is what I want to refer to now. As you know very well, this assessment of public policies emerges in the first Zapatero Government; I think I remember that it begins with a law on 18 July 2006 - I will never forget it because it is 18 July 2006 - in which it proposes precisely a law on state agencies and within the framework of that law appeared the Aeval Regulatory Law, which ends also in December 2006. It was an important bet of the Socialist Party, I think I remember that of Jordi Sevilla, and on this occasion they did not try to reform the public administration, but tried to create a series of state agencies and give them a specific autonomy both financial and functional and managerial. In that context, the Aeval emerged. I'm not going to expand on whether that Aeval was well designed, whether it was more or less rational or if it lacked things or had to add others, I'm just going to say that it was in the right direction, that is, that we needed that evaluation agency. The strange thing - that's why Brecht's appointment comes well - is that I have to claim here the need for that agency or something similar to that agency but that it works as such. I say this because it would be enough to see the programmes of the United Nations of Cepal, the European Union and some autonomous communities - I think, for example, that of Euskadi - that for years they have had this evaluation agency that allows them, like any evaluation agency, to measure the effectiveness, efficiency of public policies and above all the fundamental, which is the quality of services provided to citizens. Therefore, from my point of view, it would have been enormously important before it was liquidated and dissolved to discuss the functions of an agency of this level, which I believe is very important. As you know very well, good governance, often said in the United Nations office, is based on three things basically: participation, transparency and evaluation of public policies. What does that mean for a country like ours? Firstly, a major political issue, which is the very responsibility of the strategies that governments have in public policies that have to do, I insist, with quality. Secondly, the importance of governance and administration reform. Regular evaluation of public policies improves our public management, improves our management, generates greater quality in our public function and leads us, above all, to the possibility and the effort to transform public management according to the interests of citizens. But it is also a magnificent tool to prevent corruption, to prevent corruption in the very design of public policies, in the cycle of such public policies. It prevents it, makes it more difficult and more controllable. Finally, the effort to update the administration itself, fundamentally, because those of us who believe in the public sector also believe in the importance of reforming the public administration itself and its qualification. The public administration is highly qualified in such programmes. It is true that from the crisis it can be said that the work of Aeval was greatly weakened. A paradox that always has this capitalist system that has to do with public policies and public services is that when they are needed most they are not and when they are not needed so much they do not take advantage to make serious reforms that really strengthen them. In other words, public policies always end up paying for the austerity policies of the Government itself. We all know that the cyclical functioning of the capitalist economy is one of its own and that social policies also interact in that cyclical functioning. For many of us, the key to public policy, what is called the social state, is its ability to intervene in the cycle and, above all, when bad times come to neutralize the most harmful social effects of such economic policies. And we have now seen very clearly that, that at the time of expansion, it was not thoroughly played out by reforming and working on our public services by making them more general and when the crisis comes, all are cuts, adjustments and mechanisms that end up paying the usual ones. That is, when public policies are needed they are not there and when they are less needed they are not used to turn them into positive. From this perspective, I insist, the greater stabilization of an economic system is its strong public spending and the greater social stabilization of a country is its social spending. Nothing makes a country stronger than having a state of well-being developed, harmonious, powerful, redistributing and being able to actively intervene in the economic cycle. And it is a pity - I conclude - that it would not have been important to have an evaluation here in this Parliament? I think that Mr Garicano once told you - as the press said - he once told you something like that they had to evaluate austerity policies and their social consequences. Would it not have been important to have a report on an assessment of economic and social policies? Would it not have been important to bring here a serious report on the social and economic consequences of labour reform, an assessment of these policies? At least we would have learned from an independent body that would have brought these kinds of consequences here. Would it not have been important, as is done for example in the United States, to have made an assessment of corruption and its consequences on public policies, the cost to public policies of corruption? Don't be fooled, that's what you avoid when you don't have a public policy evaluation agency. It was probably the biggest flaw in the legislation of the Socialist Party: it did not make this assessment of public policies reside here in Parliament. And I have already announced that we will bring a bill that will make this Parliament have the power to have independent, secure, adjusted and rigorous reports on public policies from a public policy evaluation agency worthy of that name and at the service of the general interests of the country, which are, for us, those of its social majorities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Monereo. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Monereo, I will begin my speech by clarifying what seems obvious, but which is, in the end, generally known to this House and is that the work of evaluating public policies in the Spanish State, as in any modern state in our environment, has numerous bodies that constantly carry out this type of evaluation of public policies both from the budgetary and economic-financial point of view and from quality management; and also has laws that regulate this work and that increasingly tend to control and transparency, which is absolutely fundamental in this area. The improvement of the functioning of public administrations in decision-making on the basis of comprehensive and contrasting information is also a necessary effort to ensure quality in the provision of public services and at the same time to ensure that all this is compatible with the objectives of budgetary stability which form part of the project of a Spain integrated into the European economic and monetary union. In this crisis, in the crisis we have been through, in the very long and very harsh crisis, the initiatives of the People's Party Government have been several in this regard. I would like to quote here as a reminder, but that is necessary when we address these issues, which in 2013 promoted the creation of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, Airef. We have also developed, in normative terms, Law 39/2015 on the common administrative procedure of public administrations, whereby the Government promotes ex ante and ex post evaluation since, together with the duty to continuously review the adaptation of the legislation to the principles of good regulation, the obligation is imposed to periodically evaluate the application of the rules in force in order to verify whether they have met the objectives pursued and whether the cost and burden derived from them is justified and adequately assessed. The outcome of this evaluation is reflected in a public annual report adopted by the Council of Ministers, which reflects the degree of compliance with the previous year's annual regulatory plan. On the other hand, the Government Act requires each department to report on the normative impact analysis with a mandatory evaluation content and in particular the inclusion of a system for the subsequent evaluation of the implementation of the standard. In addition, in the same year that the Airef was created, we passed the Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance, the first time that a regulation of transparency and good governance is adopted in this House, since when we arrived at the Government in 2011 there was no regulation that would force the Administration to develop its work in a transparent environment that would allow citizens to know the details of the government's action. We have adopted this regulation, we have been pioneers in doing so, and thereby contribute to restoring confidence in the institutions and improving the quality of our democracy. By the way, from there we also create the portal of transparency, where the budgetary balance of all the public administrations of Spain is transferred month by month. This surely makes us the country that offers the most information from its public accounts in a more open and accessible way. There is no country in the world that makes public every month the implementation of the State budget and of each of the autonomous communities, and that quarterly is making a consolidated of the local administrations. That is the summary of the Government's initiatives that we need to continue to improve, and hence the investment agreements between the People's Group and the Citizens' Group that were placed in the document '150 commitments to improve Spain' that both groups signed and that gave rise to the formation of the current Government from the appointment as President of Don Mariano Rajoy. It is good that a Member of the Podemos Group goes up to the rostrum to test the quality of that commitment between Citizens and the People's Party. It is a way of verifying the health of these commitments; commitments that are good, alive and developing in a normative manner. That is what we are moving forward in terms of administrative changes, because it is an administrative change that has been done with the Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies, which has become another type of body today integrated into the structure of the Secretary of State for Civil Service, as are also the officials who were carrying out their task in the former Aeval. We are therefore talking about an administrative transformation resulting from a political commitment that we are fulfilling as many other political commitments. That this morning I reiterate the degree of fulfilment of those political commitments is not bad, because today we are talking about other things, about distancing and cooling. It is well in Podemos' interest in the development of investment agreements, but I do not know exactly what that interest is about because I will remind you that your group promoted a motion of censure a few months ago in this House; therefore, the interest in the political stability of this country is the right one, to understand us. I am sure that your political group is fascinated by other parameters of stability that are not shared by the People's Party Government. In this connection, I would also like to say that we have continued to develop our commitments; commitments among which I will highlight the one included in the stability programme of the Kingdom of Spain before the European bodies in order to continue the evaluation and quality policies that the General Administration of the State undertakes in terms of analysis of the commitment that is known as the control of public expenditure, the revision of that control of public expenditure; a comprehensive and independent review of public expenditure, the spending review, and so has been collected by the stability programme 2017-2020 sent to the European Commission on 2 April. This process of reviewing public expenditure has already begun. The first step was the adoption by the Council of Ministers on 26 January of an action plan for the revision of the subsidy expenditure of the general government as a whole entrusted to the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, Airef, which is implementing that programme. Anyway, Mr. Monereo, I sensed some confusion. You are confusing the orientation of the general policies of a country whose assessment is precisely the responsibility of this House. It has come to determine how useful public deficit correction policies have been, but that is not the case with internal government agencies, that is a function of this House. It is like saying that the responsibility of one Government is only the reform of administrative procedures. That is not the responsibility of a Government, it is much more than that, it is the general orientation of our country's economic policy. You have identified it with the orientation of a country's general economic policy, which is the reduction of the public deficit, the control of the indebtedness of its administrations. Is that going to be done by an internal agency of the Administration? Mr Monereo, I think you are confusing the different levels, the roles of what is the responsibility of a public administration and what are the organs proper to a democracy, which are also known. You've confused him here. Do you really think that this policy, which your group normally calls a policy of austereicide, is going to be done by an internal evaluation agency of the Administration? It is an interesting political debate, Mr Monereo. I'm sure the replica will shed some light on it. There has never been such transparency in the action of a government, in the action of an administration; there has never been such transparency in Spain. If you come up here and show me that at another time there has been, that there have been laws that forced all our administrations to exercise government action with that level of transparency, then I will correct the meaning of my conclusion, but that is not it. We must continue to make progress in these terms, as we have done with that State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policy and Quality of Services, with the strengthening of all those areas that prevent any abuse of power that may occur in the field of public administrations, whose control and guarantee is the very essence of democracy. I insist, Mr Monereo, that you do not entrust to an agency of the Administration what is proper to the bodies of the democratic representation of popular sovereignty which takes place in this House and in the Spanish Senate, in the parliaments of a state of autonomy, such as the Spanish State, which takes place in the full control of the government action of our local administrations. It is in these areas where the analysis and evaluation of not only economic but social policies in Spain is responsible, by the way, that today, through the reduction of the public deficit in all our administrations, they are allowing Spain to guarantee its levels of welfare state as we had never done before in our country. The first test is in the public pension system, in that 50 billion euros increase in that function 10 of the public spending of our public administrations that among all, public administrations and political groups in this House, we have an obligation to settle, to make progress and to give it the maximum reliability and confidence for the future. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u165	Thank you, Minister. Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u166	I am no one to evaluate the policy of alliances of the Government and its health; it would be too much. I have already seen a part of that this morning and yesterday and I just take note that that was an agreement, although I have some doubt that Citizens agree to turn this agency into a general sub-direction, I have some doubt, but we will see that next week when we discuss the issue. Therefore, I am not going to enter into discussions about the government's alliance policy or the wonderful health of its alliance with Citizens, which we all admire. The second question is about confusion. Surely I am confused, it will not be the first time I have been confused in this life, but I think we have a serious problem and it is that you do not understand well - I think - or in the same way what a public policy evaluation agency is, and it is of some importance to understand it. Today the evaluation of public policies is almost a science, it is discussed in all the chairs, it is super-formalized and there are high level and quality manuals that are applied, it is continuously improving and articulating, especially with the ability to measure because what it is about is whether or not we are right in public policies. In this case it is a very simple thing; I do not say that the government has no authority to evaluate better or worse, I do not say that, what it does not have is a unified authority to do so, which is different, that is an agency. A public policy evaluation agency is essentially an instrument of the Government itself to decentralize and manage in a more efficient way what it used to do loose agencies, and to be more controllable by citizens. I set an example - and I hope you will forgive me - that I know for reasons that do not come to the case. There is a public policy evaluation agency in Euskadi that works reasonably - I say this so that you see that it is not a political issue in my case - and that issues continuous reports on public policies that the government makes. What does that allow the Basque Parliament, which allows the Basque administration and allows Basque citizenship? To know the effectiveness, to control that effectiveness and to know how to improve these public policies because it is, on the one hand, the effectiveness, that is, to achieve the objective of these public policies, and then efficiency, that is, whether public policies are efficient with the resources used. That is something so important that it costs me a bit of work - I say frankly - to have to justify it here. Not seeing the need for a state public policy evaluation agency is not only against almost all countries that one knows more or less directly, but it has very serious effects on the evaluation of such public policies. I would like to give another example, the Infrastructure Plan, the one of years ago, not the one of today. When this plan reaches the specific body, i.e. the one to which the evaluation is made, there is first an ex ante evaluation, i.e. before implementing social policy or infrastructure policy, it is discussed whether this plan is ex ante viable, it is discussed with the general criteria of the Administration itself or according to the pacts of the Administration itself with the European Union in problems, for example, the climate crisis or the ozone layer. If that is the case then, in the public policy cycle, it is possible to find mechanisms to adjust that plan and then to ask whether the enormous expenditure on infrastructure has been worth it. Could it have been done with less? Has it been socially effective? Who did it benefit? How did it get done? It's not that hard. That is what many of us are demanding when we go around and ask for assessments of the public policies we defend. That is what everyone does, from the Cepal to the United Nations or the European Union. I end up with a lot of speed so I don't get past the time. I believe that the underlying problem is whether or not it is politically worthwhile for the public to be well managed and socially seriously valued. That's what's at stake, in my opinion. Everything else is very keen to mess with one, but neither is one for those pranks. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Monereo. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, as Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Monereo, if you're not for those pranks, look at the others, with the amount of years we've been on these pranks and there we go. Of course, you are right in terms of what good management and transparent public management means to make it socially valued. Of course you're absolutely right. The reason is that what a Government does is to develop a programme; that programme is what I have briefly described, whose content its lordship has not criticized because that content, as I insisted, we did not have in previous stages. You will even be able to tell me, quite rightly, that I have been part of governments of earlier stages and we did not develop this regulation as is the Transparency and Good Government Act; frankly, we have made progress in terms of the creation of an independent tax liability authority. Today no one doubts that it is independent and that it is functionally within the scope of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service. No one would say that this authority is not independent. That works and that authority is now in charge of a review of public expenditure which the Government has committed to the European institutions in its stability programme, the first step of which is to review nothing more and nothing less than the total amount of subsidies given by all the public administrations in Spain. Isn't that evaluation? Aren't we developing that assessment, Your Honor? We are already developing it, but we must come up with content. One puts its contents and, of course, you sit in a seat as well as I do - I am also a Member other than a member of a government - because we have run for a general election; you represent millions of citizens in Spain and, therefore, with all legitimacy, you can make an assessment of the government's policy, the same one that gives me that popular mandate for which we have been chosen precisely to explain and defend before you and the whole of this House, that is, before the whole Spanish people, the government policies that we are developing. Therefore, you are fully legitimised, although in your second intervention it is as if you had lowered the value of that valuation. But I also have an obligation to explain to your honor, to your parliamentary group and to the whole of this House, the meaning of why an agency within the public administration has been changed by another body in compliance with an investiture pact which, by the way, I have concluded this morning in good health, contrary to what is being said. Today we have talked about a point of development of the investment pact which we are fulfilling satisfactorily on both sides and which the Podemos Group is interested in. All right, you, as Spokesman at this time of the Podemos Group, are really interested in the development and implementation of this investment pact and in the administrative instrumentation from where it is being implemented, but, I insist, Mr Monereo, we fully agree. How can we not agree if we have promoted the norm? These laws are in force - the Administrative Procedure Act and the spending review, which is being done by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority - and that creates an obligation for all administrations. If they are, let's face it. I want to end by recognizing the interest of Podemos, which I understood this morning, in two areas. Firstly, the investment pact, Mr Girauta, which enjoys good health and which we are developing and implementing. And secondly, it has given me the opportunity to explain all the regulatory change. And I fully agree with the last statement, the evaluation of public policies has exactly the same meaning as its design and implementation. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u169	Thank you, Minister. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Minister for Employment and Social Security on measures to be taken by the Government to ensure decent and quality working conditions in the digital economy. [[File number 172/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u170	We turn to the next item: An urgent appeal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister for Employment and Social Security on the measures the Government intends to take to ensure decent and quality working conditions in the digital economy. For your defence, Mrs Peña Camarero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, today, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we want to move forward on the future of employment, because globalisation, digitisation and artificial intelligence are changing the labour market we knew; changes that affect the productive model but also labour relations. This requires us as a country a determined commitment to take advantage of the new reality, to take advantage of the changes to build an inclusive labour market with public policies to ensure that no one stays out of this productive model; to take advantage of these changes also to correct the dysfunctions of the labour reform of this government, which has shown in these six years that they have not served for the Spanish citizens to have a sufficient salary and a reasonable expectation of life. Here lies the responsibility that they should already be exercising from the Government, because these challenges also entail social changes that must bring public policies hand in hand that guarantee social equity, but at this time of change this Government comes with the task without doing, without having prepared the lesson and I am sorry to say, Minister, that in today's world this country cannot be allowed to repeat itself. We cannot allow ourselves to repeat what has happened in previous labor revolutions, to stay out, on the sidelines, and to lag behind. Are we ready for the new digital age? Reality more than data, Minister, tell us no. We always go from behind in all movements, in all revolutions. This government has also achieved a record: to be below all European indicators. Below in the average of connectivity, in human capital formed in digitization, in the use of the Internet and in digital skills. Since we are not prepared, this Government should at least share what the Socialists are proposing, which is nothing more than taking advantage of the benefits and avoiding the risks, but above all facing the consequences in this different way of dealing with labour relations. With regard to the consequences, the last sentences speak of precariousness in the new labour relations and one thing must be clarified; precariousness has not been invented by the digital economy, the so-called "collaborative economy", because there are two actors who are not new; they are, in spite of the workers of this country, the central axis of the labour policy of this government and have been the travelling companions of the minister during the last six years: precariousness and false autonomous. As far as precariousness is concerned, it is not new that in these six years this government has been well given to precariousness of work. Call workers, the 'kellys', messengers and employees of household chores know well what wage devaluation, temporaryity, partiality and illegal overtime are. Yes, those 8.8 million extra illegal hours a week that were made last year, Minister. With the abolition of these illegal hours, 235,000 full-time jobs would have been created. With this social security fraud, nearly EUR 2 billion has been lost. And the second companion, the false self-employed, the biggest fraud perpetrated by a government on its citizens, their obsession with entrepreneurship or better called impoverishment; yes people who lend their total employment relationship to a company and to whom they are obliged to discharge themselves in the RETA; neither the statute nor the agreement applies to them, they are not entitled to vacations or permits and, in the event of termination, they will not be entitled to unemployment, but they are obliged to pay a share of self-employed persons in social security, VAT and the IAE. This widespread miscontrol of labour reform does not begin with the digital economy. This new model is not a cause of precariousness. The progressive subcontracting to reduce labour costs and rights, the flexibility of contractual conditions is a constant, and since 2012 this comes to us as a series. For example, sectors such as construction, private health, the building cleaning sector or the media carry out their activities with self-employed workers or Trade, when they are actually workers. Moreover, we could point out cases where the employer fired his workers to hire them as self-employed through a commercial contract, forcing them to discharge themselves as self-employed. We also assist in the use of co-operativeism as a tool to reduce costs and replace stable employment by self-employment and precarious employment. We all know examples in the meat sector, in which the companies, once they exhausted the possibilities of temporary recruitment or via ETT, offered these workers the only alternative to discharge themselves as co-operatives in the RETA working in the same post, under the same conditions, but without any rights and charging up to 300 euros less. And now the last thing, digital platforms with distributors with a Trade contract. Following the work of the Labour Inspectorate, what has already been reported is that these riders are, in fact, self-employed workers without any capacity to negotiate their working conditions; workers without rights, workers without protection. The arrival of the digital platforms has been the drop that has filled the glass; the drop that has filled the vase of the exploitation and the exponential increase in the use of the RETA and the figure of the Trade so that the workers, especially young people, as the only alternative to the lack of employment and encouraged by the flat rate are looking there for life; workers who provide a bike or a motorcycle are discharged in the RETA with the only idea of staying, leaving, in many cases, when the discount on the tariff is finished and cannot face the payment. This, in addition to harming workers, also creates difficulties for self-employed people who normally carry out their business and business activities and who see how, in many cases, what is created is unfair competition. This is not just said by the Socialist Party, it is also said by the associations of self-employed people and it is clearly exemplified by the high turnover of self-employed people in social security, which reflects that they are not entrepreneurs with a business but people who enter and exit the system for other reasons. The number of employees in the special scheme for self-employed persons, until November 2017, stood at around 635 000, while the number of employees in the special scheme fell to 620 000. Madam Minister, you make the bill and you will see that there is some dysfunction. This is also detrimental to social security, since most of these discharges are collected and received at flat rates, so the collection obtained by social security and the State is very low. In fact, the cost of these flat rates amounts to more than EUR 1.5 billion per year, which contributes to increasing the system's huge deficit. Because, Minister, remember that freelancers, unfortunately, do not contribute every month, but pensioners do have the right to collect their pension every month. All platforms can be a path of economic growth, but we cannot allow them to become a new niche of job insecurity. In view of what I have seen, and the truth is that we have seen little, not to say nothing, Minister, can you explain to us what this government intends to do to ensure decent and quality living conditions in the digital economy? Do you have decisions in your plans that will help to distribute just the extra profits of productivity that comes through technology? Do you have in your plans to bet on more effective active employment policies in training, digitisation and guidance or help with employment? After six years of cutting in training and having thrown hundreds of career counsellors on the street, are you aware that training is the cornerstone of the coming economy? Do you have in your plans passive policies that adequately protect workers from the risk of unemployment? It seems not, and that is that this government should - and does not - lead these foundations of the digital economy; moreover, we have asked all groups in this Parliament in the Employment Committee. What I can do is to advance the socialist position, which speaks of repealing its labour reform, of creating a new Workers' Statute, which thinks it necessary to reflect on how to modify the keys to the labour market with the sole aim of improving the quality of the employment that occurs, with the boldness of putting the challenges on the table but always, always, with a view to the quality of employment. So, Minister, you have a task and you have already suspended the partials in the trapping of your entrepreneurship policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u172	Thank you, Mrs Peña. On behalf of the Government, I call on the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for bringing to the House this morning the impact that digitisation will have on the work environment and the present and future of our country. It is a process that cannot be dealt with in isolation but on which we have to reflect and give a joint response. The analysis has to be comprehensive because that change does not come alone, that 4.0 revolution of digital transformation changes the productive processes and moreover at high speed, it will change the business management and also, of course, the labor relations. There will be more repetitive tasks that end up doing the machines, but also, in parallel - and we have to put it into value - new professions will emerge, some of which are already underway, such as big data analysts, cybersecurity experts, mobile app developers or computer architects. Some of these professions ten years ago did not exist and, according to some European reports we have, eight out of ten young people in twenty or thirty years will work in digital jobs that we do not know or do not know today. We therefore need to adapt from now on to that reality. Moreover, the European Union recognises that there are 900 000 vacancies at the moment in all the countries of the Union that are not covered by their high technical training. In our country there are companies where 24% of vacancies take longer than necessary precisely because of the high technical qualification required. This phenomenon of digitization, which is a reality today in our country, accompanied by another very profound phenomenon that is also taking place throughout the world, such as the process of interconnection and globalization, makes the new realities of business management and the world of work rapidly changing. And this we have to see not as an uncertainty, but as a great opportunity. First, because globalization is allowing many countries in the world to emerge from poverty; moreover, the world met the goal of the first United Nations Millennium Development Goal in mid-2015, despite the fact that the time horizon was later. That doesn't mean that we don't have a task ahead of us, that we have a lot and that we have great challenges. Why? Because this new reality is producing tensions, tensions in the productive fabric, with the growing competition of manufactures and services from different parts of the world, but tensions too - and you have made reference to this - in the national regulatory frameworks, because the legislation has to adapt to these new labour realities. The first reflection I want to make is that any industrial revolution has been accompanied throughout our recent history by a pattern of improvement of opportunities and working conditions in the world. We need to prepare ourselves for these new challenges, be alert and also change the rules, if necessary. But I want to say this morning that, far from worrying too much or seeing it as a great uncertainty, we must send society a message of confidence that together we can face this new challenge that we have in the present and give that battle, that of digitisation, because, in Spain, we are not going to lose any chance of entrepreneurship nor are we going to let workers' rights be undermined by that new reality that is the digital economy. Therefore, here I ask that we be able to add the best of ourselves. We are working intensively in the social dialogue with the social partners and also with the autonomous communities to respond to this enormous challenge, which is not Spanish, is European and is also, if you want, global. The Digital Agenda for Europe - I have been heard on some occasion already in this House - clearly states that for every two new jobs we lose in the real economy five will be created in the digital economy. That is the great opportunity for Spain. We are working on this task from Spain and also with Europe. Some things are going well in our country, even though you cast sophrases of demagogy in your intervention. Spain leads today, whether it likes it or not, thanks to the efforts of Spanish society and the labour reform of the People's Party government, job creation in Europe. Who would say in 2011? 3.7% more, for example, than Germany, which is the second most employment creates, and up to five times more than a country as important and neighbouring as France or even Italy. We have achieved 2017 that in our country more than 611,000 jobs are created, 1,700 jobs per day, which encourages us to continue to have confidence in a growing country that creates opportunities and every day better opportunities, although we still have a lot to do. The economy in our country, the recovery, is inclusive. Jobs are being created in all groups, in all autonomous communities and in all economic sectors and, of course, also in the digital economy. The digital economy is growing strongly in our country. Moreover, it is one of the sectors that has created the most jobs. Since recovery, the rise is more than 19%. Today there are more people working in the ICT sector in Spain than ever before in our economic history and we have also been able to turn that into a potential, because the jobs created in ICT are mostly of high quality. What's the challenge ahead? Be prepared, trained, with new skills, to respond to this new digital challenge in Spain. We have worked on the social dialogue going ahead and in 2017 we launched a training plan in digital skills, as never before in our history, of 60 million euros for this year 2018, according to the autonomous communities, so that we do not lose any opportunity during this year in the digital economy by high competition or high technological level. Therefore, Spain does not go behind, Spain is at the forefront, at the head of the response to the digital economy throughout Europe. You talk to me about low quality in employment. Your Honor, in 2017, for each temporary job, according to the EPA, two indefinite jobs were created. We have been creating indefinite employment for forty-eight consecutive months, as never before in our economic history. Today, the basis of employment is indefinite employment. Three out of four people who work have an indefinite contract and in the digital world the rate of indefinite employment exceeds the national average by 14 points. Is there work to be done? No doubt, Your Honor, among other things, because there are 3.5 million people who are unemployed and we have to act together as soon as possible. But don't talk about the digital economy as an economy that doesn't give opportunities and takes away rights, because it's not true. It gives opportunities with intensity and also gives stable employment. What we have to do is to avoid fraud that distorts the rule or acts illegally. That is why, in 2012, when we arrived at the Government, we launched a plan to combat fraud that has yielded excellent results: 500 000 irregular jobs that have sprung up, 6700 fictitious companies that are now being decommissioned because they were defrauding Social Security and converting 345,000 contracts badly registered as temporary to indefinite, which were what they were. And all this has an economic impact on the public coffers of more than EUR 20.4 billion. Here are the data, and the inspection works independently and professionally; and it also does so by indicating, by the way, the European Parliament in its resolution of June 2017, in a particular way in the collaborative economy, to which you have referred. That is why we have done our job since the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate and the inspectors and sub-inspectors have done their job. After making the corresponding visits to complaints that have appeared in the Social Security fraud box or complaints from trade unions or workers, the General Treasury has been requested to discharge close to seven hundred workers who were falsely registered as self-employed workers in the general scheme. Therefore, fraud is pursued in any sector and any day of the week. We are working on these issues, including the collaborative economy, with the social partners to make a real and serene analysis so that no opportunity for entrepreneurship is lost - I insist - but that this does not in any way undermine workers' rights in the field of social dialogue and also at European level. In the new social pillar of rights, we are expressly concerned by all countries about the adequacy of those atypical workers who are neither clearly a general common system nor, indeed, self-employed workers. And we are working in Europe to give you a joint response. We are concerned about the digital economy and the new jobs of the future. A year ago, the social partners and experts worked with the ILO on the new jobs we want for the future, with the highest quality. Right now we are going to set up a working group, derived from that previous work, which is the white paper on the digital jobs of the future. And we are doing so because we deeply believe that this digital economy is a great opportunity for Spain and Europe. Your Honor, Europe is not only a geographical location; today it is also the best place on the planet to guarantee social rights. I encourage you, from the Socialist Party, to join the Spanish experts, the social partners, those new challenges and challenges that we have: the digital economy and the best jobs and the best rights for the future of our workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u175	Thank you. Madam Minister, it is true that we can assess the impact of the digital revolution on the labour market. These advances in robotics, these advances in the platform economy are analysed with studies such as that of the OECD, which says that in this country we will lose 12% of the existing work. Therefore, something will have to be done. It is true that technology is also capable of generating new jobs, new opportunities and new jobs that we did not even imagine today. Technologies create jobs, of course, but what proportion of jobs do they create? What proportion of jobs do they destroy? And most importantly, Mrs Báñez, what kind of jobs do you create, what is the impact on our system and what is the impact on our society? He was talking about two out of five; of course, this has not been invented by the digital economy, this has already been invented by the People's Party with its labor reform, with which they took a stable eight-hour daily job and turned it into three: partial, temporary and precarious. For that the digital economy did not need to arrive, the People's Party has already arrived in 2012 to set it in motion. The question is what we can do as a country and what you can do as a government, and I think the first thing you have to do is put the batteries because British, French, Italian, German, all have a plan on the table, measures already adopted, such as the right to French disconnection, and we have nothing at all. But it's true, don't go crazy, there are three things you can do from now on. Firstly, with regard to training; secondly, with regard to the creation of a public income, and thirdly, with regard to the change in labour legislation. Firstly, training, because what we do know, we are clear and all the experts are clear, is that new jobs require new skills, new skills, which are complex, and this Government, through what it has commented, is not able to recognize that the important thing is to invest in human capital and training in this new generation of workers. It is also true that there will be a generation to which it will be easier to adapt, but I have not heard you say anything at all about those people over the age of 50 to whom this Government has also withdrawn the benefit. Secondly, I also told him that they can act from now on by strengthening social protection so that no one stays away. This is a very simple thing: this Government should stop vetoing the parliamentary development of the popular legislative initiative put forward by the trade unions for the creation of that vital minimum income which is going to be fundamental already in the present but also in the future of our society. Thirdly, labour reform must be buried because the productive model of this country cannot continue to regard human resources as a factor of production without more, without labour rights, without social rights, and if we maintain this rule, we will be left out again. The truth is that I have avoided talking about data in my speech and was also looking for you to stop hiding in the data and reports that prepare you in your office and empathize with what happens on the street. Well, I didn't want to use data, but since you used it, I also have a few: 3.7 million people in unemployment, a 90 % temporaryity, it takes thirty-five contracts for each stable job created, 6 million workers have a salary less than 650 euros and the average income has fallen since you govern 610 euros a year; one, two, twenty or the data you want to continue to credit the frustration of the working people in this country. So, Minister, we prefer more decent work and less data and less numbers, because with all this - already to finish - what they have done is to get everyone worried. It would also be good for us to call things by their name because what happens here is not a collaborative economy, there is no equality in a collaboration between those who provide their services and the entrepreneur; so let's start calling it otherwise, be it digital economy, digital platform economy or as you think it is appropriate. And it has managed to worry everyone, because in these fears coincide the millennial exploited with the people over fifty who feed the lists of long-term unemployed. Here digital employees converge at 5 euros an hour with the industrial workers to whom their companies have relocated. In the anguish of work all women forced to choose between profession or family together with false interns, together with false self-employed, along with false apprentices and part-time hired women who serve beer or clean full-time rooms share a trench. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what a better gift for this sixth birthday of labor reform that we end up with and mark a new legislation for a new era of leaving no one out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, this government is very proud that the efforts of Spanish society and the labour reform that we launched in 2012 have made Spain today a country that creates intense employment and leads the creation of jobs in the euro area. This reform is an instrument that has given and is giving such good results in Spain that it has been copied by Mexico, partly by Italy, by France and has just been launched in a similar way in Argentina. Your Honor, when so many countries of different political colors and different parts of the world are implementing flexicurity reforms like the Spanish one, it will be because we have done something right in this country among all, ladies and gentlemen. I am surprised that the Socialist Party is insistently coming to this House with demagogy to teach us employment lessons because when they ruled they sent 3.5 million Spaniards to unemployment, raised the youth unemployment rate from 18 to 50 % and broke the opportunities of many men and women throughout the country. That is why the Spaniards sent them in the elections to their home so that others would come to help Spanish society to move forward and that is why the People's Party came. [[Applauds]] Look, Your Honor, you'll like it or not, but Spain today is Spain's employment. We know that much remains to be done, but it is with the confidence that the 3 300 000 unemployed in Spain will find opportunities in the near future; the confidence that today three out of every four working people have an indefinite contract, rather than at the beginning of the crisis; the confidence that recovery in Spain is social because 97% of the jobs recovered have been full-time, 97%, Your Honor, and also because women are working in our country as never before in our history and 5 500 000 women with stable contracts, as never in our recent history. We want to give opportunities to those who are missing: young people, women, the long-term unemployed. We have focused on training, of course we have. Look, in training in digital skills, EUR 60 million has been allocated to train older, young and middle-aged people with autonomous communities in this country to have an opportunity in this new digital economy. By the way, for young people under the age of 30 - that half of those who are unemployed do not even have compulsory secondary education - we have promoted dual vocational training through the training and learning contract, which has given young people many opportunities since 2012. Well, we agreed in the social dialogue that this training and learning contract could be given additional financial aid above the contract wage to a young man of EUR 430. With this, a young man who in Spain today could have a training and learning contract charging out of salary 1000 can't do it, you know why? Because of their stubbornness and because they do not understand how young people with more jobs, better jobs and more training can move forward. [[Applauds]] That is what is happening with the Socialist Party today, which is hurting young people. When they do not like the social pacts, the pacts of the citizens' parliamentary groups and the People's Party, they are able to harm young people, who have no jobs, who do not form, who do not pay more than 1000 euros with the first salary and who do not enter the labour market, only because of their ideology and their stubbornness. That is why they deserve to remain in opposition. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: What barbarity, what barbarity!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u178	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u179	We turn to the next item: Motion for an urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the measures the Government intends to take to correct the wage gap between men and women. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is that, after listening to certain interventions by some'member' of the government, it is difficult to move some constructive and pro-active spirit. [[Rumors.- Mrs. Bonilla Dominguez: My mother!]] In any case, let's try it because we have already demonstrated it throughout our history. At last week's plenary session, when we presented an inquiry... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u181	Wait a minute, Mrs. Cancela. Quiet, please. I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u182	When we presented an urgent inquiry into what measures the State Government intends to take to combat the wage gap, we put on the table a series of labour market data. On the one hand, the salary structure survey of the National Statistical Institute, the Decil survey of primary employment wages, notes the stagnation in the correction of the wage gap between women and men: 23% of the average annual wage for women is lower than for men, women earn €414.4 per month less than the average wage for men, 18.4% of women had average wages below or below the inter-professional minimum wage and in the wage range below €15 000 per year, women have 40.3% compared to 20.7% of men. According to the EPA, in the fourth quarter of 2017, 46% of the employed persons are women and they account for 75% of part-time work. This discriminatory statistics of women in the workplace, transferred to the public pension system, puts us in a gender gap of 38%. We will be able to disagree on labour market data, which is legitimate. But the fundamental question and the real question that must concern us is: is there a wage gap? I believe that at this point we are all in agreement. Therefore, if there is a wage gap, we have to correct certain data and certain labour market situations such as horizontal segregation and vertical segregation, what we call the glass ceiling. We will have to talk about a lower rate of activity for women, a higher rate of unemployment, greater career breaks, greater difficulty in accessing, permanence and promoting the labour market; the burden of taking on family care tasks because co-responsibility is not such; the over-limiting of working hours without economic compensation, and part-time working days that really hide are full-time days; the non-equivalence of paternity and maternity leave, etc. If that is the case, our obligation - of all, ladies and gentlemen - is to put in place sufficient measures to really fight, to remove obstacles and impediments to ensuring equality in the labour market for women and men. We therefore propose the need for a comprehensive and cross-cutting legal framework in its professional promotion, in access to training, which does not entail a burden on family responsibilities, that reconciliation and co-responsibility measures be put in place and that the State - the State - assume and develop policies to support families and care for dependency. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a wage gap in wage terms, such as overtime, which reaches 79%; wage supplements at 30%; and overtime at 36%. This motion only seeks that we all fight to remove the obstacles that prevent its correction and eradication. What we intend with this motion is that it does not happen the same thing that happened a year ago, when we tabled a motion that was approved by all the parliamentary groups in this House, but a year later law has not been introduced in the Congress of Deputies. It has therefore not been a political priority of this Government, and the most serious thing is that we do not believe that there is a political will to do so either. That is precisely why I wanted to say to you that with regard to today's motion and the considerations and amendments made by the various parliamentary groups, we accept, of course, the amendment tabled by the PDECAT concerning the need for or opportunity for prior agreement in the process of social dialogue. We believe in social dialogue and believe that it needs to be strengthened. But there is an important question of reflection on this. The social dialogue consists of three fundamental steps: representation by the majority trade union organizations of this country representing workers, the most representative business organizations and the Government. The Government has therefore been able to bring into the framework of the social dialogue a legislative initiative resulting from this House's majority agreement - rather than unanimous - to debate and present a text on the elimination of the wage gap in this country. And that didn't happen. So it's a matter of wanting because power, they can, if they want. We also accept the amendments tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea because they also come from the previous motion that was tabled at the time and, although they reproduce in some way what was agreed there, in this case it is not enough but it comes to reinforce the approach that we all share. We also know that one of the fundamental problems in eradicating the wage gap is the opacity of wages, and therefore to focus on their transparency and knowledge of pay conditions in order to be able to transmit this information to the representation of workers and to be able to exercise more control over their compliance with the regulatory framework is key. In that sense, we will certainly agree. [[The lady]] With regard to the proposal put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group, we agree with the specific proposals put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. We agree that the corporate obligation to communicate information to workers and their representatives on the amount of remuneration and its components is a good measure. We agree that wage audits in companies with more than 250 workers provide greater transparency; we agree that the amendment of Royal Decree 7313, in relation to the registration and deposit of collective agreements, to incorporate equality plans into that register strengthens the position; and we also agree on the transparency and wealth of knowledge of official statistics, but we have a discrepancy as to the approach, which is directly related to the mention made to the social dialogue process. We believe that, regardless of the social dialogue, a law can be agreed in this House in relation to the active and definitive fight against the wage gap, because it is not only necessary, it is not only fair and equitable, but it is also what we have agreed previously. I do not think that the work in this House is incompatible with what is taking place in the process of social dialogue. In conclusion, Madam President, this week we have remembered and celebrated the 130th anniversary of the birth of Clara Campoamor. He said, defending the right to women's suffrage: You cannot build a democracy with only half the citizenship. Today, in the middle of the twenty-first century, we strongly claim those words. Discrimination and the precariousness of women in the labour market do not make us a fairer, but more unjust society, with a much weaker democracy. It is in our hands, ladies and gentlemen, that this is different. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u183	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Sorlí Fresquet is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group, in turn, in which she will also fix a position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u184	Thank you, President. Before we begin, I would like to endorse the amendments tabled by the Members of the Joint Group to this text. Compromís would like to know who lies when the People's Party talks about wage gaps, if Minister Fatima Báñez lies when she says that much is being done, or if the president lies when he says that there's no need to get involved. We want to know who lies, if the Minister of Employment lies or if the President of the Government lies, that we do not know which of the two things is worse. If we stick to the data, management is a real disaster. Women account for almost 30% less than men, but not even public enterprises meet the wage gap; nor are women treated equally in public enterprises, which are kept with money from all citizens. 80% of public enterprises fail to comply with the Equality Act on Boards of Directors, and this is a wage gap for today and a pension gap for tomorrow; it is economic inequality for today's women and inequality for tomorrow's women, however many complements they then apply. Civio was doing the numbers last week. I will read them in case you have not read them: Express Post, seven men, two women; Prado National Museum, seven men, two women; Official Credit Institute, seven men, two women; AENA airports, eleven men, two women; AENA International Development, four men, two women. And the figures that have to do with Renfe are also not much better: Adif High Speed, eight men, three women; Renfe Travelers, four men, one woman; Renfe Goods, five men, one woman; Pecova Renfe Goods, six men, one woman; Renfe Manufacturing and Maintenance, six men, one woman; Renfe Rental of Railway Material, zero women. If not only the Executive meets parity, I don't know what we expect. So it could continue up to 110 companies paid with public money, with money of all and all, that do not reach 40% of women in their management teams, but that is that 18 do not have any women. Do they still think they're doing a lot to fight the pay gap or do they prefer not to get involved in it? What they're doing is illegal and unconstitutional. It is illegal, since it violates the Equality Act, article 54 of which literally states: The designations of the General Administration of the State and public bodies linked or dependent on representatives shall be made in accordance with the principle of the balanced presence of women and men. It is illegal because it also violates Article 23 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It is unconstitutional because it goes against article 14 of that sacrosanct Constitution which they defend so much when they are interested in it. We know that women do not care that we reach the spaces of power on equal terms, but it is their duty to comply with the law. So it seems clear who lies: the minister lies, unfortunately; she lies because her only policy in relation to the wage gap is to wash our face so that we can make nice speeches here; she lies because she knows that her parents do not think or want to get involved in that of the wage gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u185	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u186	Good afternoon. Mrs Cancela, with the affection that you know that I have, I must tell you that, in fact, when we studied your motion we thought it was incomplete, because it only limited itself to three very narrow aspects of the matter that we are dealing with. That is why, as you know, we have amended the same with fifteen proposals, by the way, each and every one of them unanimously adopted in this House. I want to explain part of the problem that we have in our country, a very serious problem that starts with a fact that seems irrelevant but that is very relevant, like when a Member says 'portavoza' a monumental mess in Spanish society is mounted. We have in Spain a problem of inequality that is not linguistic but is material and that has to do with half of the people we represent to Spanish society. It's called machismo and it's called inequality. [[Applauds]] That is why the problem is very serious, very serious. It is very serious and has to do with a structural part of the patriarchal society in which we live, which focuses primarily on the gender roles attributed to us by women and which are directly linked to a very sensitive subject, which is care, which is that other part of the activity to which we women devote a substantial part of our time. Indeed, there is one aspect in which our country is a champion. I would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to deny once again Mrs Báñez, who - as we know - is so interested in the wage gap that she is not present today. Mrs. Báñez, the data you give are not certain. Spain does not descend on points of pay inequality but increases and we are one of the countries in which this pay gap between men and women has widened as a result of the crisis. Let us not cheat, because the calculation of retributive equality cannot be done for hours, we have to do it precisely in the annual compendium to see how care operates, to see how variable complements operate, and to see how absolute opacity in retributive matters operates. Therefore, Mrs Báñez - absent - do not lie to Spanish society again. It's not true what you're saying. Indeed, we have an average wage gap of 23%, but on many professional scales it can reach and exceed 30% and 34%. Therefore, they are missing the truth. Mrs Cancela, the women and men of this group are very happy because, as you know, next week, for the first time in the history of Spanish democracy, we are going to debate in this House the first law of equal pay, to change precisely those conditions that are mistreating and violating the fundamental rights of women workers in our country. [[Applauds]] As you know, we have amended this issue. I know that you - knowing where it comes from - place the emphasis on collective bargaining, but the problem is that we already have a law for eleven years that talks about collective bargaining and not only has it not been used to move forward but we are going backwards. That is why our amendments have to do with something fundamental. First of all, equality must be demanded in a compulsory manner and by law, and in addition, consequences must be imposed, and serious penalties must be imposed if employers, companies, fail to comply with it. Secondly, a fundamental element: Article 28 of the Workers' Statute has to be changed. It is an anomaly in Spain that let us not say that in the face of work of equal value we have to have equal pay, and that is why we understand that this has to be changed in our country in order to meet the parameters of the European Union. [[Applauds]] It is evidence that four years ago a recommendation on wage transparency was adopted and the People's Party and the minister - absent - have done nothing. She did not care about the equal pay of working women in that country, if not, she would have taken action. Then there are central elements that have to do with individual and collective information rights, both those of trade union representatives and individual rights. We do not share - and we amend it - that they are for companies of more than fifty workers who have company committees, no, no. Individual workers may have the right to obtain the remuneration of the partner, especially after a vain debate that you know, and the Constitutional Court has already told us that privacy is not violated in response to the request of the partner's salary information that we have next door. But we have to do many more things: we have to do wage audits and we have to change, as we ask, the legitimation and training of state feminist associations so that they can also be part of the process and defend the legitimate rights of working women. We must also do something that you have mentioned, which is part of your initiative and which is a demand of the feminist movement: we must compute once and for all in official statistics - as you ask - on employment and social protection. But we ask you one thing in the amendment: we also want the work that we women do in caring for in our country to be counted in the documents, in the budgets and in the satellite accounts, because, if not, we will remain invisible. I end up making an appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, on 8 March we have a mandate. We defend equal pay, we defend women's equality, we defend fundamental rights, we make that strike that we defend from our Confederal Group, which is a strike of employment, construction, consumption and, of course, care. Let us advance and assume equality always to guarantee fundamental rights in our peoples. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u187	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u188	Thank you, President. Very good morning. We are talking again about a gender gap, a wage gap, an inequality; we have been talking about it all morning and much in recent times. I have to tell you, first of all - President Rajoy said this morning - that for the People's Party the commitment to women is absolute. This is demonstrated by the work that we have done in the Government on job creation, women's job creation and employment for all, where this issue has undoubtedly been the highest priority for the Government of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the substance of the proposal, because, indeed, this is a very important issue, it is a matter of social justice, a matter that affects not only women, but the whole of society as a whole, because, in the end, we are talking about being able to take advantage of everyone's talent, talent without distinction as to gender. I am convinced that we all agree on this and that it must therefore be a battle of this Parliament and of all Members and of all Members. The wage gap responds to many factors and causes, but the first must certainly be the full incorporation of women into the labour market, and, ladies and gentlemen, there have never been more women than now working. The wage gap is at a historical minimum of 14%, even below the European average. I have heard a lot of data here from different Members. Ladies and gentlemen, agree. They have not been able to give a single equal figure on the part of the different spokespersons. Therefore, agree or, in any case, use the official data, which is the data used by the Minister and the President of the Government and, of course, the data that must be used responsibly. The full incorporation of women into the labour market also requires more and better conciliation measures, and that is what we have been doing at this time too, extending paternity leave to four weeks and increasing the age for reduction in childcare hours from eight to twelve years. If you left the electoral strategies, you would approve the State General Budgets for 2018, where we will also extend paternity permits one more week, to five weeks, but, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me the feeling that you are going up here, to this rostrum, with the flag of equality, but with the aim of following that saying together, a lie repeated a thousand times becomes a truth. But they are not going to cheat on their distorted data, they are not going to get drunk or cover up reality, and reality is what has happened in the recent history of this country, from 2008 to 2011, when 1,400,000 women lost their jobs. Do you know who ruled at the time? The Socialist Party. That, not to mention the more than 2.5 million jobs that were destroyed and not to remember that seven out of nine stops in Europe were Spanish. That is the balance sheet of the Socialist Party Government. Therefore, in this matter we cannot be taught any lessons. Do you know what the greatest inequality is? Women's unemployment, and when the Socialist Party rules, it creates women's unemployment. That is the greatest inequality! [[Applauds]] Today the situation is very different. Today we are creating jobs, today we have been leading the decline of unemployment throughout the euro area for fifty months. We have recovered 70% of the job that was destroyed. Today, all the female employment destroyed by the crisis has been recovered. Today there are 8.5 million women working. There's never been so many in our history! Today the wage gap is narrowing by 4 points, below Germany, below Portugal and below France. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Of course there's still way to go, don't misunderstand us. That is why, of course, we want to continue working and we want to reach an agreement so that in these matters there is no partisan struggle and, indeed, we send a message of unity to women from all over Spain. But, ladies and gentlemen, you're late. On 14 November the Minister presented to the Social Dialogue Bureau for the quality of employment a proposal to improve pay transparency and equal pay, but it seems that you do not want to listen and do not want to take into account what that Bureau and the social partners are going to say. I am told by the spokesman for the Socialist Group that they would agree on the measures we have put forward - a proposal to be able to reach an agreement - but without having to wait for that social dialogue table to say. What do you want? Do you want the social partners to be guests, guests of stone? We propose that they reach an agreement, that the necessary regulatory changes be made and that the social dialogue table and the social partners be put forward, but not as mere stone guests. That is why we extend our hand to them in order to reach a great deal of agreement in which we hear what that social dialogue table says and what the social partners say. Do not boycott the negotiation and do not boycott that social dialogue table so that we can reach an agreement that ultimately means that the guarantee of equal pay and pay transparency is an effective reality for all men and women in this country. And I end up with a question. The Spokesperson for the Joint Group spoke of representation of women. I remind you that here, in this Parliament, there is a president of the Congress of Deputies appointed and proposed by a party, which is the People's Party. With regard to women's employment, support for equal opportunities and support for women, no party can teach us any lessons. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u190	Good morning. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I had planned a certain intervention, but I would like to start by correcting it, because what I am hearing is the chronicle of the usual: a problem as serious as this, which is faced by the pympampum of you did or did worse or did not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, a year later we come back with the same debate as that of another motion calling on the Government to carry out or promote certain measures in this area, and a year later we are obliged to remind the Executive, first, that it has failed to fulfil that mandate of this House and, secondly, that the problem remains in force. This is a major problem and it is because the twenty-first century - in the words of someone whom I know many of you appreciate, the lehendakari Ibarretxe - is the one of the greatest revolution ever attempted, which is to try to get 50% of humanity to have the same rights as the other 50%; rights or miseries, but placed on an equal footing. It's a challenge to get into. The President of the Government must be corrected to say that this is a challenge that must be addressed. This motion is perhaps scarce for this, but it is still a first stone, a grain of sand in that kind of attempt that we must make to remove not only the wage gap, but also the gender inequality that, as such, permeates the whole field of work. That in Spain the wage gap is 16% and that it is 7 points from Germany, as some statistics said, is not something that comforts us. In the words of the UN, it is the biggest theft in history in general. It is women who have to assume more temporary contracts and more part-time contracts as a result of their role in conciliation that worries us even more because it limits their professional and work development. The fact that social actors have sometimes ignored this situation, placing women in a worse position, even in equal professional groups, is also a sign that this general involvement may not have as much preaching as in principle it seems to represent. That despite the fact that we all know that women have a significantly higher level of training and activity than men have a witness position in management positions - 18% in company boards which are listed on the Stock Exchange, 4% in management positions in those companies and only 2.8% in delegated advisers of those companies, including the President, for example, at professional level - does not help to understand that this difference, this disassociation continues to be maintained. But if the consequences are important from the point of view of article 14 of the Constitution and from the point of view of article 28 of the Workers' Statute, they are also important from another point of view on which I would like to warn you. I am a member of the Toledo Pact and I know the challenge posed by the demographic fact. Undoubtedly, the wage gap has to do with a future that we must build and on which the foundations of our citizenship are laid. The demographic fact has some explanations, which mainly come from the lack of income of many women and the difficulty they have in having children and being able to combine them with their work. Between 2009 and 2014, children between zero and four years of age grew from one to six times less, which was exactly the result of the economic shortage that caused the crisis. In the labour market it is still valued as a cost to be a woman, both because of the risk of becoming pregnant and because it can abandon or interrupt its activities, and this also results from the wage cost. The gender reconciliation scenario, in which we have not yet finished entering this House, depends on the wage gap itself, but also on the situation of dissociation between the two activities. So there are many other situations that we can describe and these measures proposed today in the motion are intended to help resolve them, but, I'm sorry, there are few. I have the conscience, as a man, that there are few. I imagine that, as women, you have to feel a little more sharp. This situation worries me as much as it embarrasses me. I think we should worry and embarrass everyone, institutions, parties, social partners, men in general. I do not think we should allow this situation to remain as it is as it is. I will vote in favour of this motion, but I will do so with some degree of bad conscience, because I understand that it is a grain of sand more in that twenty-first century challenge of achieving a century of equality, but it seems to me to be an insufficient commitment that I think we should overcome, of course, with a different attitude of union to certain wills that must be made among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u191	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u192	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Between the words - I do not know whether you are empty or not - of the Minister of Employment and Social Security, affirming in a consistent way to be committed to equal opportunities and to equal pay until the end, and the statements of Mariano Rajoy, saying textually and without blushing that of 'we don't get involved in that; the rulers must be very careful when it comes to knowing what our competences are and what we don't', it was a few hours; of course, there is no equal pay. According to a UGT report, women workers in the Spanish state earn 24% less than workers and have to work eleven and a half years more than men to get the same pension as they do. We have one of the largest wage gaps in the European Union. We are not going to give lessons, of course we are not going to give them! But we have one of the biggest wage gaps in the European Union and it is clear that the crisis and austerity policies have only exacerbated this extreme injustice. But it is clear, as always, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: we are not going to give lessons; it is best not to get involved in that; it is best to wait for someone or something to correct it; it is best, as always, that someone, for example of his Council of Ministers, put something of will and very good on the subject and, finally, talk, talk, and, finally, of course, do not get involved in that eggplant. In fact, in Catalonia we already know perfectly well its formulas for resolving conflicts; a real shame. It is true that the wage gap is a matter of discrimination, a consequence of the sexist prejudices - and we have to say this - of employers, who pay less to women than to men for doing the same job. It is a real attack on justice and equality, but it is, of course, the fruit of a Spanish society, absolutely patriarchal and macho in every sense; a society that still drinks of the outdated principles of tardifranchism. But it's not the only cause either. The truth is that it is essential to legislate and that you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE remain short. Measures were needed to increase the amount of women's pensions; to equalize maternity and paternity leave once and for all and to make it non-transferable; schools from zero to three free years. What the People's Party has to do once and for all is, for example, to finance what they committed themselves to, the Unit Act. The wage gap must be prohibited by law and sanctions imposed when it is breached. Legislation in favour of equality is not a novelty; you will not be given the prize for originality, nothing will happen to you at all. In Germany, Iceland and the United Kingdom, legislative measures are already in place to equalise wages and opportunities between the two genders. If a woman and a man do the same job, I ask, even if it seems rhetorical, why the hell shouldn't they charge the same? Well, I'll tell you, 'cause it's best not to get involved in that. There are several solutions, but I insist with the numbers: three out of four part-time contracts are occupied by female workers. These data show us once again the machismo in the labour market and the unequal distribution of care work between men and women. Women devote twice as much time to domestic work and to the care of children and dependents as they do, as well as 94% of child care surpluses and reductions in working hours due to family issues are taken by women. It is therefore essential and necessary to establish equal and non-transferable birth and adoption permits, because only in this way, I insist, only in this way will men be guaranteed their right to care for their newborn children and women will finally be free from the stigma of being intrusive in the labour market. And if we stop being intruders we will surely leave entrepreneurs without excuses to discriminate at the time of hiring, at the time of promotions or at the time of raising wages. In short, and finally, the educational system - let us not leave it - is also important. It is important to introduce measures to combat sexist prejudice into this system. If we reduce gender segregation in education, we will both reduce gender segregation in the labour market and thus reduce the wage gap. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you have two options: to get into this and work with concrete measures or not to get into this. What do we do, Mr. Rajoy, get in the way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u194	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking again about the wage gap and of course it is no more than that. The other day I published on a social network a news that had to do with this issue, and to my surprise I received a lot of comments and even insults that came to deny the existence of the gap. Therefore, even if it seems absurd, it is necessary to start this intervention by saying something that for all of us, I hope, should be something obvious, and that is that the wage gap between men and women exists. We live in an unequal society and of course this has its reflection in the workplace; the gap does not necessarily mean that we cover less by doing the same job, the gap means that women charge less and we have worse jobs because of the structural inequality that exists in our society, and therefore in the labour market. It is not that there is a curse, no, employers do not meet in covens every night to study how to put obstacles to our professional careers To know the causes we have to look at the concrete data: women are the majority in university studies, about 58%; while our employment rate is 12 points lower than that of men; the temporality is higher in the case of women, nothing more and nothing less than 25% compared to 8% among men; it is only 11.8% women who are on the IBEX boards of directors. As you will understand, this is not because we women are less eager to work. The employment rate between men and women is not very different until the age of thirty, it is from that age when it decreases considerably in women, and curiously in men it increases, this happens at the age of having children. Women spend twice as many hours on household chores, and we also take 93% of the child-care work surplus. Women earn less because we work less paid hours, in less paid sectors, and we are less represented in the higher steps. And these are facts, ladies and gentlemen, facts that must change because in the meantime our society is losing an important talent along the way. It is our great outstanding subject, not only that of Spain, but that of Europe as a whole. Almost all European countries, some with much better data than we, are already taking steps to end the wage gap. I would ask your lordships of the People's Party to be rigorous. Last week, at the control session, Mr Rajoy gave some data and talked about a 14.9% labour gap, according to old Eurostat data. Well, look, Mrs Romero, what I have here is quite indifferent, this news says as follows: 30% of the wage gap. [[Shows the headline of a news]] This is what there is at present and these are data from the finance technicians, reliable data from the Tax Agency, Mr Montoro. Wasn't the government counting on this data? Why are you hiding them? The time has come, ladies and gentlemen of the PP; we have to get into this because it is urgent. The gap is not only not narrowing as it should, but it is widening. That's not fair to women or the entire society. We can't give up or let down that half of the talent. One of the basic measures to combat the gap is equal parental leave, co-responsibility, which Mrs Cancela said, because, as I have pointed out, it is right at the time of having children when women's professional careers are seriously damaged. It is necessary for both men and women to be equally involved in the care of our children: egalitarian permits and also, why not, to regulate the shared custody, which you have vetoed, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Be consistent. They talk about co-responsibility, they repeat it and repeat it. Is shared custody not co-responsibility? Sometimes they seem to like living in the last century. Well, Citizens demanded in the investiture agreement with the People's Party to increase and equalize paternity permits. We then agreed on the 2017 General Budgets and managed to include different orange measures. Thanks to this, the Spanish parents were able to enjoy two more weeks of permits last year. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. We are waiting for the government at once to bring the 2018 General Budgets to this House in order to continue to increase permits. We, like the citizens who are in their homes, are worth the facts, not the words, socialist ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, in addition to the permits, these general budgets contain other measures that will reduce the wage gap, some of which we agree with the People's Party: an additional aid of EUR 1000 per year for families with children from zero to three years and a wage supplement for young people that will mostly help women. The General Budgets of the State - yes, ladies and gentlemen - are key to changing things in this country. As long as you don't go down into the mud, you're going to go on like this, just like you've done so far, without getting anything at all. Do you know how many initiatives have already been discussed and approved on the wage gap in what goes on in the legislature? At least four, I think. We can continue to do this, discussing hours and hours of pay gap, demonstrating with banners, screaming, etc., but if that does not get any concrete measures in place that affect the lives of citizens, what is the point? Do you really want to improve women's lives or do you just want to use them as one more banner? They have here a war between socialists and We can see who gives more. For you know perfectly well that what Mr Rajoy said the other day, that if we didn't get involved in this, it wasn't a joke. Of course he doesn't want to get in. Three motions approved more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u195	Mrs. Reyes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u196	I'm done, President. Three motions that have been approved for more than a year without being put into effect. Don't be naive. The General Budgets of the State, I repeat, that's the way. Get lost or at least abstain and let the orange initiatives that will end the wage gap get underway. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u197	I ask Mrs Cancela Rodríguez whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u198	Yes, President. I have already commented in my speech that we accepted the amendments of the PDECAT, the Joint Group, and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u199	All right. I'm asking because there might be something new. Thank you very much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE PLANS OF THE MINISTER FOR AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT ON THE PLANS OF THE MINISTER FOR WATER. [[File number 173/000076]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u200	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment in the field of water. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the minister came here and released the progress and long-term vision that the People's Party was making to improve our nation's water deficit. The truth is that they had it very easy because the Socialist Party did nothing at the time. Well, yes, he revoked a transfer from the Ebro and started a policy of desalination that didn't complete and cost us an additional €1.5 billion. So I had it easy. But I would have liked the minister, instead of coming here and being so eloquent, to have taken a tour of Spain, and as those who live with the tension and the reality of a water shortage - as may be my case in the south-east area - would have tested and felt the uncertainty these citizens have. Pulse the physical and social reality of what you're doing with your water policies, the insecurity you're generating; this is a patch policy, we're rushing to solve a problem. A real policy to improve the system is not being put in place here. No, no, gentlemen of the PP, you come and let go: we do it fantastically, we do it phenomenal, but I would like the minister to go to Murcia or Alicante or Almeria and tell the citizens there that they have solved it, that they have the problem solved; it does not go. That he would have gone to see the Lesser Sea; he didn't. And these are the things that we have to do, not come here and say how well I do, but do the things that the citizens ask of you, which we have voted for. [[Applauds]] I don't like looking back, because that's what you do, looking back, always back. And Podemos, imagine. Let's look forward, let's see three axes that I think we need to implement to improve this once and for all. First of all, Spain. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this has ceased to be a problem of three regions, of the damned South, because unfortunately the impacts of climate change make this national or state, or, according to the secessionists, of the Iberian Peninsula, but that I know Fontibre is still in Cantabria. If they don't know what Fontibre is, it's where the Ebro is born, they tell Mr. Rufián. [[Applauds]] Reducing agricultural production by 30 to 40 % affects the value chain. In the end, the quality of the product will fall, prices will rise and it will affect citizens, all citizens. Moreover, as a country, we have committed ourselves to complying with directives that we are not complying with. Neither the Water Framework Directive nor the Water Quality Directive nor the Reuse Directive. By the way, we are already fined 177 000 euros a day - more than with the stoves, what happens is that nobody here says anything - and perhaps a pending fine of one billion. If Mr. Iglesias were here - which he is not - I would say: How many public schools would we do with a billion! Well, get on the case and plant it for him. [[Applauds]] We have to meet - and this must - the vision and objectives of the Europe 2020 Initiative, the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development, the OECD Water Governance Initiative, the new water policy and the 2030 Urban Agenda. We must comply, and that must be the basis of this new framework of the national water pact. And also the fight against desertification, which nobody here talks about, but we have a breakthrough in brutal desertification in our country. We must ensure, ladies and gentlemen, the availability and supply of water to the population, and of course water for irrigation and water for industry. To improve and ensure the current quality standards of the nation's waters, especially those of human consumption and of course those that nourish aquatic ecosystems. No citizen of this country can feel discriminated against in the matter of water for living in one place or another, ladies and gentlemen. We also need to talk about another issue, regeneration. Water has a lot of problems, but what needs to be done is to change the chip; let's do it, let's do a practice of regeneration, integrity and transparency. Let's take advantage and change the model now. Let us leave our usual policies, yours, which in twenty-five years have led us not to anything, but to scarcity. Let's change the model; now we have to implement the scenarios of climate change, of course. We need to change the habits and management of investments. We must try to keep investment in infrastructure from costing 120 million to 600 million; that was done by Mr Ramón Luis Valcárcel with the desalination of Escombreras. You can't move from 120 million to 600! That's the big problem we have in this country. There is also a need for the comprehensive water management law. We have to set up a regulatory body, without of course removing the powers of municipal authorities or self-governments, but we have to create a system of play and create a regulation so that we all work the same. You can't do a benchmarking of water management regulations in cities, you can't do it because that's how they go. We do not create legal certainty for the investments to be made! By the way, investments worth EUR 17 billion would also generate 23 000 jobs. Eye! But the obsolescence of our pipes, of our sewers is brutal, they have an average age of sixty years and a replacement rate of 0.6 and when they change they will be 100 years old. Do you know the water that's lost in 100-year-old pipes? A third. Of the 3200 cubic hectometres measured in cities, 1060 cubic hectometres of water are lost. And they'll say, well, how much is that? It is the water deficit of Almería, Murcia and Alicante. [[Applauds]] European directives must be implemented, efficiency must be improved, climate change scenarios must be set in motion and a public water bank must be made transparent so that this black water market ceases to exist. A road irrigation management plan must be included, of course, but also in cities, as well as a drought risk management plan. We must innovate, we must improve the infrastructure deficit, we must urgently invest 12 billion in urgent actions so that we are not fined! The luck we have among all these misfortunes is that we have human capital and technology, because scarcity has made us improve; the only bad thing is that from 2007 to 2017 investments in this country have fallen by 90%. And that human capital and those technologies are being applied abroad, not in Spain, but abroad, because we have the best and here they come to see the best. The irrigation must be modernised. We cannot have 800 000 hectares of irrigation without modernising! You can't use 15,000 cubic hectometres 5000 in blanket irrigation! It's impossible! We have to do this, we have to use the new technologies. Operational units need to be supported to improve the modernisation of their irrigation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - I was going to say a lot more, but I miss this issue - the aim is to achieve a national pact that seeks balance and benefits all Spaniards, all families, all sectors and is based on solidarity, on the creation of value and on the principles of sustainability and cross-cutting. That is what we have come to say here, ladies and gentlemen, we have not come to stop and say what needs to be done. We must call on the Minister to convene this Water Bureau and the 350 - which is less so here today - we have a responsibility to move this issue forward. That's what the citizens are going to thank us for if we do. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u202	In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bel Accensi is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u203	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that I followed the inquiry carefully, I also read carefully the motion resulting from the inquiry, the rectification of the motion resulting from the inquiry, and the truth is that you come to the conclusion that this motion does not want what you are asking for, but wants something else. He wants to go to his land and say that he has already asked for the water that is needed, he wants to show that the others are not being clarified, but that you - who are the new ones and who are here to fix not only Spain, but Europe, the whole world and a part of the galaxy - will solve it by this motion. Do you know what's going on? That in the motion I have heard you talk about water deficit; about increasing demand; I have heard you talk about providing water to agriculture, industry, the population, and that is good for us. But I have not found - and I have done so in the reply to the minister - that environmental criteria should be respected in the area of this pact, a fundamental issue, because you are concerned about your land and I am concerned about my land. We are concerned about the situation in the Ebro Delta and we are also concerned about Doñana, so we should put it first. Since this motion does not seek what it says, but simply aims to enable a pact that once again generates large transfers of water in the Spanish State, it will not count on our support. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz also has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of water resources in many territories is a fact that no one is discussing, and in cases such as the Valencian is becoming a genuinely structural problem. In the Valencian territory, the lack of facilities to reuse the depurated resources means that almost 300 cubic hectometres are lost per year, the amount equivalent to a transfer, and obviously before asking for water one has to manage the one. That is why it is necessary first to clean up waste water, and secondly to treat it in order to make it fit for human and agricultural consumption. This requires investments that the State has to make, and we also need to be properly financed so that we can do work within our remit. We find that we have very poor funding that does not allow us to achieve this. But above all I ask myself aloud: how will we be able to finance new works for the reuse of the waters if Citizens are dedicated to voting, together with the People's Party, to reject all the amendments that Compromís presented in this House to the General Budgets of the State last year? If you want to help, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, start by voting in favour of spending on public works to improve water management. I remind you - and especially the Valencian representatives of Citizens - that in the processing of the last General Budgets of the State voted against amendments of Compromises that wanted to get 30 million euros for the expansion of the cleaning plant of Peñíscola, 60 million euros for the desalination plant of Xilxes-Moncòfa, 5 million euros for the desalination plant of Mutxamel, 1 million euros for the use of water in Xixona; that is, 96 million euros that represented the four amendments that fell also with their vote. What we are putting forward in its day are concrete commitments and we have therefore wanted to cover the voidness of the motion which we are presenting to us by also submitting an amendment so that the regents who use the Tagus-Segura aqueduct - which is heavily affected by the drought - are exempted from the annual rate of EUR 120 per hectare imposed on them by the Council of Ministers agreement. We would also like you to accept some of the amendments that have been submitted to you by other groups, because we really see that this motion that you are bringing to us is a very insipid one, and we need to be added broth, in order to please this motion, because if we do not really know what it means; if we do not try to stage, for the umpteenth time, this situation that you have in confrontation with the People's Party Government. We reserve the meaning of our vote so that, in the light of the debate, we can see what the amendments look like and see if there is a broth here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u206	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Luis Bail has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u207	Thank you, President. Well, in this metaphor of what are the great empty reservoirs, you propose a great national pact empty of content, where what we see is a great pact of silence just like the previous ones. And in this context, in their motivation they talk about large infrastructures. What major infrastructures? When they talk to the Socialist Party they will surely talk to them about the Water Plan; when they talk to the People's Party they will surely talk to them about the large hydraulic infrastructures that are necessary for transfers. And we will be given the pill by talking about modernization, the new water culture and so on. If they did this for all of me, I'd understand that they're trying to convince. But it's also a part of naivety that they don't think we're not going to look at on their press conferences and what they have on the election program about the content they're giving these concepts, highly symbolic, but empty, if they haven't just explained them. In their programme, followed by the national water pact, they talk about the White Paper on Water, which was published in 1998 by the People's Party, and which read twenty years later we see that it is beaded of knowledge and concepts that have been widely exceeded and that are of course exhausted, for the decades of struggle that social movements and citizens have been bringing to the courts, and that it has been those who have paralysed the great hydraulic work of this country through sentences. I am going to tell you a story apart from the concepts that I think we should start to put aside, such as that of surplus basins for the basins of the Duero or the Ebro or the theme of the reduction of water resources derived from climate change, which my colleague Pedro Arrojo will explain to you better and more in depth tomorrow; although we have the theme of the Tagus and the illegal transfer that was made, and to show you a button. In the works of the Ebro, Jánovas. After having pulled them out of their homes at gunpoint and destroyed them, and not having obtained any technician who could make an evaluation that could overcome the courts, the People's Party finally decided, after centuries, after this came from the dictatorship, to give folder to this project. In Santaliestra a similar thing happened, also a court ruling that was settled with an agreement between the plain and the mountain, and that gave rise to San Salvador. Something similar happened to Torre del Conte, Yesa and Mularroya. Here I am deeply indignant that the lords of the People's Party come to complain about the overprice of the entrances of Sabina's concerts and do not equally disdain them that the budget of Yesa is multiplying by four, that a pharaonic work is being done on top of a fault, and that the minister comes last week and tells us that it is being done with all the guarantees and at a good pace.Look: Mularroya is the same, the Hydrographic Confederation is denying the seismic risks offered by these works, and while they are doing it is that all these people who are suffering the great harms of the great work have to look for life and try to fight against these pharaonic works. [[Applauds]] Lechago and Los Fayos. Costs prevent - and in fact prevent - beneficiaries from saying that they do not want these works to be put into operation. Montearagon and Santolea: they cannot be filled by the collapses that exist. You tell us that the Water Framework Directive and the human right to water will be collected when we sit down and talk. Well, I quote from the letter of formal notice issued by the European Commission's infringement procedure, which literally states that the Kingdom of Spain has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 4 - several points - establishing a Community framework for action in the field of water policy: the Water Framework Directive. When we arrived we asked a question about this ongoing infringement, and curiously we were told that everything was fine and that it was going at a good pace. Forty days later, the National Court draws out the 2012 ordinary procedure - five years earlier - in which it throws down the environmental impact statement, the preliminary draft, saying that the declaration of general interest and the environmental cost assessment are not based. That is what this Government, and ultimately the State, is doing with regard to the Water Framework Directive. Let us not talk about the human right to water which, of course, is recognized by the United Nations but is not yet understood in hydraulic planning. It is not understood as a common good, as an essential element of ecosystems and as a human right, but as a commodity, as a productive input and a good of speculation. Therefore, the moment we sit at that table that you are proposing what will be discussed will be what transfers, what privatizations and what markets to do, and that seems to us to be a vicious debate from the beginning. That debate must be made, but in the face of this great national water pact, the social movements that we are emplaced with are a social agreement of water, a worthy and humble social agreement of water based on the recovery of our rivers, wetlands, lakes and aquifers, with a public environmental heritage that must be at the service of the general interest and, therefore, in the defence of water as a public good that must be of universal access with regard to water and sanitation services, as it is a human right recognized by the United Nations. That's gonna happen this weekend. There we will have to meet and do listening work with all the social movements that have been decades - in the case of Biscarrués thirty years - fighting against large swamps and against that unreasoning, against that latrociny as a form of government. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you in Mr Zapatero's first parliamentary term did a good job on the water masses. I'm sure they'll be there and the social movements invited them. I'll be waiting for you in Zaragoza this weekend. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you are slowly updating your arguments. Gentlemen of Citizens, get a little hands on the work and update the argumentary. This is an opportunity to reach an agreement, let's do it and let's put aside once and for all the agreements and concepts that are expired, outdated and, of course, forgotten, as should be forgotten by the large reservoirs such as Yesa, Mularroya, Biscarrués and all those who have no reason to be and who only endanger the citizens who live below and who absolutely lick the future of those who are above. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Luis, your time had run out. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Lara Carbó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the motion of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Government on water policy. In fact, rereading Mrs Rodríguez Hernández's speech reveals her lack of knowledge of the division of powers in the field of water, and it seems more like an interpellation to all the governments - the present and the previous ones - the autonomous communities and the local entities. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that in Spain there was no water policy until the Citizens' Group came to this House, and this gives me some perplexity, because the water policy has been and is a fundamental issue of the Government, I would say that of all the governments, of all the autonomous communities and of all the local entities, each in its competence, with its lights and its shadows, in a country that is hydrologically characterized by irregular rainfall and where water is a scarce and unevenly distributed good, a characteristic that is increased by the effects of climate change. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, our water legislation clearly specifies the powers of the various administrations, which consultative bodies, how hydrological planning should be, and a long one and so on that would not be wrong, Mrs Rodríguez, that you should take a look at it, because learning is always good. Ladies and gentlemen, last March - it will be a year now - Minister García Tejerina announced in the National Water Council the will of the Government, in compliance with our electoral programme, to launch a process of dialogue to reach a national water pact. Recently, the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, has referred to two major state pacts: on autonomous financing and on water. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Group, in line with what it has been doing lately to propose initiatives that the Government has already announced or is carrying out, in a kind of repeated political plagiarism, advocates in its motion for a national water table to make a national water pact that will lead us to a national hydrological plan. By the way, Mr Garaulet, in his speech, has outstripped the point of the motion and has spoken to us - as he usually does, which is understandable - about the problems of the Spanish uprising. I think Mr Garaulet has realized that his request is late and is therefore out of place. And it is, ladies and gentlemen, for several reasons: first, because when you decide to make this request for a national water pact, the ministry has already held more than 125 meetings; yes, ladies and gentlemen, 125 meetings with all the sectors involved: autonomous communities, Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, entities and associations representing water users, supply, communities of regents, hydroelectrics, NGOs, associations... In short, with all those who have something to contribute in the management of water to advance towards that great pact that I assure everyone here we wish. The aim is already to start negotiations with the various parliamentary groups, while continuing to work at the technical level to achieve this as soon as possible. Secondly, because when you request to convene a national water table, you seem to be unaware of the existence of the National Water Council, regulated in Chapter 2 of Title II of the consolidated Water Act, which states that the National Water Council is the highest body for consultation and participation in the matter in which the General Administration of the State, autonomous communities, basin agencies, professional and economic organizations, trade unions, business organizations and NGOs will be represented. If you do not know this, I attribute to your ignorance that we are being proposed today to create a national water table. [[Applauds]] Because I wonder: ladies and gentlemen, what sector do you miss at the National Water Council? Who else would you introduce to this national water table? Because, by carefully analyzing it, the only ones who are not on the National Water Council because they have no local or autonomous representation or anywhere are you; that is, the difference between the existing National Water Council, established in the Water Law, and what you propose is whether you are or not. Thirdly, because the modification of the National Hydrological Plan, which seems to be its only objective, is one of the water management instruments in our country which, in any case, must be based on a national water pact built on consensual solutions to the challenges posed by such management, including climate change. The national water pact we are proposing seeks, ladies and gentlemen, not only to ensure the full availability of water resources throughout the territory and for all citizens, but also to ensure its effective, supportive, sustainable and integrated use. The national water pact that Spain needs goes further, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, and this is perceived by the representatives of the sectors involved. The pact, from our point of view, must provide urgent solutions to ensure that the environmental objectives of the watershed hydrological plans are met, including sanitation and purification in all areas; sanitation and purification, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, which, I assure you, are a priority for the Government. Let me remind you that the Growth Plan, the plan for growth, competitiveness and efficiency, promoted in 2014 by the government of Mariano Rajoy, envisages an investment of more than 1200 million euros in purification. Ladies and gentlemen, in the same way, the national water pact we want must, of course, provide solutions to ensure that the demands of the basins are met, but also that the legal and political commitments made with the European Union and the necessary economic and financial stability for the Spanish water system are met. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the meaning of our amendment, which I hope will be accepted by the proposing group as it gives it a certain consistency to its proposal. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. As Minister Tejerina said: The water state pact must enable us to deal with scarcity in the best possible way and with maximum consensus. In this endeavour, the keys have been and will continue to be hydrological planning and dialogue, indispensable for meeting a challenge that is moving forward in an inexorable way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor on the position-setting table by the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. The question we had last week has therefore brought this motion, and we ask ourselves a question: have we not all reached a unanimous agreement to create a subcommission within the Committee on Agriculture to deal with water issues that somehow focus on needs, on all those issues that are pending, etc., so that you now bring us this motion to welcome what is being done? Then we ask ourselves, "What do you present to the saint?" But the answer is found in their own motion when they say that in their agreement with the People's Party at point 52 they said that we had to deal with this issue. It seems that this matter has not been fulfilled and we are then put as a motion something that you two agreed on at the time, and why do you bring your agreement to us if it is an agreement that is not being complied with by yourselves? Today is Valentine's Day and it seems that love, once wonderful of days of wine and roses, today has become a divorce and you are throwing your junk at the head of what has not worked. Having said that, they also say that they have ten issues - which I do not know where they are - that are important to this issue. The issue of water has always been used by some parties, I would say that all of you, and you have now joined, but you have followed the path well directed by others to use water as an element not only bold but as the great theme to throw the mess at each other's head. We don't see exactly what they want because it gives us the feeling that they want what they don't say exactly in the motion. We believe that the issue of water is a very serious one, but they have also forgotten that there are many participants in the issue of water and not only must everything be decided as a matter of State, because those of us who are also competent in this matter in the basins we have something to say in this regard. The amendment that the People's Party presents full of obvious facts, when it represents the government that has an obligation to do what they say it should do in its own amendment, is something that at least blushes. I think this is being used as a pimpampum and the water issue is much more serious than all that, and we do not think we welcome something so important, something that generates so much controversy and something that needs more pause and more debate, that for that a subcommission has been created, so we are not going to enter into this story that corresponds to the agreements and disagreements of other people.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u212	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs and MPs, I have to confess a certain stupor because by rereading last week's inquiry by MP Rodriguez Hernández on behalf of Citizens I see that his first intervention ended by quoting Kennedy. He said: Whoever solves the problem of water will be worthy of two Nobel Prizes, that of Economy and Peace. Well, my astonishment is not because the appointment is wrong, we will find it on the Internet among the 100 best quotes of JFK, but because one reminds one more of the saying chastity of: tips sell and for me I do not have, even though I like Aute more. Aute says: I don't know if I'm going or I'm coming from somewhere I've never been. Citizens, in their apparent aseptic motion, hides the will to work in a framework that exceeds the current watersheds, that leads us to a water law and a new national hydrological plan, this takes it in their electoral program. Is that how you suppose you'll pacify the Spanish state's water system? You, Citizens, pretend to make us look like a single neoliberal thought in a mercantilist logic of water. In other words, they base their model on the water rights concession market or, in simpler words, privatize water management. We're in the antepods. We believe in a new water culture that truly contemplates a new model of hydrological governance with a real and effective presence of social representatives, cities, users and users who decide on decision-making; agricultural and territorial hydrological planning that once upon a time contemplates a climate change scenario and the increasing reduction of water resources; a change in the priority of water use that puts people's and ecosystems' needs ahead of it; and effective water use control that rigorously pursues those who waste it. This is our model shared with the scientific community, with social movements and goes in the opposite direction. For this reason, the ecological flow agreements of the rivers need to be complied with. We are talking about the survival of whole ecosystems and the economic viability of many regions, including the L'Ebre Delta. However, we are again faced with the old political tale of saying one thing or another, depending on where they are, once dressed in wolf skin, pacting with the People's Party, and today, Miguel Angel, of lamb skin - also at these times you can say anything - in a totally opposite sense. You do not amass this privatizing will in your election program, but you come here asking only for the call of the water table to make us the other necessary accomplices. They won't find us. They want to play Milton Friedman while paraphrasing JFK, theses and antithesis at the same time. Do not count on us, especially because we do not communicate with your model, a failed neoliberal model in the sites that has been applied, especially in ecosystems and, if not, look where they are. We will not be in this model of privatization of goods and public services because it forgets the most important thing, that water is not a business; it is life. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u215	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are debating the subsequent motion for an inquiry into the convening of a national water table. I must confess that, after listening to last week's inquiry, I had an interest in seeing what Citizens were proposing in the water debate and, once I knew the text of the motion, with correction included, and after listening to them today, I must say that they have exceeded all my expectations. Both in the times and in the forms and content are home brand and to show a button. In the explanatory statement of the motion itself they indicated that they were going to propose, I quote literally, ten questions of wide scope conducive to critical reflection and interdisciplinary dialogue, but the motion has only one point and my question is: So much noise to request a water table? I have to say that we would also be interested to know what the rest of these nine measures were. And I must point out, as other speakers have already said, that there are already participatory bodies. What the Government has to do is to summon them and involve society. And as to which collective we miss, for example, the assigning territories. The assigning areas are not well represented within the Water Council. They do not realize that with this motion, gentlemen of Citizens, what they are doing is playing the game with the government; government that is dizzying the loser with 125 meetings, but with no proposal on the table. [[Applauds]] And, as you know, because you participated in the vote, we unanimously approved the creation of the subcommission for the study of water and the impact of climate change. That should be the forum for addressing water issues and proposals. I believe that the time to bring this motion is simply the orange political opportunism that we are accustomed to. I would now like to focus on the explanatory statement, as little can be said of the proposed measures, where a number of things are intuned. They say that there is no public debate in our country or that if it exists it is partial or circumstantial, and that is that, whether you do not know it or do not participate, it does not mean that it does not exist. From the Socialist Party we welcome you to this kind of debate and we are glad that you are joining us. As I said, we are waiting for the nine remaining proposals to be brought to us. From the Socialist Party we have worked with experts in recent months on a document called 'Bases for a country agreement on water'; an open document, a participatory document, from which we are already receiving input from society, and a document which, curiously enough, this one does have ten basic proposals to achieve the agreement. I'm just going to read them the first one that says, "Drawing a hydrological audit, because whatever approach we take, whatever political approach we take, has to be based on technical and scientific criteria." It is clear that the scientific basis must be taken into account and not just the political will to reach an empty agreement is worth it. That is why the party that I represent - and you mention it in your motion - partially repealed the 2001 National Hydrological Plan, because it was a plan that did not take into account the technical criteria and what was progressing on climate change, in addition to violating European regulations. In his motion, he also refers to the desalination plan, as he calls it, launched by the Socialist Government, indicating that he did not have full consensus either. But how would I count on the full consensus, if there were gentlemen here who defended water for all without limit and who, moreover, denied the existence of climate change? It was impossible for there to be consensus with the People's Party at the time! Not anymore. Now we defend the existence of desalination and bet on it. We have arrived twelve years later, we have wasted a lot of time, but now we can come up with other kinds of agreements. They also place special emphasis on the lack of hydraulic works and talk about inter-cuenca solidarity. Well, they point to the transvasion fever, even if they literally don't say so, but leaders of their party, for example in Aragon, have come to tell us that the national hydrological plan would have to be a transvasion plan. What is clear is that in a country with few water resources these must be managed and used as efficiently as possible, because they are scarce resources - as I have said - and valuable, both for society, for the economy and for the environment. That is why my group will always advocate initiatives that will improve that management, as I said, sustainable from a very important resource in our country. But this is not the case with the motion that they bring us today, because little or nothing contributes to this debate. For that reason, it will not count on the support of the Socialist Group. In conclusion, I would like to make a request to the Lords of Citizens: do not use water as a bold weapon to make politics; do not use it and get out of political opportunism with regard to water. Nothing more, thank you very much, and I hope you will reflect on water, which is a very important matter for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u216	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Garaulet Rodríguez whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u217	Madam President, we are going to study them and tomorrow, before the vote, we will tell you which one we accept and which one we do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-02-14-CD180214.u218	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, until tomorrow at 9 a.m. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
