ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the agenda item on the discussion of the entire bill on universal access to the National Health System, coming from the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018 of 27 July. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been tabled to this bill and Mrs Angulo Romero has the floor for the defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u2	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the amendment to the entire People's Parliamentary Group to the Royal Decree-Law on universal access to health because it is a rule... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u3	Silence, silence. Silence is for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u4	...irresponsible and the consequences of which will be detrimental to our National Health System. A confusing, contradictory rule in its articulated and drafted without dialogue or consensus with the autonomous communities. We say that it is harmful to the Spanish health system for several reasons, because it creates problems where there are none, because it produces a dangerous effect called to the excellence of our system, because it involves giving free access to a public service paid by the Spaniards, because it will affect the economic viability of the system by entailing an increase in expenditure and a decrease in income and because it does not only improve the situation of the Spaniards in their right to health but harms them, placing us at a direct disadvantage vis-à-vis other citizens of the European Union. I explain to myself, your decree creates problems where there are no problems because it is based on a false premise, that of ending a supposed health exclusion that, in your opinion, led to the reform of the People's Party, a slogan that they have repeated and flagged to the point of satiety since 2012 and that, however, was never accepted by the Spanish, that again and again since then denied their support in the ballot box. Because the truth is that it was the People's Party government that got all Spaniards to have access to public health. While the whole left remained very silent in the face of the social injustice that socialists committed with hundreds of thousands of Spaniards who denied the constitutional right to health, including the unemployed - who lost the subsidy - it was the People's Party that amended that situation. While the Socialist Party allowed foreign citizens to access our health care free of charge just because they registered, hundreds of thousands of Spaniards were excluded. His health was not universal, at least it was not universal for the Spaniards. And you, all clapping. And yet they kept repeating a fallacy, they kept talking badly about our health care system just in order to wear down the People's Party. But the data deny these manifestations, and they are not my data, are data from the present socialist government. The Socialist Government, in a parliamentary response dated this September, says that in Spain the number of people discharged from social security for health care rights in 2012 was 43,900,000; in June 2018, 46,130,000 people. That is to say, 2 176 000 more people. Where is the health exclusion if in Spain we are 46 and a half million people? [[Applauds]] For this reason, the World Health Organization has said that in Spain, despite the crisis, health coverage rubs 100 percent of the population. By the way, I also take the opportunity to say something about the pharmaceutical co-op, because in the same reply the Government says that while in 2012 there were 1,300,000 people free of co-op under Article 102, in June 2018 there were 2,300,000 people free of co-op. That is to say, 933,000 more exempt people thanks to the People's Party. Where are the cuts, gentlemen of the left? His decree creates problems where there were no problems because in Spain health care is provided to everyone who needs it, also to those who are here in an irregular situation, but in an orderly manner and without jeopardizing the sustainability of the Spanish health system. Decree 16/2012 contained the largest health care in the world for these people, including public health programmes. And you have all acknowledged here that all autonomous communities provide comprehensive health care to this group. That is why the Government of the People's Party was working with the autonomous communities on a national standard that would allow this assistance to be homogenized, channelling it as a social service through social services, thus avoiding the granting of an exportable right to other countries. And why hasn't he made any progress on this? Because the communities governed by the Socialist Party put forward their political strategy of wear and tear on the People's Party government, preferring to adopt unconstitutional norms and endangering our public health. They preferred populism and demagogy to ensure the viability of the health system that Spanish people pay with so much effort. That proposal today is the basis of our amendment. Because even if you tell us that your decree prevents this, article 1 says: You will be entitled to 'all persons with Spanish nationality and foreigners who have established their residence in Spanish territory', without distinction. This wording is another button in its irresponsible and erratic immigration policy that has caused an insurmountable migratory pressure on our country that the Government itself has had to recognize. With our amendment, we seek to avoid this effect called to the excellence of our health which they irresponsibly carry out and which will have a strong impact on health services and on the sustainability of the system. Because there are no exceptions, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Montón here, defending the decree, said: All people will have the right to health care under the same conditions as the Spaniards, only because of the mere condition of citizenship. By eliminating the concept of insurance and replacing it with that of mere residence, almost without further requirement, you are giving free bar to anyone who wants to use our public health. The populist discourse of this new PSOE escorted to the left aims to show that with this decree it defends the rights of the most vulnerable, of those who come here looking for opportunities that - I insist - are already sanitaryly protected in Spain. But in reality with their free health bar they are promoting situations of absolute social injustice, where foreign citizens - not vulnerable people, not citizens with economic resources - will benefit from a system paid with Spanish taxes, something that the Spaniards will not be able to enjoy when we cross our border to other countries. I'll give you some examples. Citizens of the European Union, of the United States, of Canada with money can register in Spain, do not register in the central register of foreigners and will have free health care that in their countries do not give them or for which they have to pay a lot of money. Or relatives of citizens legally residing in Spain, for example from Latin American countries, who if they have a health problem that their country does not care for or for which they do have to pay, may come to Spain claiming family reunification. They register, receive health care and return to their country. And what will happen to the citizens of countries with which Spain does not have those agreements referred to in the decree that are many? That for all of them that assistance will be free, because it will be the Spaniards who will have to pay it with the brutal rise of taxes that preview the extreme lefts of PSOE and Podemos. We already lived that free bar; it already cost us 1 billion euros a year, money that could have been destined to reduce waiting lists, to hire professionals, to buy new medicines; a socialist policy that left the National Health System in the ICU. Preventing this from happening again is the basis of our amendment. Because his decree, as I said before, implies an increase in expenses and a decrease in revenues for the system because, even if I set a confused system of exceptions - which would already mean that you lie in your speech of universality - I insist that Article 1 grants the ownership of the right for the mere fact of residing in Spain. Therefore, in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination of the European Union, European citizens, even if they have economic resources, should be treated in the same way as non-European citizens. That is to say, if a non-Community or irregular citizen receives free assistance, a European citizen too. Already in 2011 the European Union opened a sanctioning file to Spain precisely because of this, for a demand from a Danish citizen, which meant a millionaire sanction for Spain and the threat of loss of European funds. And that is what prevented the reform of the People's Party and what is intended to prevent our amendment. Because the money you're willing to pay for that free health bar will have to stop investing in our health care. But also by eliminating the powers of the National Social Security Institute, it will be difficult to bill the assistance provided to third-country nationals, which amounts to many millions of euros a year. I repeat, socialist formula: increased expenditure, less income, bankruptcy of service. And who will pay for this imbalance, the government, the autonomous communities? Because you have not done an economic study of this free health bar. You are quick to legislate, without rigour and, for the most part, Minister, you are refusing to talk about the health financing that is so necessary to address the challenges that the system is facing and which today is so damaging to the disastrous system of funding of the Socialist Party. That health funding that Pedro demanded, but that Sánchez now denies, in that personality unfolding that has discovered us the vice president, Well, look, it is the Spaniards who are going to pay for it. And if this is not so, tell us where you are deceiving us, because if you are filled with your mouths by saying that access to health - at last - will be universal and now tell us that no, that there are exceptions, or it is so for everyone or it is not so. What's the truth then? That is the case, you have made a free health bar, but it also puts the Spaniards at a direct disadvantage compared to the rest of the citizens of the European Union, the Spaniards will have to continue paying the health care we need when we go to other countries, while the citizens of other countries will receive it free in Spain; not free, paid with their taxes. That is why I ask everyone to reflect on and approve our amendment, especially you citizens, because the project that the leftists are defending threatens the viability of the public system most valued by the Spaniards. A system that has contributed to the absence of problems and risks of public health in Spain, on the contrary, gentlemen of the left, we are the second in the world in the highest life expectancy and in a few years we will be the ones who live the most and in the best conditions of health. That's why the millions of Spaniards turned their backs on you and that's why you got the worst result of your history, by these measures. Because you're the ones who defend people, aren't you? That's why people gave you 85 deputies and those who left 137 seats out of health care. [[Applauds]] And there's no Tezanos or guru in the Moncloa making it up. And that is why Mr Sánchez refuses to call elections, because he knows that the Spanish do not approve the measures of this new far-left PSOE and because they know that you are harmful to manage our public services, such as health, which end up ruining. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The Spaniards told them no to that health mantra, they told them no to their policies by measures like this that we amend today. And if you think you're not, prove it, call elections now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde spoke first of all in the position-setting round by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u6	Good morning, egun on. Thank you, Madam President. The People's Party once again proposes an exclusionary text that forgets that the right to health is inherent to every human being beyond his legal status. It presents us a turn back, a right based on the insured that is unjust, xenophobic and re-centralizing. The PP speaks to us of the competences of the autonomous communities with the sole objective of leaving the most exclusive hands free so that they can continue to establish exclusions from the right to health care, especially the most vulnerable groups. The PP, which does not respect the decision-making capacity of the autonomous communities - and I refer to the evidence - has resorted to the laws adopted in Gasteiz and Iruña with the aim of guaranteeing universal health, in an attempt to prevent us from taking measures to ensure that all citizens, without distinction as to origin or legal status, can enjoy a dignified life and public health care. Thus, while it is true that the actual decree presented by the PSOE does not end the health exclusion practised by the PP Government in the last six years and maintains a division between Spaniards and persons with residence permits on the one hand and persons without permits, on the other, imposing conditions to enforce the law, establishing barriers to access to health care that does not bring us closer to the universality that is sought, it still offers us a better starting point for, through partial amendments, moving towards the objective that we pursue: to guarantee universal health with all guarantees absolutely, to guarantee, ultimately, the rights of people in an integral way. In our territory we have been able to do so and this has led the PP to take us to the Constitutional, despite what we will continue to do, for social justice and because we want to own our future. We'll vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u7	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the same group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the day we discussed the real decree for the recovery of universal health we told the then-minister that it was insufficient and aesthetic, and we told her because we wanted it to be precisely an amendment to the whole of the policies of the People's Party on health. That is why we treat it as a bill, to improve it, because we understood that it lacked courage to address the mismanagement that had been done in the area of health. Today we have an amendment to the whole to return to that mismanagement and they call us irresponsible. For, look, what is really irresponsible is to leave more than 900 000 people out of health care; what is irresponsible is to privatise health care with more expensive services while providing worse service; what is irresponsible is to reduce the staffing of health personnel; what is irresponsible, very irresponsible, is to minimize the health investment in the State General Budgets during the administration of the People's Party; and what is terribly irresponsible is that, while you were supposed to do all this to save money, instead of reinvesting it in health care or public services, you were reinvesting it in rescuing banks and highways. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u9	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u10	In case all this was not bad by itself, the worst and most irresponsible of all is that they come here today to tell us, literally, that this royal decree produces a dangerous effect called, which is health free bar. They come up here to scare people, to tell them that we have to choose between caring for immigrants or caring for indigenous people. [[Protests]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, I will read you some statements, you will surely recognize them: they will cross our borders illegally and take advantage of the health system. Favors out-of-control immigration. I'm telling you, they'll sound like you and you could probably even interpret them as your own, but the first one is Trump's and the second one is Salvini's. Make your own conclusions. For us, that's a irresponsibility. That is really what we should be afraid of, the irresponsibility when they govern and leave people out of the health system and the irresponsibility, especially when they make such xenophobic statements from this rostrum. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u12	Thank you, President. While you continue to debate whether or not universal access to health has been in Catalonia for years as we have done our duties and always and by consensus, despite you and your royal decrees, we have always guaranteed universal access to health. Having said that, I would like to say to you - and I have repeated this on several occasions - that it is not at all pleasant to be here in front of some of the most responsible for the farce that keeps the new Government, the legitimate Government of Catalonia, in prison. [[Applauds]] We've destroyed their health care system. I suppose you will remember the talks between the Director of the OAC, De Alfonso, and the Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, who incomprehensiblely remains here as a congressman. Well, when you make us talk about public health, most of the citizens of Catalonia remember that a Spanish minister worked hard and tirelessly to charge the health system in Catalonia. Then we filed a criminal complaint for crimes of prevarication and embezzlement of public funds, and we did so because such statements would be an absolute scandal in any democratic country in Europe. But we are in Spain and the complaint that we presented to these individuals was filed, and it was filed by someone who recently occupied many front pages, Mr Manuel Marchena, author, intellectual too, of the repression that we suffered in Catalonia. Right and at the command of the People's Party, this gentleman is today the president of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Supreme Court, thanks also to a pact between the Socialist Party and the People's Party. In Catalonia every day there are fewer people who know how to distinguish them from each other. Today we save Marchena and today we save Borrell. This also applies to the independence, ladies and gentlemen, of being independent of all this rubbish. Many thanks and freedom political prisoners. Our vote is no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that I will have to call the question when you spend all the time giving a speaker to an issue that has nothing to do with the issue we are dealing with. It is understandable any kind of position to defend a proposal for a law, an amendment to the whole or what is being dealt with, but what is not in accordance with the Rules is that all the time available to the speaker is used to talk about an issue that is different from the issue we are dealing with. Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u14	Good morning, thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. My group goes on to say that it will vote against this amendment as a whole for a matter of principles beyond its political position, which is also inconsistent with what the PP proposes once again. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, why have you tabled this amendment in its entirety? Do you really think it makes any sense? Who do you want to content with this amendment in its entirety? Because if their proposal came forward, they would not only displease many people, but would turn many people into rightsless people; they would make some people, precisely those who have fewer rights and opportunities, because life has made them a much more complicated thesis than all of us, feel even more vulnerable and excluded. Would you like, given the case, and I hope that it will never occur to you, to access a country, by whatever circumstances, that you have just passed a law on the non-universalization of health like this? Don't tell me there are worse laws and situations, because I'm not worth it. Human rights are not questioned or negotiated, they are held. The right to health is something that responds to a humanist ideology, we are not able to understand it as something that you earn according to your situation, it is something you have. His proposal is not accepted by anyone who believes that the construction of a welfare State, a social State, must be governed by the principle of social justice, solidarity and not leave anyone in the gutter. I do not want governments or societies that, by going faster, leave many of their citizens behind because they do not arrive or reach faster speeds. This I heard to the legendary Ibarretxe: it is better to move forward slower, but move forward all. Thus we have created a socially advanced and exemplary country like Euskadi, leaving no one in the gutter. You, with proposals like the ones you bring us today, are trying to open up a widening gap. His brutal neoliberalism clashs head-on with what we, the PNV, so far left, right?, understand as the political sense of a society. Why do you put forward proposals like these, then patch up, in some way, with measures that you only do is to put conditions and obstacles to those who have enough to go ahead? This amendment to the whole would mean, if accepted, a return to the year 2012, when the famous Royal Decree 16/2012, which called into question the General Health Act and our Health Management Act, was published, as it takes up the old concept of the right to health care based on insured persons and beneficiaries in accordance with their employment situation in Social Security, breaking the principle of universality of assistance. That is the key, it is no longer the person who is the recipient of the right to health, it is the insured person, that is, the person who fulfils conditions linked to a concept. We made it known and we kept saying: it seems unworthy to us. With this royal decree, the principle of universality was broken and foreigners were left out of the system without a legal residence permit. And following the correction of this enormous political error through the current government with its decree, which became a bill and which was brought to the House, you want to return to a situation that has been criticized and questioned by autonomous communities, professionals, entities and associations, by NGOs, etc. Who do you want to convince with this unjust measure? To whom do you want to satisfy with this amendment? Will health problems be solved more diligently and satisfactorily by the people you take away the universal right to health? Do you feel more humane and supportive by taking these measures? Ask yourself these questions. In Euskadi we said no to its Royal Decree 16/2012 and by political and ethical principles we refuse to leave anyone without assistance. We set an example, like many others. They know that, if this were to go ahead, we would do it again, even if they again appealed to the Constitution. You also want to establish a health model by reducing the powers of the Autonomous Communities in favour of the National Social Security Institute. We will not accept any model that re-centralizes health, which, in addition to incurring serious competitive invasion, worsens it. As we have not tired of repeating, the objective, in its purely economic origin, did not even serve to collect anything; it did nothing more than put the staff of the Health Administration on a stand, generating problems that it should never have had. Health is nourished and paid with the general budgets, and it belongs to each citizen, not with social security contributions. Although the amendment to the whole covers some issues relating to the health care of this group, which are issues that have to do with public health and other aspects - perhaps as if they had certain remorse of conscience that causes them some discomfort to have to make this amendment -, they do so in the context of a rule that does not universalize health insurance, something that has been clearly pointed out from the Basque Group, from the PNV, from the Basque Government and from Basque society. Now, if you think that with measures like those you propose you will get the votes of those who think that the health for which you contribute - that you do not come from outside and take away hospital beds, you arrive without papers and want us to attend to you, they do nothing but steal us, etc. - it is that pettyness has no limit. Don't sugarcoat that bread because honey is going to be eaten by others who say more barbarity than you do. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u16	MPs, MPs, Minister, universal access to the National Health System, yes bluntly. At the time, in July, during the debate on the validation of the royal decree, we said that we could not vote in favour of such validation without it being treated as a bill and without the Spanish Government lifting the use of Catalan law. Both things have been done. It is true that there are certain procedures in the text that need to be corrected and that we hope that this will be done during the parliamentary process. If we review the text, we still have some element that could exclude people from this National Health System when the National Institute of Social Security would be the instrument to certify those three months of residence by undocumented citizens, but in this case I am sure that we will be able to overcome this type of drafting, as well as ensuring in the whole State that the regulations that occur go along with the will that no one, no one, no one is excluded from the National Health System. We are in this line; in fact, with the validity of Catalan law we ensure that this is so, that it is possible. After six years of passing this decree-law, we find it extremely serious that the People's Party is trying to resell falsehoods. The first falsehood that is repeated a lot in this Chamber is that who won the elections and who is to rule is the People's Party; in fact, he has done it by omission and not because it is so, because in this Chamber there is a majority contrary to the People's Party government, with or without allies. Who's decided this? The voters, the voters. Every Member here represents thousands of citizens, you call them Spanish and very Spanish, even there will be more or less, but all are citizens with equal rights and the representatives of these citizens in this Congress we have decided, partly by omission, to govern the Socialist Party, and you cannot allude again and again to this legitimacy. [[applause]] I am sick and tired of being called a coup player without any proof, of being insulted without any proof just because some electoral advisor has advised you that insulting Members of this House is profitable. There you are! You're disqualified. But there is something important today, reality is more important than its fiction. And what's the reality? Look, you have said that the reform you did six years ago was to save public health; instead you have not made any impact report in six years: the lie remains. They say that in Spain no one is left without health care, and we know of thousands of cases that in communities governed by you have been excluded. They say: Health is more universal than ever, and we know that you have taken 873,000 health cards!, this we do know. And they say: More than ever - please! And no flushing. Finally, they add, how not: Giving health card has a so-called effect, health tourism; on the contrary, migrant people are used to being young people who have less use of public health than any other. Therefore falsehood, however much it is repeated, is falsehood! Like the falsity of a coup and a coup d'état is falsity! And we'll say it whenever it takes. [[Applauds]] This law, this legislative change, is essential, but insufficient. We expect more from your ministry, and you can be sure that any action in favour of public health will, I am sure, have a majority of the Members of this House. Believe it! The only one, as I would say, element that sometimes makes me doubt is that you threw a secretary general because you didn't believe him. Lucky he's back! Because maybe more than two years ago we could have done the things that were needed in this country. Attention: Those who think that with lies they will make voters give them the vote the only thing they will get is to turn their backs. That is where we are; and not the amendment as a whole. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u17	Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u18	Thank you, Madam President. You are presenting here today, Mrs Angulo, an amendment to the whole. But it is, once again, an amendment to the whole of health as a right of citizenship, and for this simple reason we could not support it. We have defended and will defend health as a right of citizenship. It is also the amendment of equality because you insist on maintaining, as you did in your 2012 decree, different benefit portfolios for rich communities - for the communities to which you have given the 'cup' - that for underfunded communities, with debt. That is why we cannot vote for them either. [[Applauds]] It is, moreover, an amendment to all of your own policies, to your own exclusion policies because you try to fix with this the stalemate that the autonomous communities had to fix when you sent to emergencies the entire irregular population; and you recognize it in your amendment and try to fix it, with which it is not wrong from time to time to recognize some mistake. However, you no longer rule. Six months ago, the Government of Dignity has ruled us, so perhaps this is a good time, talking about irregular migration and health care, to review its policy and results. Don't worry, because I'm not a deputy of Podemos, I'm a deputy of Citizens. Because if I were a deputy of Podemos I would tell you that you are a murderous government that has multiplied by three the drowned in the Strait. But since I am a citizen's deputy and I will tell you that you have to strengthen surveillance and rescue in the Strait in order to prevent this catastrophe from continuing. [[Applauds]] If I were a Member of Podemos I would tell you that you are in breach of human rights, that you are an even more fascist government than that of Rajoy because in three months you have multiplied by two the expulsions that Rajoy made in five - from 16 000 to 8000 - but no, I am not a Member of Podemos; I will tell you that I am glad that you recognize that a sensible government has to enforce the laws, also the migration laws. [[Applauds]] If I were a Member of Podemos I would tell you that you are a criminal government that has not yet removed the concertinas; but since I am a Member of Citizens I will tell you that I am glad that we have secure borders and that I hope that you will soon find a more humane solution that will make the security of our agents and our borders compatible with humanity. [[Applauds]] I will not tell you about the Open Arms, that ship that you were going to patrol through the Strait and that today is anchored in the port of Barcelona; if I were a deputy of Podemos or the PSOE I would tell you that here is the solution to everything, in these budgets for a social state, this thing so curious that you signed. [[showing a document]] But do you know how much there is here for development policies in sub-Saharan Africa? Zero euros; for programmes of health aid and fight against Ebola, tuberculosis, HIV malaria, zero euros; to improve the rescue in the Strait, zero euros. And best of all, do you know what the impact of universal health care and the reduction of the co-payment here is? Zero. [[Applauds]] Perhaps this is the time to assess the impact that your Decree 7/2018 had, because we in that debate told you here: You lie, you have not given a universal card that you could not give; you lie, you have not given it - we told you here -; you do not ensure equality - we also told you here -; you have no requirements, and as you do not know whether to put requirements or not to put them because the requirements are incompatible with universal love, what did you do? Kick ahead and take it to the autonomous communities. Well, since it won't be me, it won't be this fascist deputy who's talking to you here today about IBEX 35, but Reder, the gentlemen you brought in to applaud you that day, the Defense Network against Decree 2012: Doctors Without Borders, Amnesty International. [[showing a dark photo of a face, and at the top read: REDER]] In this report they say that the health care situation after the decree has worsened. [[Applauds]] It has created more risk and vulnerability. You forgot about minors, pregnant women, asylum seekers, because, of course, as it was universal, as it was for everyone, there was no need to make specifications. You have left the migrants at the feet of the real horses. You are not a criminal government, no; you are simply cynics sold to the demagogy of populism and nationalism and, worse, incompetent ones. [[Applauds]] You are so incompetent that when I go to Valladolid, my city, I take an hour at AVE, but you need a Falcon, an Airbus and a helicopter. Get out of here! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u19	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm a member of Podemos, and Mr. Igea, even if I wanted to, could never be a member of Podemos. [[applause.-Rumors.-Various Members of Parliament for Citizens: You don't want to!]] This amendment to the whole is tiring. The position of the People's Party is obsessive so that our health system does not serve the entire population. Why does the People's Party have this obsession? First argument: In this rostrum are taught papers that from the last rows on many occasions they do not see; I will do the same, they do not see but perhaps by teaching them I encourage them to read them. [[showing some papers]] European Union Directive 2011 on cross-border care. You, who were very concerned about health care, about health tourism - I thought you would do the transposition at three months, at six months, per year - went to 2014 to do it, and less bad that you were worried; it took three years to do that transposition. They used an argument that was false, but as much as you repeat the argument is not going to be true, saying about health tourism; and the test is here, then I hand it over to you to see if that's how I encourage you to read it. [[Applauds]] Another argument is the terrible phrase of: sustainability of the system. - We've already said it here in this rostrum. In front of a patient with a pathology we have to wait for that patient to deteriorate enough to be treated at the door of a hospital. Is that cheaper than being cared for by a family doctor in a health center? That is a barbarity; this is the second argument that you have used; neither is the first nor is the second true. You have skipped everything: the Constitution, article 43, where the right to health protection is recognized and that the law will affect everyone - everyone -; the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, where health is a fundamental right. [[applause]] When you eliminated universal care, you also did not listen to professional groups, doctors, nurses or anyone else, even though they manifested themselves in our country. They will allow me to read them the statement of the World Medical Association: Everyone has the right without discrimination to appropriate medical care. When the rules of the Administration deny these rights, doctors must seek the appropriate means to secure or restore them, which is what many professionals in our country have done, to seek turns to care for the excluded population. [[Applauds]] That is one more in line, of course, with the European declaration of health professionals. So, what was the motive of this obsession with you? Why do they turn off health care from insurance? What is the motive, if the first argument is not valid and the second argument is not? It is clear which is the mobile, that is clear; they had to exclude from the health system what was not profitable by linking it to the insurance, so that the product that you transfer, and that you are transferring where you govern in the different autonomous communities, is a more solvent product; it is the preparation for our health to be parasitized with profitability guaranteed by some multinational, as has happened. On Tuesday, in an economic article, in a newspaper of these financial institutions that always intend to direct our country, I read that the royal decree was initially going to amount to 1 billion and, apart from other considerations that I am going to save myself, this positioning means that they do not like it because it is going to be less business if our health is universal. We already know in the last two or three years the capital that has landed in our country, the capital of multinationals that are settling down in recent times; but the business can end, eh?, it can end. We already know that these multinationals that are settling down don't even quote on IBEX 35, they quote on another stock exchange, but that issue we will leave for another day. Let us also hope that the legislative process will end with complete universality for the entire population. We are on it and we have also seen in the last few days that there have been statements in the press that universal health is not reaching the entire population now. My political group is on it and we will be vigilant so that in all communities, including those governed by the People's Party, no one stays out of health care. Our political group will be aware of this, that no one will be excluded, and we will work for a public health free of all business. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u22	Good morning. The truth, Mrs Angulo, is that you must recognize a touch that seems incomprehensible to me; because they do not give battles for completion even when they come to defend, once again being isolated, a policy of health exclusion that has no social or professional support. Mr Agirretxea wondered: Why are you bringing this amendment here? I think it has become very clear, Mr Agirretxea: because the People's Party has begun to use health to defend its xenophobic policies that are more like trumpism than Mrs Merkel's migration policies. [[Applauds]] The recovery of universal health has been an objective of the Socialist Party from the very first moment when you passed the decree of exclusion. It was the first bill we brought into this legislature that you, along with Citizens, blocked at the Congressional Bureau, and one of the first decree-laws passed by the socialist government, the government that fulfills its commitments. In April 2012, millions of Spaniards lost their individual and personal right to health care to acquire a right derived from a dependency relationship with a health right holder. Thousands of foreigners were excluded, who do not come to do health tourism, Mrs Angulo, come to look for a project of life fleeing catastrophes, violence and misery. You know that as a result of the Royal Decree-Law of 2012 when a marriage divorces the ex-spouse becomes a recognized health right based on his or her dependency relationship with the person to whom he or she has divorced, and that a boy or girl of age has a right to health care derived from the ownership of the right of his or her parents up to the age of twenty-six, and that persons who pay taxes, but do not contribute to Social Security lose their right to health care, something incomprehensible when the National Health System is financed by taxes and not by social contributions. We advocate a quality and universal national health system that caters to people according to their needs and to which they contribute according to their resources. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the difference between you and us: we defend the individual health card as an individual and personal right of all people, an individual card that was introduced by a socialist adviser for the first time in Spain shortly after the adoption of the General Health Act in the Basque Government, and you defend the Social Security card, in which there is a right holder and some people who are entitled to health care according to the composition of that family and depending - now we know - on the decisions that the Government can make to set limits on age or income level. [[showing a health card]] [[showing a Social Security card]] That is the difference between you and us: an individual and personal right or a right that depends on others. [[Applauds]] They introduced a counter-reform with improvisation, without justification, creating a lot of legal uncertainty. They passed the Royal Decree-Law in April 2012. The then minister, Ana Mato, gave a press conference that has already passed to the most grotesque annals of political communication, because she did not understand what had led to the interterritorial council or what his assistants blew on her back. It took twenty days to make a correction of five-page errors in the State's Official Gazette; they opened up the possibility of special agreements for those without resources who had to pay that no one had put in place, and those who had to withdraw them because they had absolutely no use, and those same agreements bring them back here today in their amendment; they set a revenue limit of 100,000 that the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional because they considered it arbitrary, and then, in the 2014 Budget Act, you tightened the nut even more by excluding young people from health care - I am talking about young people, because they are the majority - who leave Spain to seek employment, to practice a language or to study when they were outside Spain for more than ninety days. That is true, in 2013, Mrs Angulo, you gave the residence visa to those foreigners who bought a farm of more than 500 000 euros in Spain, and with that residence visa also came the health card, for them and for their descendants and their spouses, and in 2015 extended that right to the ascendants of the people who bought farms. Quite a paradox, isn't it? We give the health card to foreigners who can buy a luxury farm in Spain and we take it from the Spaniards who go abroad to seek employment or study a language. [[Applauds]] They challenged all the laws and decrees that passed the autonomies to avoid their exclusion, and even in communities governed by the PP did their own regulations and instructions, which allowed to continue to give health care according to different periods of registration, different levels of income; in short, that you introduced inequality where there was no inequality. The Constitutional Court made it clear that there was no justification, neither health nor economic, to exclude persons from the right to health care. It is true that he later gave you the reason that you had competence with the royal decree-law to exclude people from health care, but having competence, Mrs Angulo, is not to be right. There is also the large number of disputes: several higher courts have ruled in favour of persons who have come to Spain on the basis of their family reunification against the restrictive criteria that the National Institute of Social Security has been using so far. You yourselves recognized the failure of your health exclusion. Minister Alonso and Mariano Rajoy themselves announced that they would return the right to assistance to the undocumented because - they said - it is more practical for public health issues. Mr. Rubén Moreno, who sits in the ranks of his bench, said: It is that the door to the system is not the emergency, but the primary care. Well, this amendment to the whole reflects precisely that proposal that led to the interterritorial council trying to put some order in the mess, but never came to do so: the savings that the royal decree-law said there would be -1000 million - are nowhere to be seen. It is not true that this measure costs money; in fact, according to the latest AIReF report on the 2019 budgets, there is no forecast of the cost of this measure, there is no economic impact on the 2019 budgets, so I ask you to stop cheating. The exclusion of the right to health care has no health or economic justification and, on the contrary, must be a personal and subjective right because it is a duty of justice, it is health-friendly for all and it is a social demand that also provides legal certainty. They have the opportunity to join the consensus. I would like to be able to recognize the People's Party of 2003 which passed laws by consensus - I am sure that the President of Congress knows what I mean - a conservative party that joins the consensus for a quality public health. If you join, you will be welcome; if you do not join, the Socialist Party, together with the rest of the political forces, will continue to restore the rights that have been lost in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you to continue with the processing of the royal decree, which has been drafted as a bill, which will conclude with the restoration of universality in health care in our country. And I do so for reasons of responsibility as a Member State of the United Nations, which in December 2012 - when the royal decree-law is passed, which we now want to amend - adopts a resolution entrusting countries to walk, to move forward. It says literally: It encourages Member States, in collaboration with other stakeholders where appropriate, to plan or implement the transition of their health systems to universal coverage, while continuing to invest in health care systems. The Kingdom of Spain is a member State of the United Nations and we were then moving in the opposite direction to its recommendations. Our country also endorsed the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. Well, the Director-General of the World Health Organization recommends: Ensuring universal health coverage without impoverishment is part of the basis for achieving the health goals set out in the Sustainable Development Goals. But also as a country, whose Constitution establishes as a social and democratic state of law, it has been developing - now that we are celebrating the 40th anniversary of our Constitution - the social state with a legislative framework that I suppose we should continually improve instead of retreating. In this legislative framework which gives effect to the rights proclaimed in our Constitution with regard to health, I must recall the General Health Act 1986. Beyond trying to draw conclusions from the consequences of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 - which is now intended to be recovered with this amendment - I will stick to some of the objectives pursued by this amendment and clearly reflected in the text of the explanatory statement. It makes the argument that on the one hand public health, which is the competence, they say, of the autonomous communities, and on the other hand health care, which I have not been able to clarify whose competence it is. It comes to say that the coverage of undocumented foreigners is guaranteed because they are served in the public health system. This dualism of public health on the one hand - which depended on the Ministry of the Interior and which was exercised in the provinces by the provincial chiefs of health - disappeared with the approval of the General Health Act, which in its article forty-six covers the characteristics of the National Health System, of which, because I do not stop very much, I will mention only two sections: the extension of its services to the whole population and coordination and, if necessary, the integration of all public health resources into one device. This was said in the General Health Law, which consolidates the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System of 2003, which was a necessary, timely and convenient law at that time of transfer to the Autonomous Communities and in which this will occurs from the General Health Law of the single device. From then on, this unique device consolidates the concept that has been proclaimed since the United Nations and that, as I say, in the case of Spain is consolidated in the General Health Law and is formally ratified in the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System. Therefore, public health and health care cannot be segregated or separated. We must be consistent with the constitutional framework and do not re-segregate anything and overcome that function of Provincial Head of Health already very anachronistic and well before our Constitution. The General Health Law also said something that we now want to recover, and that is what it states in its article one: Spanish and foreign citizens who are resident in Spain are holders of the law. Question that the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System ratified as right holders as an insured person. These are two powerful reasons for the State to ask its lords to maintain the bill and to collect this universal legal attention. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress the great consensus among the health professions to maintain the universal right to health care and health protection. I would also like to recall a 2012 Court of Auditors report that said that health tourism was not a problem, which was the fundamental basis for arguing this exclusion of certain people from health care. Subsequent data confirm that report of the Court of Auditors. There is another issue that I would like to clarify as to the institutional framework, jurisdictional and financial distribution of the National Health System that I believe needs to be remembered and borne in mind. The Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System of 2003 states: 'Public funding of the National Health System, in accordance with the existing system of autonomous financing'. In other words, comprehensive care and health protection, which is our model, is financed by the autonomous funding system. I would like to remind you that the autonomous financing system consists of universal taxes, including VAT, IRPF, own taxes, assigned taxes, and everyone in Spain pays VAT and, to the extent of their abilities, IRPF or other taxes for their legal acts or for their consumption of hydrocarbons, etc. It is therefore contributing to the financing of health care. It is paradoxical that here, systematically, matters that have to do with insurance or membership of Social Security are brought back here, an issue that has been overtaken by the Spanish Constitution, the General Health Act and the entire legal, legislative and institutional framework that has been developing since 6 December 1978. There is another issue that I would like to point out for legal and institutional issues that they intend to incorporate with this amendment. I would like your ladies and gentlemen, please bear in mind that it prevents the portability of law between autonomous communities. When we are already going to achieve - because it is already ready - the interoperability of both clinical histories and health card throughout the Spanish territory, let us not again put limits on the portability of law between autonomous communities. This is also an issue that I urge you to bear in mind. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude - because I think it is essential - to the autonomous communities in the first place. In one way or another they have tried to solve this right deficit in some collectives, establishing formulas of different levels, in a very heterogeneous way, but trying to solve this problem. Although there have been appeals to the Constitutional Court for competitive reasons, the autonomous communities have been making an intensive effort. It is therefore my duty to recognize it. I would also like to thank the various groups that have been persevering in the demand for the recovery of the universal right to health protection and health care and, of course, the health professions. I have to admit that I am proud of my profession, of the medical profession, which has always taken a step forward in health care; they have left no one at the door of any office unattended. I thank your ladies and gentlemen for their speeches in defence of every point of view, and I ask you to take into account these issues that I have just spoken to you, which are a responsibility as a country, and I hope that the processing of the bill will be completed happily and promptly with the contributions and enrichment that your ladies and gentlemen consider necessary, but so that our country will return to the path of the countries that guarantee universal care, health protection and health care. I must also inform you that we have received, and have received personally, on the occasion of the United Nations Assembly, the congratulations of the international agencies on this fact. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u26	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2018 of 26 October, adopting certain measures to combat the illicit traffic in persons and goods in relation to the vessels used. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, today I submit to the consideration of this House the Royal Decree-Law 16/2018, by which certain measures are taken in the fight against the illicit traffic of goods, but also of persons who, as you will recall, were adopted last October 26 by the Council of Ministers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a highly relevant rule, and I would say that it is important, primarily in the area of combating drug trafficking, tobacco smuggling and also, in the light of recent events, unfortunately to prevent illegal immigration. It is a rule that allows the State Security Forces and Corpses and also the Customs Surveillance Service to be equipped with an instrument with which they can deal more effectively with the hard work - which we want to recognize from here - to prevent criminal organizations, both in relation to drugs and people, from having their reason to be. Therefore, in this royal decree-law it would be a question of classifying the so-called high-speed pneumatic and semi-rigid vessels, which in the popular slang we know as narcolanchas, as a prohibited genre. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u30	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u31	They are vessels that are being widely used for the smuggling of drugs and tobacco and, as I told you most recently, for the illegal trafficking of people, as we have seen in recent weeks. In fact, criminal organizations use these boats to quickly dispose of cargo on the beach that primarily carries hashish, cocaine and tobacco, and then to flee at full speed, making the intervention of the Security Forces and Bodies very ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know the circumstances, but it is happening that when the security forces detect the commission of a crime, they know that there are irregular substances in a vessel of this type, even when this situation occurs as a result of persecution, these criminals throw the goods overboard. When these circumstances occur and subsequently this vessel that has been involved in this crime is seized, the State Security Forces and Corpses have a complicated capacity to act, primarily against the bosses and crews, in criminal form or, in other words, there is some impunity over this type of vessel in which, when the goods themselves do not appear, because they have previously been disposed of, there is little room for action by the State Security Forces and Corpses. Perhaps the most serious thing is that these bodies do not have an instrument to enable them to intervene these boats, which continue to be used repeatedly by criminals for these illegal activities. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this situation generates a sort of feeling of impunity vis-à-vis the citizens, that you often see how these boats approach while on the beach quietly and, above all, they cause impotence and discouragement in the security forces that are entrusted with this task of repression of smuggling and drug trafficking and that they need additional complementary instruments in order to be able to be more effective. I know that the deputies of Andalusia, who are closer, are aware of this reality that occurs on the Spanish coast, more often in the area close to Gibraltar, because during the summer - we have seen the news - it has been witnessed and recorded by the bathers in which it has been possible to shape how a drug cache was produced in full daylight or how dozens of immigrants from these pneumatic boats were disembarked that immediately, once they arrived at the beach, they were fleeing at a high speed. To this important problem, of people and goods, we must add another that is also not smaller and that, as you will understand, is the risk that the boats will bring about maritime insecurity, insecurity for people who are bathing or for other boats that do circulate with absolute tranquility, because they often sail in the dark, that they reach high speeds and that they also do not have a signaling or tracking device. An example to which we have already referred in this House and which was fatal took place in May at Getares beach, in Algeciras, where a boat of this type rolled up a recreational boat causing the death of a nine-year-old boy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - I believe that the facts are clearly demonstrable - in this situation the Government was forced to act, so that in July we adopted a preliminary draft law amending the Law on the Suppression of Smuggling which intended to limit and put an end to the indiscriminate and uncontrolled use of these pneumatic boats and, in fact, declared themselves a prohibited gender and restricted its use. Since then, we have seen how the problem detected has increased with a new and more widespread use and in this case with respect to human trafficking, a circumstance which began to be anecdotal but which has become a new dimension of the problem, so that the Government has decided to act urgently to deal with it without any delay. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only give you some information on the impact of this measure so that you know the importance of this decree-law being validated. Between 2012 and 2016, the Customs Surveillance Service and the Civil Guard, alone in the Gibraltar Field, intercepted 93 semi-rigid high-speed airships and detained 326 people. In addition, there is evidence of 141 attempts to smuggle some 107 tons of hashish into our country, figures which do not include the numerous vessels that appear empty but which are reasonably suspected of being involved in drug trafficking. One more thing: over the past decade, the Customs Surveillance Service carried out Operation Marines against Money Laundering, which was linked to drug trafficking and which was based on the analysis of the owners of that boat, and I have to tell you that the results were spectacular. In fact, as a result of this investigation, 500 certificates were issued, 800 semi-rigid vessels were involved, as well as vehicles, real estate and financial assets totalling almost EUR 40 million. It coincided that the owners of these vessels were part of a network extended in drug trafficking in the area of Spain and which specifically supplied to southern Europe. I therefore believe that we cannot continue to turn our backs on a problem of this magnitude, because we need to improve the effectiveness in preventing and combating smuggling by carrying out seizure of these vessels even on land and even if they do not have an illicit burden, in order to be able to initiate the relevant sanctioning dossiers or make relevant complaints. That is to say, to separate the fact that one can only act when goods are found and to recognize that this type of vessel is used in a very high priority way precisely to be a contributor, to be a necessary measure for that goods to reach land or for people in illegal situations to do so as well. The rule that we submit to validation considers gender prohibited pneumatic and semi-rigid vessels with more than 8 meters of total length or, being smaller, having a maximum power, regardless of the number of engines, equal to or greater than 150 kilowatts. In the case of vessels other than those described above, they shall also be regarded as prohibited gender when it is established that there has been an offence and rational evidence that they will be used to commit or facilitate the commission of an act of smuggling. Among these indications is the significant modification of the boat to increase its power or when double bottoms are enabled within these boats, spaces that obviously aim to hide some kind of merchandise and which was not foreseen in the original design of these boats. The use of equipment or materials that hinder their detection will also be considered a criminal indication, i.e. that they inhale the frequency that allows us to know where the vessels that are at that time at sea are, because they are all indications that they are trying to conceal well from the Security Forces and Bodies, either in the face of situations of competition in smuggling that may be occurring in the area. Obviously, the vessels themselves used by the Maritime Safety and Rescue Forces and Corpses, which make use of these semi-rigid vessels, and those dedicated to national defence or the provision of certain public services, are out of this consideration. Neither will they achieve the prohibited gender classification of those who are recreational in private use, provided that they meet a number of requirements that are difficult and that put some variables in terms of technical safety or marketing. In any case, whoever the holder is or is used for what is used, it will be necessary for the holders to register in the Special Register of Air Boat Operators this type of vehicle or vessel, and it will be a unique record - this is the important thing - at the national level for the autonomous communities to be able to consult it and it will be located in the State Tax Administration Agency, on which it will be entrusted. There will therefore be a capacity to communicate this information among all communities in order to make the intervention of the security forces more effective. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a real decree aimed at dealing with a logistical means used profusely, indiscriminately and inadequately by criminal organizations engaged in drug and tobacco smuggling and most recently engaged in human trafficking. A rule which I hope will result in a greater effectiveness of the human means with which the State is empowered to combat this phenomenon and which will - I hope so - end up with the feeling of impunity that these mafias sometimes have, which use these vessels over and over again without the security forces being able to seize them or do anything. A sufficient reason, ladies and gentlemen, for the political groups in this House to vote in favour of supporting this royal decree-law. What is at stake, remember, is no more or less the safety and well-being of our citizens and the effectiveness of the State Security Forces and Bodies so that the fight against drug trafficking, drugs, or the fight against tobacco smuggling and illegal trafficking in persons is really a reality by giving these bodies the greatest possible instruments. It is in that task that I request your approval. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Finance. I will support the validation of this royal decree-law, which is necessary, because in Spain we urgently need to expand the legal instruments to deal with the proliferation of what in the slang is known as narcolanchas, which are nothing but private-use boats used for drug trafficking, tobacco smuggling and, in recent times, human trafficking. By the way, they're three criminal types or figures... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u34	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u35	... that are proliferating and, therefore, obliges the adoption of more and better means for their combat. While over the past few years there has been a gradual increase in the material means to strengthen the prevention, surveillance, investigation and repression of criminal organizations in order to narrow their space and pursue their movements, new legislation was also needed which, like the one just introduced to us by the Government, would help to provide us with greater and better security measures; indeed, those proposed today had already been announced by the previous Government. We have all seen aerial images of our patrol boats chasing boats whose crews are getting rid of the goods they transport before being arrested by police forces and police or customs services, we have even seen those boats slipping away or carrying out challenging ambushes and approaches thanks to the great power of their engines, as Minister Montero has recalled in defending this matter. On the basis of this new rule, such vessels shall have the prohibited gender status and may be engaged on land if there are rational elements or indications which, by virtue of their characteristics, demonstrate the intention to be used to commit criminal smuggling acts. However, we agree, and I shall therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u36	Thank you. Mr Guillaumes and Mr Ràfols have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with an interesting dilemma, a balance between freedom and security. We are talking about the prohibition, with some exception, of certain types of motorboats. When I read the decree for the first time I must confess that it seemed to me to kill mosquitoes with cannons; that is, we cannot ban certain kitchen knives just because they can have criminal purposes. From a liberal mentality perspective, I was somewhat rejected. Then I read the prologue of the decree, which is prolific, long, and there is the other pillar, that of security. We are talking not only about drug trafficking and tobacco trafficking, but also about trafficking in persons, and it is never wise enough when it comes not only to public health care but to human rights. Sometimes I say that in this Parliament we have what is called a tunnel effect. I, apart from the decree, would have liked to read studies that would justify much more the need to ban these types of motorboats, and the truth is I haven't found them. But in the face of such a dilemma, however prolific and persuasive the introduction of the law is, and also in view of the fact that the decree provides for systems of legal certainty that seem to us to be very correct, we will choose what we would call preventive prudence and vote in favour of the measure. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u39	Thank you very much, President. I'll speak briefly. We are now being validated by a Royal Decree-Law which provides for certain measures to combat the illicit traffic in persons and goods, the increase of which is the use of pneumatic and semi-rigid vessels of certain characteristics, through which the smuggling of certain genders has increased, in particular drugs and tobacco, and recently the illegal transport of African immigrants for their entry into Spain through their borders, mainly from the south. All this is entailing an added difficulty, as stated in the explanatory statement, to the public services responsible for ensuring that such illicit trafficking is not carried out and, in addition, a sense of impunity in citizenship and a risk to maritime navigation. [[The Lord]] To this end, it is provided for the classification as a prohibited genus of that type of pneumatic and semi-rigid craft, as well as of those of less than 150 tons of net tonnage, or any other pneumatic or semi-rigid other than the above, but that through a series of assessed indications the intention to be used for smuggling can be combined; a classification as a prohibited genus that is exempt for certain activities of individuals, provided that operators are registered and the use of each vessel is authorised by the public administration. The Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law because it considers that the measures it contains are generally appropriate for the purpose pursued, such as hindering the smuggling of goods and the illicit transfer of immigrants, but it must also be done without delay and as a matter of urgency. However, we also consider that the decree-law should be treated as a bill in order to reconsider some of its aspects, such as the determination of certain situations in which vessels must be declared as a prohibited genre in the light of competing circumstances which are based on indications that their fate will be to assist smuggling and that it will require, if such presumption is to be opposed, the reversal of the burden of proof. Moreover, as these indications are defined, it could lead us to find ourselves faced with manifestations of the so-called risk sanctioning right with very broad frameworks that should be better acquitted and valued more carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a regulation with criminal consequences. Nor is it moderately clear in the Decree-Law whether the lack of registration and authorization is remediable if it is proved that its effective use would be permissible, especially where, temporarily and after the entry into force of the Decree-Law, the current operators of vessels declared to be prohibited in the future have a period of six months to apply for registration in the register of operators and authorization of use in accordance with the Decree-Law, and especially where the silence on such applications for registration and authorization of use is provisionally understood to be granted. Finally, with regard to the latter issue, it should be considered by this House, through amendments, which appears to be a positive precautionary measure in favour of the applicant as long as it is resolved on his application for registration as an operator and authorisation for use. This is a clause that creates legal confusion with respect to the technique of license or authorization whose purpose is precisely to verify ex ante compliance with the legal conditions that allow the use. But it could also be interpreted as a possibility for the Administration to resolve against an act produced by silence, which is a regulation that violates an inveterable way of administrative proceeding and the regulation contained in the current Law 39/2015, of the common administrative procedure of public administrations. In any case, this is a provision which, together with others, should be clarified in order to avoid legal uncertainty in an activity that may lead to the commission of criminal offences. I am finalizing, President, expressing our support for the validation of the decree-law that we are debating, without prejudice to its processing as a bill. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. See, gentlemen of the Sanchist Party, before Socialist? This is a decree with real urgency; for this are the decrees, for an emergency. [[Applauds]] They are not to name friends, not to cancel institutions, not to occupy Spanish Broadcasting, not to compensate for an increasingly evident parliamentary weakness and not to bring budgets to this House. The decrees are for urgent matters and this matter is so, the reason is that the vessels used by drug traffickers in tobacco, narcotics and people are very powerful and it is difficult to reach them before they have carried out the discharge or launched the drug they carry. This has been denounced by the agents who have to deal with this situation and therefore consider this type of boat as a tool for drug trafficking and for the transport that the mafia carry out of immigrants, as proposed by this decree, is necessary. On the other hand, there is the risk to safety of having very high-powered boats maneuvering in areas with public, bathers or recreational boats, situations like last May at Getares beach in Algeciras, when a nine-year-old boy who was on a recreational boat with his father was crushed and killed by a narcolancha. The customer network of drug and tobacco trafficking is very extensive, there are many people who profit from this activity and have a deep penetration into the social fabric, 80% of the hashish that goes to Europe enters our shores; but imagine also the money that moves this activity and the violence that it entails. Do you think it's normal for a narco to be taken out by assaulting a hospital? Do you think it is normal that last May nine civilian guards, being out of service, were recognized by drug workers and beaten in front of their families? And all because in the Bay of Cadiz the narcos and their employees, which are thousands, have lost respect for authority and operate with impunity. In the face of this thesis, in the face of this panorama, what do you think the National Police and the Civil Guard are like in this area? Let us see with data what the governments of the People's Party and the Sanchist Party, formerly Socialist, have done at this time. The Algeciras police station has 495 officers and there should be 603 to have the full staff catalogue; 108 missing. The La Línea police station has a forecast of 324 officers and has 275; 49 are missing. The command of the Civil Guard in the Field of Gibraltar estimates that it must have a thousand agents, there are 850, there are 150 missing. In other words, there are 307 fewer officers in the area than necessary. When are they planning a police unit of permanent intervention? Populist Sanchists, when they were in the opposition, were asking for an integral plan for this area, had great ideas and wanted strong investments in personnel and material. It is true that Mrs Calvo will say that the person who said this was not the president of the government, but Calvinism aside, in order to be serious, why do they not equip the agents of the Gibraltar Field with personnel and means at once? And gentlemen of the People's Party, you go the other way, without any blush and the week you leave the government, you are asking for everything you denied while you could do so. And of course, you can also say that of: is that we are not now Government, in a sort of reverse Calvinism for the Andalusian campaign. [[Applauds]] Neither the People's Party nor the Sanchist Party, formerly Socialist, have done anything to prevent the Andalusian coasts from being the narco ecosystem. If they're using submarines now, what do we do, ban them? It takes political will to fight the narcos in my land, in Andalusia, give means, give cars, give boats, give protective measures to our agents, who, while, are harassed when they work and when they rest. Be a Government worthy of such faithful public servants, who are always willing to fulfill their duty until the last consequences. Narco cannot always take the lead in media to our State Security Forces and Bodies. With this decree they claim that they want to help agents in their work, do they really want to be a government that supports their police and their Civil Guard? Well, look, if that's the case, give our agents material means, equip the police station staff, encourage them to be respected, you know how? Not making partners of themselves who insult or call them thugs for defending the rule of law where secessionism wants to break it. They support the guardians of our freedoms; go to their tributes, in Cadiz or in Navarre, and if somewhere in Spain they beat the members of the police or the Civil Guard, are a worthy government and act in their defense, do not make their preferred ally to the one who receives the families of the paliceros. [[applause]] Do not confront those who support State agents. If you want to support public servants, correct; this decree is a form, but it is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be mistaken, it is unworthy to choose as allies those who want to take away the unity, equality and freedom to remain in Moncloa. It is unworthy of socialism, it is unworthy of a Government, it is unworthy of even the Government of indignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, when we are talking about banning what is being called narcolanchas, I want to begin by conveying my condolences to both the families and friends of those nineteen immigrants who have already appeared as a result of that patera that sank in Cadiz. We have to put an end to that drama, we have to put measures in place for that. Immigration is a horrible drama, and it's been told by someone who's had to live it on the beach. Some time again, unfortunately, I have had to guard some corpse of some creature that came from that area with many illusions, perhaps poor to take something to the mouth, but there are poorer ones here of conscience and humanity. [[Applauds]] It is true that here comes a measure, Minister, which is more than necessary and, therefore, we will support it, without as much populism as it has been making Citizens. [[Rumors]] And it comes late, because it's been asking for more than ten years, and it's motivated by the situation that's taking place in the Gibraltar Field especially. I believe that for Andalusian Members, as you have said, it is very important, but not for all Andalusian Members, because the People's Party has been dismantling the State Security Forces and Bodies for ten years. Today we have 20,000 less police officers in Spain and, therefore, it is not the same for some than for others. But we must also make self-criticism. The consequence of what is being experienced today in the Gibraltar Field stems from a failed policy. First, the invisibility to which the Field of Gibraltar has been subjected; its citizens are tired of being worn on the televisions and on the pages of events, because the vast majority are honest people, people who work, who are early in the area of the Field of Gibraltar to search for the Habichuelas, as we say there, and I think that something will also have to see that policy from the Andalusian Junta, from the central Government, in the last forty years of bipartisanism. That is, that Andalusia is the community that has the biggest school failure will also have to do with the lack of opportunities for many young people in those municipalities where unemployment data reach 70% and where there are municipalities of all colors that are practically bankrupt. I believe that it is also important to address it here today. More civilian guards and more police are needed in the Gibraltar Field, but above all more jobs are needed, so that this is not a breeding ground where organized mafias do their business; that is important, and that comprehensive plans do not sleep after the dream of the righteous in a drawer, as is often said. The Andalusian Board has on several occasions promised a comprehensive plan, and I believe that this measure, which is good, should be accompanied by a comprehensive plan for the Gibraltar Field area. Look, I'm going to give you an example that you understand very well. In terms of infrastructure, if the Algeciras-Bobadilla railway had started thirty years ago, today the port of Algeciras would be the most important in Europe; not one of the most important, but the most important. We have had time and, like this measure comes ten years late, the same goes for the Algeciras-Bobadilla. It is important to put an end to unemployment and, of course, also to have more and better staff; or to improve judicial remedies, that judges in the province of Cadiz have mountains of diligence that cannot attend due to lack of resources. It is important that we work in a way that would be and, from my parliamentary group, we offer them the support to make a pact of state, of consensus, without partisans, without making a policy of the situation that is suffering and that lives the Field of Gibraltar to make an integral plan of truth, to think about people. This measure comes empty of content; which is important, but then what do we do, we also ban aircraft using drug traffickers? It is that in the province of Cadiz the drug already enters through aircraft also, and in fishing boats, that some have been seized with drugs, and in recreational boats; that is, in the end it is a collage, but we also have to go to the root of the problem to see that there is a huge problem; a problem of jobs, of dignity, of a failed policy that, among all, we have to turn to this situation in the Field of Gibraltar. Look, in 2004 myself, when I was at the Unified Association of Civil Guards, I made a report on the security situation in the Gibraltar Field; in 2004, 14 years ago. And then we were talking about the situation now. There is a letter from the CNI of 27 October 2003, in which it said that drug trafficking money financed jihadist terrorism. In the year 2003! That is, we have had time to work; and not to dismantle as the People's Party has done, saying: here there is no need for civilian guards, in that part that they like to privatize the public, and then they hit the chest, put the flag very big, etc.; but here is where the homeland is also seen, in rescuing people. I mean, it's very important to put an end to drug trafficking, but not just police measures, which I agree with - I'm a civilian guard, what I'm going to tell you - but we also need to boost the investigation units, which are under minimum. Yes, the staff is covered, but it turns out that the job catalogue is twenty years ago; it is covered according to the needs of twenty years ago, so we have to update it. The important thing, and you know it because she is also Andalusian, is that we have to get to work in a real and effective way, and even if these measures are necessary, we must not patch up but work to make a real comprehensive plan for all our people in the Gibraltar Field, who are in unemployment, lack of infrastructure, training policies and many other issues. Let us start working in a real and effective way with the consensus of all political parties to get the Gibraltar Field out of that situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u45	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for urgently addressing a need and for facilitating such an important solution for the Gibraltar Field and for those 600,000 people who have undermined their development and progress due to smuggling, drug trafficking and recently also human trafficking. Thank you. I believe that we should start by sending a positive message to the citizens of the Gibraltar Field that we cannot get out of hand with their progress, their future and their dignity, and that there will therefore be unity on the part of all political groups in the face of initiatives that will promote the dignity and development of the Gibraltar Field. That is why I call for unity, for solidarity and for the transfer of hope to the people who live there. As Europol says, this is a very difficult point: 50% of worldwide trafficking in hashish is seized in the Strait, 75% of all Europe. A hot, hard spot. The Minister has also provided data on this matter. Those I have say that in recent years - from 2012 to 2018 - 165 tons of hashish have been seized, 81 vessels have been intervened and 282 people have been arrested. A hard point, a very hot point. And I also want to convey a message of recognition to those who work there, because they do so taking a lot of risk, Police, Civil Guard, Customs Surveillance Service. [[Applauds]] These are very hard jobs, where there is a lot of risk and these workers are entitled to better working conditions. The government can be criticized, but I do not think it deserves it in this matter. In four months of government, a special security plan has been put in place in the area, with an injection of EUR 7.7 million, EUR 5.5 million to cover the entire workforce, not as has been said here, but the entire catalogue of jobs in the Civil Guard and National Police, and to increase the number of customs guards by 30 per cent. The rest, up to seven and a half million, will also be devoted to material and technical means: seven vehicles, drones, a new helicopter and semi-rigid vessels have been purchased. Therefore, the Government cannot be told that it has not acted, please. Let us appreciate in conscience what is being done and help to make it even more because much remains to be done, because there is still that point; we continue to have these difficulties, we have those 300,000 people who have mined their future and who need the support of all, but let us recognize the effort. The spokesman for the Government also recently announced, last June, a comprehensive plan for the entire region because this must be addressed from a social, economic and welfare point of view. The Andalusian Board has committed itself to making a special effort to provide more public health services, such as the hospital in La Línea, and to undertake housing rehabilitation programmes. In short, the compromise has to come on the part of everyone and there has to be a political unity, which is fundamental to addressing that red tension point where those 300 000 people who are entitled to progress, development and well-being, as well as the rest of Spanish citizens, do not deserve to live. The content I'm not going to repeat. It is a question of prohibiting the possession, construction of rubbers, as they call them, of narcolanchas, which are Formula 1 at sea: they reach 130 kilometers, at 60 knots, and the state security forces in many cases - Maritime Rescue, Customs Surveillance - cannot reach them because they have no technical means, but they are already being provided with them. They are boats that act recklessly, dangerously, because they endanger the lives of those who pursue them; they do not act alone, one carries the goods and three are dedicated to hindering the persecution of agents of authority. They therefore deserve our recognition. This is a very important legal tool because we must seize these rubbers, these narcolanchas; we must prevent others from being used, because they can be legalized through that registration. I therefore believe that we must value that tool and thank the Minister herself for introducing it as a matter of urgency. A preliminary draft law that was dealt with in July on the amendment of the Organic Law on the Suppression of Contraband has fallen short and, given the harsh and dramatic circumstances of human trafficking, the minister has obviously had enough sensitivity to deal with this urgently because it is something that is more than proven and that no one questions. And I want to say that it is already having effect: when this royal decree was in force, since 28 October, a judicial process was launched against three persons theoretically smugglers who needed the help of Maritime Rescue in a boat; they are already immersed in a judicial procedure, but obviously they have been seized from that rubber, which will not allow them to use it again for smuggling. I ask - and I conclude - unity, consideration, solidarity with the Campo de Gibraltar, but I also ask for a sense of state and a fair assessment of these advances that are being made in recent months because before there were many announcements but no execution, they remained in mere announcements by the Government of the People's Party. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Pelayo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to speak in the rostrum on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and I am going to make a different speech from that of the Members who spoke before me. First of all, I must say that I am deeply proud to be a Member of Parliament for the province of Cadiz. It is a very beautiful province, very rich, very plural; a province, above all - and I think that today more than ever we have to say it - full of hardworking people and very honest, but a province that suffers, it is true, the drama of immigration, and I say the drama of immigration because, really, immigration is a drama. Today we come to validate a decree regarding the illegalization of narcolanchas. The Government justifies the illegalization of narcolanches - something my group obviously shares - in which they are an instrument used by the mafias of drug trafficking and human trafficking, but I do not think that we can equate the two realities. Immigration is a drama and we are living it these days. The province of Cadiz wakes up one day yes and one day also with the awareness that there are dead immigrants on the coast. There have recently been 19 dead, 19 people who put their lives in the hands of the mafias, to whom they each paid 1500 euros to bring them, in theory, to a better world. What they didn't know was that this world was going to be their end, death, because they were coming on corroded wood patters. That is something that none of us here can allow or tolerate and it is something that alone justifies that we support the validation of this decree and, of course, let us do much more, which I am going to talk about now. But we also have another reality, which is a tragedy, that of the drug mafias. I want to treat this issue differently, because the drug mafias, of course, are not a drama, they are criminals, criminals to whom the Gibraltar Field has been raising their voice for more than thirty years, together with the People's Party, the State Security Forces and Corpses and the Customs Surveillance Services. We must not forget that, together with the State Security Forces and the customs services, the good people of the Gibraltar Field have been rising up against the reality of drugs for more than thirty years. They will deduce from my first words that the People's Parliamentary Group is going to support the validation of this decree, but I also add one more reason, and it is that the People's Party, specifically the Spanish government of Mariano Rajoy, had committed itself to illegalizing the narcolanchas and had begun work for such illegalization. Today, therefore, we are completing the realization of a promise by the People's Party and the Spanish Government of the People's Party and of the work initiated by that Government. From there, what do I tell them? That's not enough. We believe - and I say this from the heart - that against the trafficking of drugs and people is not only fought against a coup d'état - I repeat, only against a coup d'état - nor against the imposition of more police and more civilian guards. Obviously, more police and more civilian guards are needed - possibly the number will never be enough - but the Gibraltar Field needs more, it needs serious action. In the Field of Gibraltar there is talk - and the People's Party supports it 100 percent - of the need for a comprehensive plan for the Field of Gibraltar. Why is that comprehensive plan being requested from the Gibraltar Field? Because the reality of drugs appears there in 2008, when the economic crisis arises. From employment to high unemployment rates, drug bosses in Africa, Morocco, discover that they have a magnificent logistics distribution platform in the Gibraltar Field. There are no drug bosses there; the drug bosses use the Gibraltar Field as a subcontract, as a logistic platform to take the drug from Morocco to Europe. What does the Gibraltar Field offer as a logistics platform to the bosses? It offers services of drug care, transportation through the narcolanches, follow-up to the Civil Guard... The important thing - I insist - is to go to the origin, to the bosses. Of course, everyone involved in the drug trafficking process must be stopped, but the boss must be stopped, we must go to the source, and for that - I insist - European cooperation is also needed. Why do we ask for the comprehensive plan? Because we believe that only if the Gibraltar Field is supported by security measures, which are important, but also by other measures - to which I shall now refer - will we put an end and stop to the mafias. First of all, what does a comprehensive plan mean? It means everyone's plan. What worries me is that every time you talk about an integral plan I only hear police measures - which are necessary, I insist, I don't want to confuse anyone - and an integral plan means a plan of everyone and a plan of everything. Everyone's plan, what is it? Involving not only the Government of Spain but all the administrations - Junta de Andalucía, Commonwealth, municipalities -, having the consensus of all the political groups and, of course, listening to civil society, because out of respect it deserves to be heard, because it is who has been facing the mafias for thirty years. What would that guarantee us? First, that the plans are developed and, above all, that the measures can be effective because they are coordinated and shared by all. Secondly, what measures do we propose? Obviously, security measures, which I am not going to enter again because there is much talk here about them. We congratulate the State Security Forces and Bodies on their work, but we need the Gibraltar Field to become a priority, and it is not so when we talk about it and we do not talk, for example - you said, spokesman for the Socialist Party - about housing rehabilitation. Do you know how long they haven't rehabilitated homes in the Gibraltar Field, specifically in The Line? No rehabilitation plans have been implemented since 2009. Do you know that, in particular, in La Línea the social or VPO housing that has been built has been carried out by the city council and not by the Junta de Andalucia? Do you know that in La Linea, for example, the construction of an institute or a school of children and primary school has been denied, claiming the Andalusian Board that there is no demand when it is the province with the highest rate of early drop-out and school failure? If we want jobs, there will have to be training, but also a quality of life environment. Do you know that you have opened a hospital in La Línea that does not have enough specialists? Therefore, now that it seems that the circle has been closed - the Socialist Party governs in all the administrations that affect the Field of Gibraltar -, get excited, meet each one with the competences that belong to them, that the Board of Andalusia moves to the Field of Gibraltar. Do not leave out this comprehensive plan that we are putting before the Andalusian Board, because if you leave it out you will have the perfect excuse to wash your hands another thirty years and forget about the Field of Gibraltar. And if we want there to be no drugs, if we want there to be no mafias, if we want there to be no trafficking in drugs or people in the Gibraltar Field, we need a strong Gibraltar Field, a Gibraltar Field that advances in employment, in equal opportunities for all and, ultimately, in quality of life. That is what we believe: more policemen, yes, but more rights also for the Field of Gibraltar. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs García Pelayo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u49	The next item is the debate on all legislative initiatives. First, discussion of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Valmaña Ochaita.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor to defend the amendment to the whole of the People's Group to the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, for the repeal of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code and the inclusion of some provision purporting to eliminate the effects of the application of that article once repealed. The first thing I want to tell you is that, please, you do not understand our amendment as being insecure or foolish, something that would be perfectly legitimate if it were done in defence of ideas, values and, above all, and above all, in defence of citizens' rights. Our amendment must understand it as what it is, an opportunity; an opportunity to reflect again on an approach which we believe to be radically wrong, which we believe to be detrimental to workers' rights and which we believe must be revised to start, in the possible need for its reform, from the same precept, from the same law and not from the dynamism of the law. It is, therefore, an opportunity. In the spirit of the proponents who drafted this proposal for a law, I believe it was not - I believe - to harden the punishment of the workers, to reinforce an exacerbation of the punishment of these behaviors and to punish them more harshly. Frankly, I don't think it was his spirit, but of course things have to be done right for them to have the desired effects and not the opposite effects that they claim to have. As we believe this initiative is - it has been in society, on the street - the product of action and reaction, but not of sufficient reflection, we re-introduce the issue through the opportunity presented to us by the amendment to the whole. This is a second opportunity for them to join us in defending workers' rights, the real defence, beyond demagogicism, beyond maximalist approaches that can result in the street, but that do not work either in the Criminal Code or in the Courts of Justice. That is why - I ask you in advance to forgive me for the petulance of the quote - I ask you to resume the 'we said yesterday' by Fray Luis de León, who is so present, so close to us, even in this Chamber, and I ask the parliamentary groups to focus the debate on the protection of workers' rights instead of deceiving them, using them and then abandoning them to their fate. If we rule out the reform and bet on the repeal, we bet on a tightening of penalties in the face of proportionality in the pursuit of criminally relevant conduct. That's a fact. Demagoguery can be done, but the reality is that the repeal would immediately bring the harshness of the penalty to apply to those who carried out such conduct. As I told you on the previous occasion that I went up to the rostrum in relation to this issue, your proposal, that action-reaction without reflection, is a mirage of decriminalization, because it does not really achieve that decriminalization. You yourselves, the proposing group, in your intervention on 16 May last year, acknowledged that the conduct now contained in article 513 of the Criminal Code would never go unpunished; you yourself recognized it in your intervention. From this recognition let us reflect, think and apply the knowledge of the law, which provides us with the most authoritative doctrine, to determine what must be the way forward to achieve a more just goal. I agree that the right to strike is a right that must be protected, it must be protected in action and also in the omission of conduct that disturbs or hinders it. Moreover, it seems to us that this legitimate instrument, from whose hand the great social advances have often come in our country, must be used freely - with freedom for workers who want to support it, of course - in a very radical way and with the very harsh penalties laid down in articles 315.1 and 315.2 of the Criminal Code, special crimes against the basic type of coercion of article 172 of the Criminal Code, harder crimes, but, not to be mistaken, also crimes punished with less harsh penalties: special but privileged type, 315.3. These are types that increase the penalties for which it prevents the strike, but that provide a lower penalty for those who prevent, in parallel, the right to work. Why do I say that? Because from the analysis of the criminal types we see that if we immediately derogated from this article those two conducts would be shifted to two other articles. They could move - it would be very serious - to 315.2 itself, for a very simple reason, because the punishment of the negative aspect of this right to work would be introduced, from the disappearance of that aspect expressly defined in 315.3 to 315.2: very severe penalties, up to four years, more serious than those that exist right now. But it is that, even if that was not the majority interpretation, the one that you propose is that of 372.1, that is, the same penalty that now stands for 315.3, the same penalty but not the same conduct, because the conduct that now stands for 372.1, that is, the crime of coercion for those who participate in a picketing carried out violent acts, with physical violence, to impose, secondary or start a strike, is now restricted the punishment in 315.3 - crimes against the rights of workers - for those who act in group and in the face of a plurality of passive subjects do that coercion; plurality of active and passive subjects, therefore a single crime. However, if we break that criterion, what we will be doing is giving the judge the opportunity, through the rules of the competition, to punish each of the conducts with respect to each of the victims. Do you want to translate what that means to workers who are not being told the truth? They are being told that the penalties will be increased because of this criminal contest. Look at whether we believe in what is really proposed - that the excess in the exercise of a fundamental right, the anti-legal excess, the illicit excess, must be penalized precisely for the protection of all workers, and I believe in that we all agree - which we even propose - so that it becomes clearer, so that the judges receive a genuine interpretation by the legislator of what must represent a real proportionality of the penalty - to lower the minimum degree, to increase that margin of discretion. We are aware that with this proposal we are breaking the proportionality between the coercions and the coercions that occur in the exercise of fundamental rights. We are aware of this, but in spite of that we prefer to make a proposal that reduces the minimum penalty so that that language is drawn up in a clearer way. Please do not deceive; please do not deceive the workers by using them for fiction, to tell them that something is going to be done that is not going to be done, and do not confuse them, because I want to think that all of us oppose violent behaviors, also those exceptional violent behaviors that, in the name of the right to strike, some specific people do. I will never support such violent behaviors, I will never defend such violent behaviors and, moreover, I will never demand impunity for such violent behaviors, but what I do want is for this Parliament to transfer to public opinion the need for such a reconciliation between the right to freedom to work and the right to exercise the right to strike in its positive and negative aspects, that balance, to be translated into a constitutional interpretation not only of the law - in the words of Terradillos Basoco - but also of the constitutional interpretation of law enforcement. Let us go down that path, let us go down that path, but let us not use a wrong path, a crooked path that leads us to those unwanted consequences. I am holding hands with you for this, and also with an important issue. Please also tell the truth as to the effect that the review of sentences in relation to offences that are intended to be repealed would actually have; or it would have no effect, or we would be faced with a covert amnesty for those currently punished for these offences, but not for those who will be punished in the future. Therefore, let us be honest, be sensible, be consistent and not try to confuse public opinion with effects, with deception or with t-shirts, because we are talking about amending the Criminal Code, which is the most effective, toughest instrument if you want, but also more rigorously protecting the fundamental rights of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valmaña. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u52	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is curious that the political and media right has always given a cultural battle of words, in addition to a tremendously efficient way; they change and trivialize concepts and with them, in addition, they pervert reality. Let me give you an example of this, because criminalization is a tremendously effective instrument for what I am telling you: the use in this House - recently quite repeated - of the term coup d'état referring to what happened in Catalonia. To deform reality to such an extent is tremendously dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, insulting the history of this country. In this House there have indeed been coups d'état. I also propose a game to you, ladies and gentlemen: whenever anyone is tempted to use these words, you just have to look up and look at those little holes, and from there you come to your own conclusions. Why do they make these kinds of moves? It is very simple, because they need to legitimize a whole series of proposals that, if they were not altering reality, would be absolutely unacceptable. That is why you criminalize the right to strike, because it bothers you, because strikes lead basically to changes and because you need to create a framework in which repression is basically acceptable. [[Applauds]] It is no coincidence that the persecution of the right to strike and the criminalization of those who make it possible began basically and took place in 2012; it is no coincidence that it happened just when, as a result of the so regressive unjust policies of the People's Party, the social pressure and social response on the street were substantially increased. In the face of the dismantling of the welfare state, strikes and protests grew, and the People's Party needed not only the obvious, to suppress and silence criticism in this case, but also to equip itself with a new mental framework of repression that justified cuts and accepted the suppression of rights, a framework that legitimized policies contrary to the interests of the majority of the citizens of this country, and nothing more effective, of course, than criminalization and hatred, ladies and gentlemen. The right wing of this country has invited us to hate and fear certain collectives by eliminating any bond of solidarity and empathy between people. They did so with the officials; they explained to us that they were vague, malevolent, inefficient people, who duplicated tasks, etc., ultimately inefficient and easily replaceable. They also did so with the teachers; how they thought about having a vacation and on top of having the disdain of wanting to use them, enjoy them. They also did so with the miners - subsidized, anachronistic, dirty people - and even associated it with tremendously violent images. Why? Because they basically dared to fight for their rights and to fight for the continuity of work in their peoples. They began to use the term privilege instead of law. They did, for example, when they talked about wages that were above average, vacation or leave. They faced temporary workers with those who had more stable days claiming a supposed competition of interests. They also did so with the stovemen, who in this very room had to endure how they were insulted and slandered, because some were annoyed that they did not lower their heads and continue to be organized. And, of course, they had to go after the unionists, bad people, in fact, probably the worst for you. This framework, where rights have become privileges, where decent wages are a kind of anomaly to celebrate, where holidays are a privilege and where people who organize themselves to fight for their rights are dangerous and violent energizes, leads us to the individualization of the conflict. Some would like rights to be mere freedoms, abstract freedoms recognized in some role, but dispossessed of any kind of mechanism that would enable them to be effectively implemented. Look, criminalization is the strategy to legitimize regressive policies, contrary to common sense and the interests of the majority. In this context, I explain to you where the People's Party recovers article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, an article that basically covers the crimes of coercion perpetrated by pickets and companies - companies too, which always forget it -; a cynical article, ladies and gentlemen, anachronistic and, moreover, absolutely unnecessary, which has led to hundreds of people through tortuous, totally unnecessary criminal proceedings, also exercising a constitutional right. We approve of this plenary's consideration of its reform. There have been fifty-three extensions of enlargement of amendments, and today the People's Party is presenting this amendment to us as a whole. It is a proposal that clearly demonstrates its intention, that it is to continue criminalizing and that there is such a criminalization, because it does not matter the penalties, what matters is that there is a mechanism for criminalizing pickets. Article 315.3 is cynical, because it equates pickets, i.e. workers, to enterprises, and that makes no sense. The capacity and coercing instruments that many companies have and use have no point of comparison with those of workers. It is an intrinsically unequal relationship between workers and entrepreneurs; intrinsically unequal, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me an act of realism, for those who walk astray. The most effective picket in any general strike, the most violent, is that of the employer, ladies and gentlemen, who coerces, threatens and violates constitutional rights, rights which, by the way, seems to be that you, the People's Party, care little or nothing. [[Applauds]] Where is the People's Party when companies violate constitutional rights? Where is he? Where is it when workers report coercion in this case? Where is he? They also start many days before the strike; they start with whispers, with comments, with looks, with threats. Anyone who has a temporary contract knows perfectly well that if he or she decides in favour of attending a strike, he or she will not renew his or her contract. It's something we know and know. Interestingly, there are no cases of employers being tried by coercion. Cases charged with the offence of article 315.3 are trade unionists, men and women without a criminal record who have committed the offence of fighting for their rights and for those of their peers. It is also a ridiculous article, ladies and gentlemen, because it is trying to generate an image of absolutely apocalyptic pickets, which, if I may say so, does not resemble reality at all. I don't know how many of you here have ever participated in a picket on a day of general strike, but if you had done it on some occasion you would know that most of the time you spend on a picket is boring and that in the days of general strike what happens, mainly, is a lot of sleep, ladies and gentlemen, a lot. It's hours of waiting and control, I repeat, control. The Constitutional Court - I do not say this; it is not my opinion - recognizes that strike is a right of individual ownership, but that its exercise, as it cannot otherwise be, can only be collective, of course. It includes the powers of information, publicity and extension through the persuasion of other workers as an essential part, says the Constitutional Court, of the content of the law itself. The pickets, ladies and gentlemen, are fundamental, because the right to strike is collective exercise. They basically serve to give effect to the right to strike, so that it can be exercised freely, because, ladies and gentlemen, the rights are not fulfilled just by evoking them, we must be able to guarantee them, and that is what pickets do in a general strike. They become the excuse for thousands of workers in this country who cannot exercise the right to strike, because they play their job, ladies and gentlemen, in this case they have the possibility to exercise that right, which, I insist, is constitutional. Article 315.3 is also deeply anachronistic, and that is what surprises me most about its exposure, totally unjustifiable in a democracy. It is a late-offrancist fossil, if I may say so, and it is born of the Criminal Code of Primo de Rivera of the twenty-eight, and this has to be known by the people; from there comes, from the twenty-eight year, it recovers in the seventy-six and incomprehensiblely remains in the Penal Code of the ninety-five. It was born basically in a context of repression, in a context where the strike was basically illegal. How can it be justified that in a democracy, where essentially the right to strike is a fundamental right, this Francoist fossil of the twenty-eighth year should be maintained? It doesn't get in my head. [[Applauds]] One might ask why before 2012 we had never heard of this fateful article; it is very simple, because it had never been used. It was from 2012, when the People's Party had the need to basically suppress social mobilization, when an instruction was given to the prosecutor's office and it acted. That's what happened, an instruction to the D.A. The curious thing is that there is no basis for the increase of criminal repression, because the accent is placed on pickets when the contrasted violations come basically on the part of the company. In fact, the prosecution's actions against the main sources of coercion that exist in a strike, which are, I insist, those perpetrated by the employer, are not known. The result? More than 300 trade unionists were accused of exercising, I insist, a constitutional right, regardless of the evidence or the facts or fundamental rights or absolutely nothing; I myself could be perfectly accused, because what was being pursued there was essentially the right to strike, nothing else mattered. The eight of Airbus, Jorge Merino and Pablo Alberti, of La Rioja; Lola and Gonzalo, of Malaga; Catiana, of the Balearic Islands; Ricardo, of Barcelona, in whose judgment, for example, was the driver who allegedly coerced in a terrible way, and this one did not even recognize him; Rubén Sanz or José Manuel Nogales, of the Loyalty, of Madrid. There are so many that it is impossible to reflect all the names of men and women who have gone through these criminal proceedings unjustly. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the most funny thing of all is that it is an extremely unnecessary article, because coercion must obviously be subject to punishment, of course, and that is why it is contained in articles 171 and 172 of the Criminal Code. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is not whether we are in favour of or against coercion, of course not, the question is whether there should be a specific type for pickets. That is the question, and of course not, in democracy. Our legal order today is criminalizing those who promote and guarantee a fundamental right; the criminalization of pickets is a real barbarity, and also the savage disproportion of penalties and the use of the Penal Code to suppress social protest. They talk about the right to work, and that is all a joy - for me, really - but it is a very short joy, if I may, because some only remember the right to work on days of general strike, just those days. The generic criminal type of coercion already makes it possible, in fact, to protect freedom in this case from strikes, and in this case there is no second chance for strikers. The sentence imposes imprisonment even if it is the first crime you commit in your life, which is very curious, because our legislation today is more benign with reckless murder or sexual assault, even in the case of minors, than with strikers. The constitutionalization of the right to strike is one of the most important elements, absolutely key to the pact in this case of the welfare state, because it democratizes it, ladies and gentlemen. Criminalizing, demonizing strikes, treating them as a kind of social pathology or repressing them has never avoided their exercise, ever, and no matter how much they are repressed they will continue to exist and there will continue to be strikes. They will not prevent them from existing, in any case the only thing they will achieve will be to extremise their exercise and further aggravate its consequences. The 315 must be reformed. We discussed in the presentation - as it should be - the articulated one, but in this case I ask all the parties that voted in favour and that allowed the processing of this bill to prevent this amendment to the whole prosper. The right to strike is a key element in analysing the democratic quality of countries, and in this country it is at stake. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that I did not intend to use this time of reply, because as I have actually explained to you our amendment to the whole was a hand-out, a proposal for reflection. It is clear that with some it is difficult to reflect, because they come with the usual mantra, even if that mantra really implies demagogy, deception or lies. Look at all the tricks and lies directly. They're saying the People's Party makes punitive increases, uses criminalization... Look, no, no; the 1995 Penal Code did not have even more severe penalties than it actually envisaged thanks to an amendment by the People's Party in the Senate, which limited them. But it was also in 2015 that the People's Party made a reform that reduced prison sentences, and also gave the option of imposing fines. It is the People's Party, once again, that has come to limit punitive exacerbation in certain contexts. [[Applauds]] But it is that, look at the paradox, it is still the People's Party that proposes that, because everything you are saying conveys two very dangerous messages to the population, and I have to tell you, because you can adorn it with rights, with guarantees and with things that really have no foundation, because they are false, because you are creating an appearance of truth without any sustenance, without any substratum, without any basis. You're fooling people when you tell them, you can do violent acts because we have decriminalized violent pickets, which are the only ones punished in 315.13. Just those. And you're saying that anyone can perform violent behaviors because they're already decriminalized, and it's a lie. But the message is dangerous for those potential victims, those people who feel helpless when they think that others, others have to be allowed to do it, they have to be allowed to close their shop, their small business, their bakery, their pub, because all this has no consequences. It lies, it has consequences in the civil sphere and in the criminal sphere. And if you don't review the 2016 Constitutional Court ruling, very recently. And they are also deceiving the workers themselves who may be tempted to raise the intensity of their action on the picket because they believe they have a false sense of impunity. You are encouraging violent behavior when you are telling them that this is not going to have criminal consequences. It is going to have them, and they are going to be more serious than those envisaged in the current Penal Code, and of course much more serious than in the reform we are proposing. I challenge you, if you maintain the 315 regulation, to then explain to those who will be convicted by that article of the Criminal Code that their conduct has really been decriminalized, because it will be false, it will not have been decriminalized, it will continue to be a conduct found in the Criminal Code only that will be punished with a more serious penalty. And everything else is blah, blah, blah. You can do demagogy, you can fill up newsletters, you can wear T-shirts, but in the end you will put violent pickets in jail with more severe penalties and also transfer the message to society that everything is worth it. [[applause]] The privileged type of article 315.3, the type that reduces the penalty by 315.3, if it disappears, if it entails the worsening of the penalties for which they are currently being prosecuted or have been prosecuted under that criminal type, if such an increase in penalties occurs the responsibility will be only yours, we have tried. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well.-Applause.-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valmaña. Mrs. Vidal. [[Rumors and Protests]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u56	I have the feeling, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u57	Wait a minute, Mrs. Vidal, please. [[Pause]] Now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u58	I have the feeling, Your Honor, that you have not heard anything I have said; nothing at all. Look, when you talk about violence, I answer you to the reality that you live in strikes, and the reality that you live in strikes is that there are hundreds of companies that threaten a right that is constitutional. I would understand that a governing party such as the People's Party would logically defend constitutional and fundamental rights such as this. Where's the D.A.? Where is the People's Party when there are still such threats in companies? I come from the field of trade unionism - it is not a surprise, I think, for many of those present - I have dedicated myself to setting up general strikes and I know very well how the organization of them works. Do you know how many calls we have when there's a general strike of workers telling us they've locked them in their company and they won't let them out? Do you know how many calls we received the previous weeks to ask us, please, to explain how this exercise of the right to strike works? That's coercion, it's violence, and there the People's Party basically silva and looks elsewhere, Your Honor. I understand that the People's Party does not like the right to strike and they also pursue it where they can. [[Mrs. Valmaña Ochaíta: We don't]] You're looking for the criminalization of pickets and it's a fact. No one denies the crime of coercion, it is already contained in the Penal Code, what we question, I insist, is the typical specific for pickets, Your Honor. Look, the proposal you make does not solve anything at all, it keeps the penal type aggravated or coercion for companies in this case, and so that the prosecution can continue criminalizing pickets. In fact, the People's Party's own amendment is perfect to illustrate the intention in this case of Article 315(3), which is that penalties do not matter, you demonstrate this in your proposal. [[Mrs. Valmaña Ochaíta: No]] No matter the penalties, what matters is that there is a criminal mechanism for criminalizing pickets, that's all you care about. Look, even if it bothers them, basically the Constitution establishes the right to strike in its article 28.2, and also as a fundamental right, specifically protected in article 53. And it is because without it, ladies and gentlemen, trade union freedom would be left in drunk water, it would be absolutely nothing. [[Mrs. Valmaña Ochaíta: Absolutely agree]] Do not hide from the right to work, because you do not care about work at all. If they cared, they would not have approved, for example, a labour reform that facilitates exit from the labour market. [[Applauds]] The People's Party deeply resents the right to strike, and it is also that they hide it terribly badly. You would prefer the strikes to be on Sunday, finally, to be silent, and no one would know at all; and they pursue them and criminalize them by land, sea, and air. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, not only in Spain, we are fortunate that you have also participated in international bodies. They also do so, for example, at the ILO level. It became clear - when the discussion was taking place in this case under Article 86 - that you, the People's Party, stood aside at that time from those who were defending that the right to strike should come out of ILO Convention 86, that is the People's Party too. They do not have enough to climb with the rights of the Spanish and Spanish who have to go also to the international level to see if this way the rest of the world knows its stamp. [[Mrs. Valmaña Ochaita makes negative gestures.-Applause]] In addition, some of us here have memories, I remember very well how Minister Catalá came out very happy - and also tremendously reckless - when a very restrictive interpretation was made related to the use of strike with subcontracts. A minister of justice basically giving rise to a serious questioning of a fundamental right; it is a milestone of the People's Party if I may. And it's normal for you to be disturbed by strikes, because strikes are useful and leave you in a very bad place. For example, the Air Liquide carriers in Barcelona recently managed, thanks to the strike, to keep the entire staff on the same condition, despite in this case the threats, that there was neither the prosecutor's office nor the People's Party. Either the taxi drivers without going any further, or the Amazon partners, who are still there. Now in addition to Amazon's comrades, thanks to the struggle - which I have no doubt that they will win - they are beginning to choose legal representation. And I take advantage, since we are close to the centenary of 'Canada', and that our group has also taken some initiative in this regard, promoted by my colleague Josep Vendrell, as will be his centenary, thanks to this we enjoy the eight-hour day. [[Mrs. Valmaña Ochaíta shows a copy of the Penal Code: This is what we are talking about.]] Strikes are an element of the present, which is not of the past, an element of the future that allows us to move forward as a society, and I told them that it is a determining factor in terms of a country's democratic quality. And without going any further, by the way, the workers of the Generalitat of Catalonia have just called a strike to recover the extra payments they took during the cuts, and I have no doubt that they will get results in this case. [[Mrs. Valmaña Ochaíta: That's very good, but we're talking about something else.]] Take off a little that has been hooked on you from the twenty-eighth year, and assume that Article 315 must be repealed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u59	Mr Matute García de Jalón, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let no one offend me if I say that in this house I have heard things that I personally find delirious on many occasions; I suppose many of those I say may look like others, but what I have heard today will be difficult for me to forget. Let him say that the Criminal Code is the most effective instrument in the defence of workers, when that coercive instrument has served to imprison dozens of workers is little less than delusional, being mild. In short, you are talking in this debate about the coercion of the State and the capacities of the right to dismantle what was called the welfare state. This is just another step; criminalizing pickets, as you have already pointed out, is a necessary step for you to sow fear among the workers. It is but a consequence of the democratic involution in which you have been working and working for decades. This has been said in labour reforms, in the insulting minimum services they impose, and also in the detention of pickets and in the criminalization of pickets. But it would be unfair to say that you do not care about wage earners and wage earners, because there are times when they do; when you have to defend those who precisely have to exercise the co-active power of the State, the police, you have no problem in supporting them and voting for wage equality for all. I expect you in this House when the teachers and the health workers come to see if they have the same desire for equal pay and equality for all. In any case, we are not going to support the whole amendment on a very basic issue. For a long time I was asked, perhaps as a surprise, what the Basque pensioners and pensioners had to demonstrate so persistently on the streets of Bilbao, when their social and working conditions and pensions were probably superior to those of the rest of the state, and I was telling them a very clear thing: they have class consciousness, because all those people who today manifest themselves by their pensions are people who decades ago, on the left bank of the Nervion and elsewhere in Vizcaya, in Altos Hornos and in Euskalduna, fought and fought for the defense of their jobs in a way that would make you put them in jail today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Compromís is not going to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the People's Party for two reasons; the first, because it breaks with the logic of the scale of values that must be protected by the crime of coercion; and the second, because with this proposal you show that you do not understand what it means that the right to strike has the fundamental right in our Constitution. With regard to the first, it follows that, unlike the basic types of the crime of coercion, article 315.3 does not distinguish between serious and mild coercion, does not in any way modulate and simply throws the bundle against the worker, because his conduct is always going to be penalized in a serious way. For example, coercion that may have occurred in a strike context is punished more strongly than, for example, coercion by a man against his ex-wife or ex-partner - article 172.2, which begins with a lower penalty - or is also punished more severely than coercion by intimidation or violence against a person to force him to marry - article 172 bis -. Therefore, with this investment in the hierarchy of values that are present in our society, what is being paid is the broth of cultivation that leads us to judgments like those of La Manada. Secondly, it is not understood what the right to strike is to be fundamental. The law gives priority to those who act in the exercise of fundamental rights, and that is why in our Criminal Code there are numerous mitigating factors and even exemptions when a person has committed a reprehensible act, but in the exercise of a fundamental right, for example, the right to life or the right to physical or moral integrity. It should be noted that this type of behaviour should even be considered to be attenuated, either in article 21 of the Criminal Code or in the special section, articles 172 et seq. In any case, what we see is that with this amendment brought to us by the People's Party they want to continue to maintain a class crime, a crime that seriously penalizes the working class for the mere fact of being so and claiming their rights, so we are not going to support it, because in Compromís we do not want a Classistic Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to reject this amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party. We are convinced that no social and political conflict ever has an answer in the Penal Code, nor in the field of the exercise of the right to strike, nor of course in relation to what we are living in Catalonia. The philosophy of such a specific presence in the Criminal Code in relation to the strike is based on the conviction that, in the face of a social conflict in the exercise of that right, the answer may be in the Criminal Code. This is a wrong approach and that will lead us to support the initiative put forward by Unidos Podemos at the time, and to maintain the commitment we made to trade union organizations three years ago to go in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, another thing is that the Spanish democratic system has been pending since the adoption of the Constitution the regulation by organic law of the right to strike. Today the regulation of this matter is the result of a decree prior to the elaboration of the Constitution itself, and on every occasion when there is a strike and there is some kind of conflict in the exercise of that constitutional right we demand its development. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take advantage of my presence in the rostrum to claim from the social partners today, which is a moment of peace in global economic and social terms, to agree on the regulation of the right to strike, and to have the government transfer the corresponding organic bill to us to develop it, because perhaps some of the problems that exist could be solved by the intelligent, modern and consensual development of the right to strike. In any case, during the parliamentary process of this initiative, we will have an opportunity to assess whether some of the remarks made by the spokesman for the People's Group improve the text, but today we are going to reject this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u66	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group is proposing an amendment to the entire proposal to amend the Criminal Code which, on the proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, was taken into consideration by this House and referred to the criminal treatment that the right to strike exempts the current article 315 of the Criminal Code; a proposal that is pending before the Justice Commission, and during which the said article 315 will be addressed, to which has always accompanied the controversy since the same adoption of the Constitution: the recognition of the right to strike, in its article 28.2 and in particular with regard to the action of the pickets of extension of the strike. This controversy was particularly highlighted by the adoption in 1995 of the so-called Penal Code of Democracy, when it introduced the current article 315, subsequently amended in 2015 during the X Legislature, and in which the punishability of those responsible for pickets was reduced, but certainly without substantially affecting the typical conduct. The amendment to the whole of the People's Parliamentary Group now proposes to reduce the minimum penalties for the sanctioning fork by maintaining the higher penalties for so-called extended strike pickets. However, we do not believe that this is the only and most relevant issue to be discussed at this time with regard to Article 315. Focusing on it, as proposed in the amendment as a whole, would avoid the substantive debate that has been raised from time to time, namely whether a penal type of picketing would be imposed when they coercely impede the right not to strike or continue a strike by workers. For this reason, we will not support the amendment as a whole, because in exchange for a lower reduction in the minimum penalties of the sanctioning fork, the substantive debate on the advisability of the very existence of the criminal rate is prevented. The Basque Parliamentary Group believes that this substantive debate must take place, without prejudging the final outcome at this time, after having listened to the various legal operators and affected parties after more than twenty-three years of implementation of the so-called Criminal Code of Democracy. As already expressed in the debate on the consideration of the proposal that is now proposed to amend the whole, the term coercion, which defines the typical nature of prohibited conduct, may not be sufficiently modulated in the context of a strike with respect to its strict meaning, and this results in the association, very common in the judicial sphere, of the action of pickets to violence of criminal content, forgetting that a strike involves the confrontation of forces in conflict, and that it is a pressure measure that has in itself an element of coercion at least in the social sense, since it aims to extend a strike, both in the face of the negative inertia of many workers in its exercise, by the sacrifices that involve - basically the suspension of the employment contract and the wage discount - as well as against other mechanisms of corporate pressure in the opposite direction, that even when they are anti-unional and contrary to the constitutional right to strike are usually considered by the courts without criminal relevance, such as the hiring of workers to replace those who are on strike or the same acts of return to strike through sanctions. The opposite is true of pickets, since, with regard to their irregular behaviour, the criminal route is used preferably, which is very widespread for workers, while the usual way of working is for employers. This is a matter of substance with regard to Article 315, whose debate should not be circumvented, a situation which would happen if we adopted today the amendment to the whole of the People's Parliamentary Group, and we would also avoid, in relation to Article 315, the advisable modulation with regard to the exercise of the fundamental right to cross the frontiers of the protection of the right, of the strike and of the extension pickets, and the sanctioning reaction to that extra-limitation, which should not entail a disproportionate sacrifice of the offender or a deterrent or discouraging effect of the exercise of a fundamental right, such as that of strike, and its concretion in the extension pickets; let alone those other behaviours of pickets which, while appreciating excesses in the exercise of the right, do not manage to disfigure or completely distort it, or those conducts which should cause us to reflect whether the gravity of the penal sanction implies or not a disproportionate and unnecessary sacrifice of rights at stake, and which could also have a dissuasive effect for the future. In short, the fundamental issue - and I am finishing, Mr President - that we must face is whether the current penal regulation on pickets sometimes contains a problem of devalue of conduct and of disproportion over the protected legal good, as the Attorney General Torres-Dulce pointed out in his day. And these issues are not addressed in the amendment as a whole, which contracts a minimum reduction in minimum sanctions, and, as we said, if we approved it, we would not be able to deal with those substantive issues that have been challenging us since article 315 of the Criminal Code. These are the reasons why the amendment as a whole will not receive the support of the Basque Parliamentary Group, too, I must say, without rejecting in advance its material proposal without prior consideration of the issue in all its aspects. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u68	Good morning, good morning to everyone. Left Republican already in the previous legislature demanded, with the maximum force that allows it to have seven deputies, the repeal of Article 315, specifically in its point number 3. In fact, it was the first proposal we made: we called for the repeal of this article of the Penal Code designed to combat organized workers. We did so long before the events of October 2017 in Catalonia and its brutal repression took place. It is not a subject of opportunism, it is a subject of democratic values, it is a subject of the authoritarian drift of this rotten state. It's been years since any democrat's seen it, it's not new from now on. Society in general - Catalan society but society in general -, which is not indoctrinated - a word that they like to apply to others without looking in the mirror - by its mass media, it is sick of its Supreme Court, it is sick of its Constitutional Court, it is sick of its National Court and it is sick of abusive interpretations of the law, of the violation of social, civil and political rights one day and another too. She is sick and tired of this excrement of justice that does cause social alarm. But let us return to one of those alarming points, the trade union repression, against which from the beginning - and as always - we made ourselves available to all trade union organizations once we learned of the existence of more than 300 accused, thanks to the International Commission in defense of the 300 and in particular to the Committee for the Alliance of Workers and Peoples. Therefore, it will not be a surprise that today we give support to the repeal of article 315 of the Criminal Code, specifically in its point 3, on the proposal of Unite Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, and we will do so because the aforementioned article recalls the Francoism and neo-offranchism so present still in this Chamber, because it is an article that, refined and in the hands of the prosecution, became the last general strike - that of 2012 - in an article against freedom, against the right to strike and that was used to intimidate and bind the feet and hands of the workers organized in defense of their claims. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u69	Wait a minute, Mr. Salvador. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u70	As I told you, it was used to scare the workers organized in defense of their claims. Article 315, as the article regulating rebellion and sedition, has been used by an increasingly delegitimized judiciary in Catalonia and the rest of the state to prosecute more than 300 trade unionists, workers and workers, to prosecute the best people in this society, those who struggle to improve it, to teach them a lesson, to create panic and fear to those who organize themselves to defend the rights conquered over the years. Faced with the submission to financial capital by the governments of Zapatero and Rajoy, this judicial interpretation justifies - or refined from 315, as Mr Fernández Díaz would say - what was never used in the last forty years. Why wasn't this article used for forty years? Instead, it was used again in 2012 to coerce workers, as I said, and to strike a hard blow. It would be impossible to defend - and this goes for the Spanish lefts and the lefts of the other peoples of Spain - the freedom of our political prisoners without defending the freedom of other political defendants and other political prisoners such as trade unionists, because they are also political prisoners. [[Applauds]] It would be impossible to defend this freedom without defending the dismissal and annulment of all the files opened in the heat of 315.3 of the Criminal Code and the Law gag - which they have also forgotten to repeal - with the sole aim of paralysing and straining the workers' movement and threatening it with sentences ranging from two to eight years in prison. Just as they now intend to impose on Junqueras, Forcadell, Bassa, Turull, Romeva, etc., a lot of years simply for exercising civil rights and freedoms. The only objective was to paralyse and threaten not only the Catalan dissidence but also all the workers of this State, specifically the part of Catalonia that feels like a nation and wants to exercise its right to self-determination, free and democratic. That's what your judiciary's for. As I said, the coercion on the strike of 2012 did not come from the hands of the news pickets, the strikers, but from a part of the employer favored by the labor reform, in particular with the ease of dismissal due, among other things, to precarious contracts and the position of power that gives the possibility to fire and threaten those who play the daily bread. That's the great coercion. [[Applauds]] For this employer there are no articles, for this employer there was no one charged by any article of the Criminal Code. This is your society, this is that society. We not only ask for the repeal of Article 315.3, but - and now it goes for you, the PSOE - that we encourage the PSOE to act as PSOE and to act as a party not only Spanish, which does it very well, but also as a socialist workers' party and to be in favour of the trade unionists, for real. We ask the PSOE to be courageous and to do everything and more so that all the cases opened in relation to article 315.3 are overturned and to repeal the law at once, and all the cases against the other political prisoners of the State, including the Catalans, obviously. They are these kinds of facts, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the only ones that can be interpreted as really wanting to honour the historical acronyms they bear. We want facts that show that they are really an alternative to the orange and blue neo-ranchism of Casado and Rivera; that we really did well by expelling them from the government. Let the Republicans be blackmailed and let the freedoms of the people who claim to rule be ignored; let them end the bad customer practices of justice; let them end their politicization recognized by all the good people of this very House; let them not be hypocrites and take, as they say in a good Spanish, the bull by the horns, if they dare, that at the moment it is not so. It should be remembered that in Catalonia alone there are more than 1200 people accused and investigated, more than 700 are elected officials who fulfill their electoral programs - not like others - in legal parties and who win elections. Mr. Jordi Cuixart, for example, incarcerated without trial is accused, by an evil called judge for having said in a rally 'They will not pass'. [[Give it up.-Show your T-shirt that reads 'You won't pass']] Well, yes, one day you, Socialist Party gentlemen, were also behind a 'No way' banner. We ask you to return to the 'No pass' banner and not allow people to be condemned for saying in a demonstration, in a 'No pass' rally. [[Applauds]] This is what we ask you to return to the 'No way' and then we may think that there is an alternative Spain for the different peoples and for the workers of this state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr Cano Leal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u72	Thank you, President. I, in connection with the issue of justice, want to start with a spearhead in favour of judges and magistrates who daily perform their judicial role, including making decisions such as those of pretrial detention. I will never accept that there are differences between remand prisoners; there are no better people than others, there are people subject to judicial proceedings with their rights and with a principle of presumption of innocence. I already enter into the debate that brings us here and now the People's Party and the first thing we have to say is that we are talking about criminal types related to the exercise of the right to strike and its subsequent channelling. It is a PL that presented the match of Podemos in September 2016. The People's Party is now presenting an amendment to the whole. In short, it is a parliamentary confrontation between the two parties. Ladies and gentlemen, what a difference, what a difference from the scenario we have experienced this week where there has been love and harmony between the Socialist Party, the People's Party and the United We can divide ourselves, as if they were chrome, the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] And they have done so even before the deputies were appointed, which has led to some association of judges and magistrates thinking of challenging it before the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens are clear that we do not want to participate in the management of the threads of justice, because we understand that there can be no threads in justice. What is the object of the amendment? Coming down to the debate in particular, it is a question of the desirability of deleting or maintaining the third paragraph of article 315 of the Criminal Code, which refers to a specific type of coercion, labour coercion, i.e. those who are subjected to violence, intimidation before starting or maintaining a strike. Is this crime currently covered by the Criminal Code? Yeah. Is it new? Not - it has already been said here - comes from the Penal Code of 1928 of the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera and was re-established in our Penal Code with two separate types in the law of 1976. From there, surprisingly, with the 1995 Penal Code of the Socialist Party, article 315, paragraph 3, was introduced when, in reality, the situation of society did not seem advisable to maintain it. In the reform that the People's Party made in 2015 it also maintained - that is why we have it today in our legal system - but softening the penalties, as the representative of the People's Group has said. Why is the PL presented and why is the amendment presented? We want to think - to think well - that the PL is formulated in accordance with new, more modern and up-to-date legal criteria which lead to the deletion of this paragraph 3. There are always misunderstandings that relate one thing to the other, in this case with our fellow banker Mr. Cañamero. [[Show a picture]] I ask the United Group We can make a superhuman effort to demystify that idea and ensure that its PL is more related to legal criteria than to the protection of persons related to its group. As to the reason for the amendment by the People's Party, the representative of the Group of the European People's Party explained to us a little, although I have not understood it, but from a legal point of view, it makes no sense, among other things, because there is a general crime of coercion, in Article 172, which punishes these actions. Moreover, if we enter any legal basis for judgements, we will see that many of the cases have ended in acquittals for difficulty in the evidence; but above all there is the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court says that the right to strike implies requiring others to join it and to participate, within the legal framework, in joint actions aimed at that end. In other words, this right under article 28 of the Constitution integrates all the procedures necessary to ensure its effectiveness. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we can and the People's Party are fighting over a criminal type that is now too much. Of course Citizens will not participate in this game because we consider it does not conform to the current reality of our society. What is Citizen's position on this amendment? Already in the discussion we had the opportunity to say that we were in favour of the deletion of Article 315(3), not so with the transitional and end that included that Podemos initiative and that they seriously jeopardized the principle of legal certainty because they attacked already tried and sentenced situations. We are so in agreement to delete Article 315(3) that we include it in the investiture negotiation agreement in Legislature XI, that short term legislature we had. We included it in a parliamentary agreement, which curiously the party of Podemos rejected; that is, with a difference of months, the United Group Podemos went from rejecting the 315 repeal to asking for its application, another example of consistency. In any case, I welcome you to common sense. Consequently, Citizens are not going to support this amendment. If we make partial amendments, especially aimed at combating this transitional and end because they seriously jeopardize legal certainty, all this, of course, as long as the left side of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that of the People's Parliamentary Group, the right side, and the United Group We can not reach another agreement such as that of the distribution of chromosomes that they have had this week with the General Council of the Judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Cano. Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u74	Good morning. I assure you that my group will answer without demagoguery, from the reflection, from the knowledge of labour relations and from the knowledge of the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and of the doctrine accredited in this matter. What you bring us here is something very simple: you want to maintain article 315.3 of the Criminal Code and for this you give in your amendment a series of somewhat incorrect legal arguments and you should know that they are contrary to the rulings of the Constitutional Court in this matter. They say first of all in their argument that it has been considered appropriate legislatively to maintain this precept and I believe that is not to tell the whole truth. It is true - it has already been said here - that this precept comes from 1976, it is true that it was settled in 1995 and 2015, but it is also true that since the Spanish Constitution the Constitutional Court made an extensive interpretation of the right to strike and one of the precepts that was called unconstitutionality in its judgments was this. From that moment on it ceased to apply, absolute inapplicability until, from good to good, with the People's Party government changed this trend. That is, this precept was termed unconstitutional by doctrine and did not apply. [[Rumors]] As far as I know, there's no sentence before your government. What happened? That came the People's Party and there was as a sort of concerted action: the Ministry of the Interior, with the Law of the Interior, which also limited the right to the demonstration of trade unions; the police arrived with the attestations where, in addition to reporting, it was prejudged since there could be some illicit; and the Ministry of Finance came qualifying these actions. What happened? The fact is that this article has been changed from not being used to being misused. Against who? Against unionists who participated in these pickets of extension of the strike: Airbus, Arcelor, up to three hundred people, as has been said here and I will not repeat myself. What does the People's Party do with its amendment? It does not know the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. The doctrine of the Constitutional Court has said that pickets are part of the essential content of the right to strike and I bring it in writing to see to what extent this right extends. The Constitutional Court says that workers can give publicity, screening outside the strike, remove the obstacles they consider to extend their effects, require the accession of more workers and deter other workers who have chosen to continue with the work. All these activities, which is what makes a picket extension, are part of the essential content of the strike. Moreover, the Constitutional Court says that this is essential to balance the position of workers in a conflict where, by virtue of their position in the employment contract, they are weak. And my group adds: And it is even more necessary at a time when all the mechanisms that workers have to claim their rights, such as collective bargaining and the procedures for consultation and participation in the actions of workers of great importance, have been curtailed. And one of those current cases we have on Alcoa's assumption. You also consider - it has been said here - somewhat incomprehensible that double standard of measuring, that is, criminal law for the activities of workers and trade unions who carry out these actions on strike and nothing of the Penal Code for actions of employers - which we know exist - that violate the right to strike. I would like to give the example of squeezing; I am sure that we all know cases of companies that have replaced strikers and simply the state of prevalence that the employer has with the possibility of extinguishing the employment contract. This double standard has said the doctrine that is incomprehensible in a social and democratic state of law, because, on the other hand - and it has also been said here - we do have the case of judgments of the Social Court or Labour Inspectorate records that consider that there are business attitudes that may be administrative non-compliance but that have never been qualified by the judges and courts under Article 315(1) and (2) as offences. Thus, it is intended to end this double standard of measuring with the suppression of 315. What's going on? That in 315.3 is where the right to strike is not guaranteed, where the right to strike is being undermined as an instrument for resolving workers' conflicts, because of course you here have taken the greatest, violence, but there are many times that pickets do not act violently and according to 315.3 could also be susceptible to crime. That is the case, as has been seen, with those three hundred people who have gone through criminal jurisdiction with better or worse results. You also point out in the amendment that the criminal protection of the strike requires Article 315.3, and that is uncertain. You know very well that in 315 paragraphs 1 and 2 conducts which, with coercion, fear or even violence, prevent or limit the exercise of a strike are defined. Within this article is contained what is the positive right to strike, to go on strike, to make the strike positive, and also protects the negative right not to go on strike. For what I have wanted to understand here, by repealing 315.3 all the judges and courts are going to go mad against the pickets, which are going to see their sanctions aggravated, and this obviously I do not believe that it can be considered or interpreted like this, nor can that speech be sold here. Alongside these three legal arguments I have made, I would like to refer to two very serious issues which make it even more necessary to delete Article 315. On the one hand, the loss of workers' rights, the impoverishment of workers and, above all, very important, the dismantling of the ordinary channels of negotiation. A worker goes on strike as a last resort, a worker goes on strike as a last resort because, among other things, he loses his salary. If the worker is not able to negotiate his conditions with the collective agreement or with the channels of consultation and representation and in addition to curtailing his right to strike, there you will not have us. Moreover, this debate cannot be separated from this issue of the loss of workers' rights to claim their rights since negotiation. On the other hand, this is in line with their premeditated, orderly and systematic deployment of going against the dissent of workers, of the rights of demonstration, as demonstrated by the resumé of 315.3 and by the Law on Citizen Security. For my group to repeal 315.3 is a necessity, in fact we too had tabled it as a proposal for a law. Even the Constitutional Court says - as you seem to know so much - that we should take a step further because we should even interpret the coercions from a more strict point of view taking into account when referring to the action of pickets. For this reason, by reflecting a great deal, from a criminalistic doctrine, from the knowledge of labour relations, we have to oppose this amendment head-on to the totality that you propose and that I believe you have not legally designed here as you should have done. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Frutos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u76	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on the fixing of the amount of the inter-branch minimum wage. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was beginning to take this bill into consideration, making clear the position of the People's Party. I was saying at that time, and I repeat today, that we are in favour of increasing the interprofessional minimum wage, as well as of putting all the necessary means in place to increase all the wages, the low, the medium and the high, in our country. The People's Party is in favour of wage growth based on a growing economy; wage growth based on improving the competitiveness of our businesses; wage growth based on productivity gains; wage growth that can be sustained over time and, above all, wage growth that does not involve the destruction of employment. In short, we in the People's Party are committed to creating jobs and improving the quality of that job. Proof of this commitment are the facts, are the data, like it or not like it, the certain data that you, now, in your moment of post-truth, try to deny. But the data is silly and cannot hide that during the People's Party government the number of unemployed was reduced: compared to the 2.5 million people that the PSOE sent to the unemployment lists, the People's Party drew 1.2 million of them. They cannot hide the fact that intense employment was created during our party's government: in the face of the destruction of 2.3 million in PSOE jobs, the creation of 1.7 million jobs, opportunities created for 1.7 million Spaniards by the People's Party. Made in the generation of employment and made in the improvement of the quality of such employment, increasing the percentage of workers with indefinite contracts, three out of four workers enjoy an indefinite contract, and with wage improvements, including successive increases in the interprofessional minimum wage, already materialized by the Government of the People's Party. I will refer to these increases in the minimum wage, because the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage is also a reality in the People's Party government. Since 2016, with Minister Báñez at the head of the Ministry of Employment, the minimum wage has grown from €655.2 in 2016 to €735.9 in 2018. We are talking about an increase of 1% in 2016, 8% in 2017 and 4% in 2018. We are talking about a real rise that has already moved into the pocket of thousands of workers. But we must go further and not forget that, when we talk about the evolution of the interprofessional minimum wage in our country, we must consider these increases and, moreover, take into account the increases already planned and which are the result of the work of the People's Party jointly with the social partners, additional increases of 5% for 2019 and 10% for 2020, which would allow the salary to reach 850 euros by 2020. But these increases are not spontaneous, they are not random, they are not the result of improvisation, but they are the result, as I said before, of work, but above all they are the result of negotiation and agreement, because in the People's Party we firmly believe in negotiation and agreement; negotiation and agreement with those who are the legitimate representatives of workers and employers, negotiation and agreement with those who know what balances must be maintained so that employment continues to grow at the same time as wages do. That is why today we are defending this amendment in its entirety with an alternative text. Because in the face of a proposed minimum wage increase negotiated, agreed and signed with those who legally represent both sides of the labour market, we are faced with an initiative which, Mr de Podemos, you have agreed with yourselves, an initiative to which Mr Sánchez has now joined. Faced with a signed proposal that has been thought and worked in depth, with a detailed analysis of the effects for workers and entrepreneurs, especially for small entrepreneurs and self-employed people, we find a proposal that is alien to social consultation, and with such a level of improvisation that when the ink of the signatures of Dr Sánchez and his economic vice-president, Mr Iglesias, had not yet dried up, they had already had to correct it because they suddenly realized that their initiative, as it was proposed, had negative consequences for millions of Spaniards, especially for the self-employed. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, in the face of their improvisation, our coherence; in the face of their contempt for trade unions and business associations, the People's Party which defends the social concertation and the role played by the social partners in it. Proof of our consistency is the alternative text that we have presented and that is no more than what we have worked, negotiated, agreed and signed, reaffirming ourselves on each and every one of its points, which are our points, but also UGT, Workers' Commissions, CEOs and Cepyme, and that is why they were signed by them last December, less than a year ago. The increases of 4% for 2018, which is already a reality; of 5% for 2019 and 10% for 2020, are wage increases that are possible with the reforms carried out by the People's Party and that have allowed four years followed by economic growth, because if wealth is not created, wealth cannot be distributed. They are wage increases whose priority, you must not forget, is economic growth and job creation because growth has to reach the workers with the rise in wages, but also, ladies and gentlemen, it has to reach those who have not yet received a job. They are wage increases compatible with improved competitiveness, wage increases, in short, which are supported by productivity gains, and this is the indicator that the economy's capacity to expand continues to be in force. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the words of the People's Party, but also, I repeat, are the words of UGT, of the Workers' Committees, of CEOE and of Cepyme, because they are the principles on which the agreement signed less than a year ago is based. These principles are based on the agreed and incorporated increases in the inter-professional minimum wage, which are well above 2.5% of GDP growth, even quadrupling it by 2020; increases which are fixed on job creation because we have an obligation to improve the quality of employment of those who already have it with wage increases, but we also have an obligation to continue working for those who are still unemployed and who are entitled to employment. That is why the agreed minimum wage was raised, provided that at least 450 000 jobs were created. By the way, the two conditions - GDP growth and job creation - were met when governing the People's Party. I repeat, it is a working, negotiated and agreed model that has taken into account the effects of what has been signed against its model, a model, Mr de Podemos and Mr PSOE, which all independent bodies consider will have negative effects on employment. There has not been a single independent body of recognized prestige that has given them reason. Thus, the AIReF estimates that as a result of this increase 40 000 fewer jobs will be created in 2019, the European Commission estimates that between 70 000 and 80 000 fewer jobs will be created in 2019 and 2020, and the Bank of Spain estimates that the final impact of its improvisations will be the loss of 150 000 jobs. Its model is a model of inequality, since, according to the report of the Banco de España model, such an increase will negatively affect the groups of young people and less skilled workers, precisely those with higher unemployment rates. Its model negatively affects the employment of persons with disabilities; if not, speak with the special employment centres. Its model poses difficulties in all those labour-intensive companies which contract with public administrations - I am talking about cleaning sectors, gardening sectors - and which will also have significant increases in their labour costs that they will not be able to move. In addition, their model is particularly buoyant with self-employed because this rise, although it seems that they have already been able to correct the effect it has on the increases in self-employed contributions, have not given the self-employed answers to the increases in labour costs, to the more than 1 million self-employed who have their employees, who can be expected to increase the cost per worker by almost 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by asking you to change your position, asking you to change your model, to change your model in the process and in the content. In the process, and I therefore ask you to return to the negotiation, to return to the conciliation, and not to ignore what has been signed with the social partners because they represent the protagonists of this measure. And change your proposal also in content because wage increases cannot arise in isolation because they have an effect on employment, have an effect on opportunities for our young people, for the long-term unemployed and for the low-skilled, for the self-employed, for the disabled. Does anyone think that the 1.5 million increases in social contributions linked to the increase in the minimum wage have no effect? Ladies and gentlemen, think back because all Spaniards deserve to participate in economic growth; all Spaniards deserve an opportunity. The 18,915,668 employed workers deserve better wages, but never at the expense of the 3,252,130 Spaniards who do not find a job. And that is the commitment of the People's Party, to work so hard to improve the quality of employment for the 19 million Spaniards who have a job, as to seek opportunities for the more than 3 million unemployed who have not yet found a job. And these two commitments are what this amendment will be voted on in the House today, because what is necessary is that we vote in favour of the occupied and the unemployed, and we never put one another ahead of the other, which is what you, Mr de Podemos and Mr de PSOE, want with this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. López Ares. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I give the floor to the representative of that group, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u79	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Your Honor. - That's where he goes, and I hope he's left listening to me. First, even if it seems like a lie, I want to thank you because - you know, I've been tired of repeating it - we've been presenting this initiative for over two years, and it's not the first time I've said it. It is four pages: one, two, three, four pages has the initiative, and it takes two years to make amendments! [[showing them to the House]] I think there are only two possibilities: either they are very gullible - as is said in my land - and they don't like to work at all, or I suspect they have no intention of raising wages to those who pay less in this country. And I thank you because after fifteen initiatives on Venezuela and so many others on the flag - the flag comes up, the flag goes down - initiatives on the drama of Catalan boys and girls speaking Catalan in Catalonia..., after all these matters of utmost importance, finally the People's Parliamentary Group brings for the first time an initiative on the interprofessional minimum wage. And it is, of course, to lower it, to lower what we have signed in the budget agreement with the Government. I have to admit that they are consistent; their parliamentary activity is directly related to their thinking: they have never, never wanted to end wage inequality and remain firm in that position. I believe that it is necessary to admit to Caesar what is Caesar's. Still, I can't resist doing a little X-ray of the country behind the flags. According to the latest data available from the National Institute of Statistics, in order not to say that it is I who take them off my sleeve, 45% of the working people charge between zero and two minimum wages. This is to be exact; and to calculate the magnitude of what we are talking about: 8,253,450 people -8 million -. And another fundamental fact that I do not want to leave behind is that 55% of women who have jobs in this country earn between zero and two minimum wages, more than half. Contrary to what you say, a multitude of voices from civil society, including an entire Nobel Prize in Economics, highlight the advantages of rising lower wages. It is a measure that increases the purchasing power of the population, therefore increases domestic consumption and impacts positively on the accounts of self-employed and SMEs, because the number of customers with purchasing capacity rises. This in turn leads to employment generation and reduction of inequalities. In addition, we are not only based on studies and projections of experts, but also reality and experience gives us reason. One of the most powerful economies in the world - I don't know if you know the example, but I am telling you here - South Korea, which has a very similar GDP to Spanish, was one of the countries in the world that last year further reduced inequality, and basically based it on three measures: on the one hand, increasing the tax burden on large companies, on the other hand, increasing social protection and, the third and final, increasing the interprofessional minimum wage by 16% in that country - by 16%. I am going to the other end of the world: in Seattle, in the United States, the rise in the minimum wage was a hundred percent, and we have no record - I don't know if you have it, we don't - that there has been any kind of economic apocalypse in Seattle or that thousands of jobs have been destroyed; what seems to have been achieved was that the working people lived a little better. One of the biggest lies that is told about the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage to 900 euros is that it will harm the most disadvantaged sectors; this is deeply, but deeply cynically and bluntly false. Why do I say false? Because the rise would benefit - it will benefit, because I hope it will come forward - the one who is now paying the minimum wage or below it; this may seem obvious, but given the interventions for many it is not so obvious. I'm going to tell you very quickly who these people are who are the recipients of the climb and why we say it's openly false what you say. 2 out of 3 persons who receive the minimum inter-professional wage or less are women; 3 out of 4 persons who receive the minimum inter-professional wage or less are between 20 and 49 years old; 1 out of 2 persons who receive the minimum inter-professional wage or less is less than one year old in their enterprise; 3 out of 4 persons who receive the minimum inter-professional wage or less have one part-time working day, in most cases not desired, of course. In short, the main beneficiaries of the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage are young people, women and workers, and precarious workers in general. [[Applauds]] That without going in to talk about the territories. In the Canary Islands and in Extremadura we would receive this rise with open arms; it would be as acute as May, again for sadly obvious reasons, but I repeat them because we are the territories of the State with the lowest wages. And cynical, why do I say cynical? Because it is, it's cynical and petty, but to infinity. The report that the rise is unsustainable and detrimental to the economy is mainly spreading by certain political parties, banks and European institutions. Here I come to present to you publicly the Champion League of cynicism, hypocrisy and little shame. In fourth position of this Champion League we have politicians from this House, mainly from the People's Party and Citizens' Party, with Mr. Married and Mr. Rivera at the head. They say raising the interprofessional minimum wage to 900 euros is a nightly measure. Do you know how much a congressman charges? Those who don't donate part of the salary as we make it clear, you know how much? Almost 5000 euros. On the bronze medal podium, in third position, we have the Banco de España, which in the mouth of its governor has also dedicated itself to putting fear on the negative effects of this climb. Do you know how much this gentleman charges? He earns 14,800 a month, and of course I don't forget to add 1000 euros in diets every time he goes to a meeting, lest he doesn't get to the end of the month. Secondly, as it could not be otherwise, the European Commission is placing so much joy on this country that it could not stay behind and criticise hard that workers can charge 900 euros. And those gentlemen who say these things, how much do they earn? Well, nothing more and nothing less than 32,000 euros a month, and they're criticizing people for winning 900. This is in the public sector, but let's go to the gold medal, to which the Champions League took and which, as it cannot be otherwise, is private banking, which always takes the palm and to which there is no one who takes the gold medal from cynicism. The BBVA Bank seems to be a danger for people to raise 900 euros and says it will cause unemployment and deceleration. Do you know how much the CEO of BBVA charges? He collects 15,800 euros, but not a month, like the austere comrades of the rest of the Champions, not, not a day, 15,800 euros a day. [[Applauds]] For us to get an idea, that gentleman comes home at night, puts on television, sees a movie, puts on his pajamas, goes to bed, gets up, and when he gets up he makes an orange toy, drinks it, looks at the bill and discovers that he has won in a few hours the same thing he is criticizing that he can win a worker or any worker in a whole year. That person sleeping one night earns the same money that would be earned by a worker working for an entire year on the minimum wage that we are proposing. You have to have a cement face! You have to have the face of reinforced concrete to criticize that the workers can earn 900 euros!, which I think is no fortune. [[Applauds]] You have every right in the world to talk continuously about Venezuela, about the flags and that if Catalonia goes up and Catalonia goes down to defend fervently - to which of course you also have all the rights of the world - the interests of the banks, because for that you are paid the election campaigns, when you do not pay them in money B, but well, when you do it legally you are paid through the banks. I repeat, they have all the right in the world, but I only ask one thing: Let us work with those who know that the main concern of people is to have a job, and that is that before a job was synonymous with security and stability; nowadays having a job does not even ensure that you can fill the fridge, that you can reach the end of the month or that you can pay the rent. For us this is our absolute priority and for you too it should be - I say it humbly - because I think that for that they chose us and for that they pay us; moreover, by the way, much more than 900 euros. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Mrs López Ares has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Podemos, here the only ones who lack the truth and lie to each and every one of the Spaniards are you. If you had courage, you would come down here today and tell the Spaniards that you are proposing an increase of 50 euros above what the People's Party has agreed with the unions and with the representatives of the employers, but that you are giving them 10 euros with one hand and you are going to take away 100 euros with this other hand That's what you have to say in this rostrum. [[raising a hand]] [[lifting up the other one]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Spokesman of Podemos, why don't you tell the worker who earns the minimum wage that every time you go to put diesel or diesel in your car you're going to have to spend 10 euros of that 50 that you want to climb a month in order to fill the deposit of your diesel car? Why don't you tell that worker, to whom you want to raise 50 euros a month, that every time you go to make a transfer or take money with your card in a cashier the bank will charge you a commission for your financial transaction tax? Why don't you tell that worker that when you buy through the Internet or when you do some information transaction through the Internet you're going to have to pay something, and that what you're going to be able to save you're going to have to pay it because you have to pay that tax on your technology? Why don't you explain it to him? Why don't you explain to them that, as always, you give them one hand 10 and another hand they take 100? Because you have not yet understood that people consume not with the gross wage, but with the net wage after taxes, and you are the kings in raising taxes. By the way, not precisely to the rich, but to the middle classes and to the workers. [[applause]] They lie. They lie to those who earn 2000, to those who earn 1000 and to those who earn 900 because you do not guarantee it is a job, and if you do not have a job you do not have a salary. They lie to you. You lie to the workers of the province of Cadiz, to the 6000 workers who will not have 900 euros because you are dedicated to playing with corvettes. You lie when your colleagues meet with the workers in Alcoa, Avilés and Coruña, because you don't tell them you're going to lose your job because you have to play with energy. You lie. By the way, your partner lies to the miners because on December 31 the mines will be closed in the country, in this country, all the mines, even the profitable ones: you lie to the miners. You lie, you too are lying to all the workers in the automobile sector, to 200,000 workers, not even the interprofessional minimum wage... [[applause]] Now it turns out that we all have to go by electric car because the Minister of Energy Transition came up with something we don't know what day. You lie. You continue to lie - I repeat - to young people, to women, to the long-term unemployed. They lie to everyone. They lie to the self-employed. Or do you not lie to the self-employed when the owner of a cafeteria, with three workers who charge the interprofessional minimum wage, suddenly increases the cost of each worker by 30%, including contributions? What's that little self-governing guy doing? Or the price of coffee goes up, or what does it do? Part-time work or one of them goes to unemployment. I'll give you examples. I'm not talking about banking, I'm not talking about anything else; I'm talking about people with names and surnames, I'm talking about what they tell us all and I'm sure they tell you, too. They lie, they lie to all the workers in this country, and I will give you a very clear example. [[Showing a chart]] Here's a graph of wages and unemployment. We all want a quality job, we want a job. The line is the evolution of wages since 2006 and the bars are the evolution of unemployment since 2006. Do you know what you're doing? What they always do: send people to unemployment. When it governs the People's Party, they raise wages and people get off the unemployment list because they find a job. That's the difference between you and us. [[Applauds]] Finally, I don't know if what you're doing is because you don't know or because you want to. We are not very clear in the People's Party to what extent you are interested in workers going to the unemployment lists to try to get the mobilization that you believe you can drink for your future elections, but the People's Party is not in that. The People's Party is for each and every Spaniard, stand still or be busy, because everyone has the right to participate in growth by means of income or by the way of not paying the taxes that you want to take out of their pockets. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. López Ares. Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't intend to use the replica shift, but before the sart of lies and the fact that I've hit the world record by talking five minutes and not telling a single truth, I'm going to put one thing on the table using one of the examples you set. Is it about these self-employed fictitious people who were commenting - which can be real - for example, an self-employed person who has a bar and who has three hired workers and who is now going to see how the minimum wage goes up? Do you know what's gonna happen? Do you know what the problem is with that business, that it has that bar, that it has that autonomous? Is the problem really the wages of workers? No, they don't lie; the problem is they don't have customers. And you don't have customers because people don't have a hard one, and people don't have a hard one because of you..., because you developed a labor reform that drove millions of people out of the street and facilitated dismissal. [[Applauds]] I'll give you a data, in case you don't know him. The country's GDP, the wealth we generate by the workers, is already greater today than it had before the outbreak of the economic crisis and before its austerity policies and cutbacks policies. GDP is higher. You know what's not old? Wages. Do you know how much we've lost on the wages of the workers? EUR 35 billion. With that 35 billion euros at best the ordinary people of this country would have money to go to the bar of that autonomous, so that they could make more business, more cash and so that they could pay their three workers not more than 900 euros, but much more than 900 euros, which is what they deserve. That is, they do not lie and do not say that this is a measure against the autonomous, because it is not. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Mr Matute García de Jalón, first of all, has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. I first announce the meaning of our vote. We will vote against the amendment to the whole of the People's Party. I would like to take advantage of some of the time I have to point out that the proposal for a law on Podemos, which we would support - concerning the minimum interprofessional wage of 900 euros - still seems to us - as it seemed to us two years ago, and so we point out - that it homogenizes and does not encourage a landing to the reality too fair. It seems reasonable to me, and of course Euskal Herria Bildu would never oppose raising the inter-professional minimum wage from where it is now at EUR 900. We believe that if that helps to even partially dignify people's lives, it is something to be supported. But it is not the same economic reality that lives in the different territories of the Spanish State, so the Podemos de Euskadi itself, like Euskal Herria Bildu, with the Basque trade union majority, are raising in Euskal Herria, in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre an interprofessional minimum wage that is above 1200 euros. Therefore, when readings are made that tend to homogenize if you like - even with this increase - a reality is being left out that, unfortunately - or fortunately, I don't know - makes 900 euros a salary that you can't live with decently in our country. Beyond that, I would like to address the representative of the People's Party on what has to do with her amendment as a whole. We are faced with a smaller rise than the one proposed by the law, and also conditional on the progress of the economy above 2.5. As artists have been growing the economy in what times, for a long time they gave it to these people with that salary increase. In any case, look at the anachronistic and unfair nature of this economic model, which makes it seem excessive to us to raise the interprofessional minimum wage to 900 euros, but it seems to us from every reasonable point that Mr Sánchez Galán, President of Iberdrola, covers 42 000 euros a day - and this goes beyond the previous example -. So unfair is this model: it is reasonable that someone who sells his labour force and generates a surplus value must have such a miserable salary and it seems to us absolutely reasonable that Mr Galán takes 42 000 euros a day, because that is the progress of the economy. I am not going to devote much more time because I believe that in the end this is a matter of priorities, and the People's Party has expressed on more than one occasion that its priority is to exalt the national pride and to make the Spanish flag a symbol that is accessible to all and exposed everywhere. I don't know, perhaps they could tell all the people who today are denied the possibility of having a somewhat dignified interprofessional minimum wage that, when they throw them out of work, they pay the mortgage with the flag; that, when they cut off the light, they light up with the flag; or that, when they cut off the water, they shower with the flag and, of course, that, when they unhook them, they begin to live under their flag. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. We will reject this amendment as a whole. We are convinced that the economy, the labour market and the welfare state need an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage. We are convinced that changing the productive model and addressing the problem of labour poverty, among other measures, requires such an increase in the minimum wage. We are also convinced that the sustainability of the welfare state and, in particular, the sustainability of the public pension system are closely linked to such measures. We can share the concern expressed by some economic spokespersons about whether a significant increase such as that which, hypothetically, would occur - if the government finally approves the corresponding rule to increase the minimum wage - could have some kind of contraindication, but what is true is that the horizon of that growth of the minimum wage must be addressed absolutely. Now, as we are in the debate on a proposal for a law of the United Group We may have pending its processing, I will express a reflection, shared with which the spokesman for Bildu has expressed and which will be amendments that the Democratic Party will put forward in this proposal for a law, which is the need to go to minimum wages of a territorial nature. The minimum wage that can be adequate for the whole State, for countries such as Catalonia, is clearly insufficient. This is not a debate that we can raise in a sovereignist or nationalist logic, but it is good to remember that in other federal countries minimum wages are state wages, as in the United States; even in the United States they are city wages. These days, within the framework of the Economic and Social Council of the city of Barcelona, the idea of a specific minimum wage for Barcelona and its area was raised. This is an outstanding debate that we must address. At the same time, with regard to the impact of the growth of the minimum wage on those who have the greatest difficulty in joining the labour market, I would like to refer not only to the People's Group but also to the Socialist Group, the need to take into account the impact that the increase in the minimum wage can have on special employment centres. There will have to be some formula, some mechanism - if this increase in the SMI finally takes place - to compensate these special employment centres, especially the special employment centres which work with people with special difficulties. Catalonia and Euskadi have a very active non-profit fabric in offering employment to these professional profiles, to which this measure can harm. In such cases, some compensation should be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u89	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[The lady]] When I read this initiative the first thing that crossed my mind was to think about what and why. Why is this initiative now presented in a specific context in which there is already another parliamentary initiative dealing with the same subject, in a context in which this initiative has no more than two years of processing or no processing, because it is blocked by the Bureau, precisely at the will of both the People's Party and the citizens? What is the point of such an important issue as that of the inter-professional minimum wage and why in this area and at that time we have not tried to raise this same alternative, but in the context of the parliamentary debate in the Commission and not in the context of an amendment to the whole? Because if we go to the bottom, what we are talking about, both in that legislative initiative and in this one, is whether we guarantee with it the content of both the ILO Convention and Article 4.2 of the European Social Charter, which seeks to guarantee to all workers the right - and it literally points out this - to a fair remuneration, understood as a sufficient remuneration that provides workers and their families with a decent standard of living. And that's the question: With this initiative do we get close to that? Because in the debate on the legislative initiative that Podemos raised and which was taken into consideration in this House, we also raised some doubts and projected them towards the subsequent presentation in which we were going to debate, which we could have done if we had not been hindered, but what is not possible is to put forward a permanent obstacle to this debate of a necessary updating of a concept as elementary as that of the interprofessional minimum wage, on which, said with all due respect, we are too far removed to understand that as a society we can approach sufficient parameters of justice and dignity. And for what? In the rapporteur's own statement, a disjunctive has been raised which is already revealed in the explanatory part of the amendment as a whole and raises a disjunctive which comes to say something like that the increase or excessive growth of the interprofessional minimum wage becomes an element that alters the production system in such a way that it becomes, as a result of adding costs, a stumbling block to employment growth, which would act as a deterrent to the possibility of creating new jobs. Well, Your Honor, that is a statement that we do not take part in, with which we do not agree, but it is not that we say that we are legos in this matter, it is that it has said - a few days ago we have been able to read his interview in El País - George Stigler, prestigious Nobel Prize in Economics, in which he comes to remember that not only that statement is false, but that perhaps the economic doctrine in force at the moment proposes its interpretation in the opposite direction. That is to say, what is being pointed out is that precisely the increase in the wages of those who are in the worst condition, of those wages which affect the dignity of the people most, of those wages which need to have the greatest purchasing power, because they do not have it today, what comes to result is in two definite effects: one, in which the business fabric strives to adjust its management and structure at a rate of efficiency that does not make its projection, its viability depend solely on the wage; and the other, there is one element as simple as it is not that it projects the capacity to consume more, is that the collective of those who will be able to receive a better minimum wage, more suitable to that parameter of 60% referred to in Article 4.2, what is going to do is to add to the greater capacity of consumption, precisely because they are those who have less capacity to save. Well, in that situation we misunderstand this proposal, wrong because even - let me tell you - it is to some extent inconsistent or contradictory with the position that the People's Party has held when it was in government. Let us remember, with all due respect, but it is fair to say, that the Government at the time proposed another disjunctive, and that it was necessary to create employment and that, in order to create employment, other parameters such as the quality of employment, understood also in the wage level parameter, had to be sacrificed. And that explanation was linked to a situation of crisis, of contraction of the economy. And the question is: If we are now in a situation of expansion, is it not right that at this time it is precisely those who have suffered the greatest impact as a result of the crisis who can benefit and to a greater degree and not so much, but approaching parameters of the European Social Charter, of that increase in the minimum wage so that they can finally obtain a degree of dignity that can be recognized? Well, unlike what you're pointing out, the approach of this bill moves away from those parameters, and it also does so with an added feature. They must be recognised as a right-wing issue, for example, in December 2007 they achieved a necessary element for this update, which is the social agreement. It is true that the presence of the social actors in some way legitimizes the proposal made by the People's Party, but I would like to point out two things to you now: one, that agreement is a year ago, that is, its validity and its actuality may have to be questioned both in its content for its antiquity and also because the Government in force at that time was that of the People's Party which had other different ideological parameters which were also projected on the social agreement itself; two, there is one element which has not been discussed and it is that, for the updating of the interprofessional minimum wage, it is the Government that is empowered, by article 27 of the Workers' Statute, to do so. Well, as a result of that agreement, the Government of the People's Party did not update the inter-professional minimum wage and could have done so; it did not do so in the terms and parameters set out in this legislative proposal. Therefore, we do not understand this proposition from that parameter either. Therefore, Your Honor, we are going to vote against. We are going to vote against it because we believe that this is not the necessary measure, perhaps in its content we could come a little closer to what you were proposing than to what the Podemos Group at the time proposed, primarily in the sequencing of this increase, but above all it does not seem appropriate to us because we believe that it is a deliberately obstructive decision of a debate that was already present in the House. Therefore, Your Honor, let me say that we will not be able to support your amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u90	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u91	Good morning to everyone again. It is obvious that we are against the amendment to the whole of the People's Party. We are no longer going to waste time arguing with the extreme right, but we are going to take advantage of the intervention to talk about the interprofessional minimum wage, to talk... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u92	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u93	There seems to be little interest in the interprofessional minimum wage. Let's talk to those who can really make changes in this state. Then a preview is worth it. I guess next time - this is for all leftist groups - who talk about budgets will not fool anyone else by linking the approval of the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage with budgets. Let us be a little honest in this regard. The interprofessional minimum wage can be passed with a simple bill or with a royal decree-law, do not deceive us anymore. Having said that, they once again put us before the choice between the bad and the least bad. If we support the proposal - we will, of course, not support the amendment as a whole but move forward with this proposal for a law - it will not be without saying that the above proposal does not satisfy us equally... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u95	...that we would present or that we would bring here today to have a majority or even that we would legislate for a Catalonia to have full sovereignty. Indeed, it is difficult to understand this amount of 800 or 900 euros per month, amounts with which the minimum needs of workers cannot be met. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u96	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u97	We cannot be satisfied that people who work for 40 hours or more a week do not arrive at the end of the month. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u98	Wait a minute, Your Honor. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u99	It is a pity that the interprofessional minimum wage, the truth, is not of interest.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u100	Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u101	Just like some have it covered. How can we accept the proposed amount when a person living in Girona, for example, just a few kilometres beyond the border, arrives in Perpinyà and can no longer work for less than 1480 euros, which is the French minimum wage? Is it that these companies have less competitiveness by being a few miles beyond? Please! Or how can we accept that these amounts should be proposed by left-wing governments if it does not reach the salary recommendation of the 1961 European Social Charter, ratified by the Kingdom of Spain in 1980? That is to say, thirty-eight years later, the Kingdom of Spain still does not comply with this Social Charter, in this Spain of its own, that Spain to which they defend to fuck while they are unable to prevent poverty to more than 30% of its inhabitants. They are unable to set an inter-professional minimum wage above 1100 euros, as the ratified European Social Charter tells us, which comes from thirty-eight years ago. Nor are we satisfied with the elements or conditions laid down when setting the minimum inter-professional wage, which are too general and poorly controlled by trade union organisations and by citizens in general. For example, the one in subparagraph (d), which is set out as an element to be considered of the general economic situation, a concept that we already know what it means, that the broken dishes should be paid for as usual. We would certainly like another higher amount and another more guaranteed wording, but we are who we are and, as it is said in my country or box or strip. That is why we are going to support the proposal for a law, not the amendment to the whole, as a transitional step towards its further improvement and controlling how far we can comply with its increase when circumstances arise. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u102	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Díaz Pérez, you've been standing so long talking that my words don't work for you. And I say Mrs Díaz, but I could refer to many more of your ladies and gentlemen. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u103	Thank you very much, President. We also do this out of commitment and by giving the public the understanding that if the left and the progressives joined together, we could change many things. I now turn to the Socialist Party, which is in charge. I tell you again what I once told you here from your rostrum when you brought us a motion of these that are useless: the only motion we expected from the workers of this country, as you say, was the motion of censure, and we voted for it for free. Well, now we're asking for more. Along the same lines, we ask you what the working classes of the different peoples of this State really expect, which not only - as I said in the previous non-law proposal - defend civil liberties and the resolutions of conflicts such as that of Catalonia in a democratic way. We also ask you to be truly courageous and to differentiate once and for all from this extreme right that we all cast out of the Government together with our votes. We ask you to differentiate yourselves also by being true socialists and to use yourselves thoroughly with the electoral programme with which you came forward, and do not tell us that you do not add up, because you can add up, as we said in the motion of censure. You repeal the labor reforms that cause wage devaluation, which you have not even tried, be courageous, that of Zapatero and that of Rajoy, giving trade unionists what is theirs, the right to collective bargaining. Today there is no collective bargaining because you laid it down. Be brave, here you can add, but don't even try. [[Applauds]] As I said, be real socialists. And if they have to blackmail us with budgets and other things, if they have to blackmail us, if they have the shame of asking us to change social rights for civil liberties, if they have the shame to ask us for social rights in exchange for not releasing our prisoners, our friends, our exiles, if they have this shame, at least try a little harder, try a little harder and bring us something more than what they are bringing us, because they can do it: civil liberties, social freedoms, labor, the law bites. Comply with your program and be truly an alternative Spain at once. Be brave, be a new Suárez but from the left, who are not doing it. Then we'll start talking and talking, as long as we don't. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u104	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment to the whole with an alternative text on the proposal for a law to raise the minimum wage of United-Possible. In this Chamber I believe that there is not a single Member of one group who does not agree on the need to raise the minimum wage, for justice, for dignity and because it is our responsibility to ensure that our citizens have the best quality of life. The discrepancy, in what we may or may not agree, which is legitimate, is as to the amount of that rise and the speed with which it takes place. I have to tell you that, while I was preparing this speech, I reviewed a lot of works, studies and publications by different economists - some have already named them here - such as Paul Krugman or Joseph Stiglitz, who cannot be accused of being neoliberal, precisely. Both defend the rise of the minimum wage for the Spanish State, and say it as a very positive thing. They set hundreds of studies as an example, but, as Mr Rodríguez rightly said, the studies we are asked to do are from Seattle and other cities in the United States. I must tell you that the Spanish market has neither the sensitivity nor the dynamism of the United States. By the way, Mr Rodriguez, I'm glad you set the example of South Korea and not North Korea. That's fine with me. [[Applauds]] As I said, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree on the need to raise the minimum wage. Let's look at the advantages. The first has already made it clear, by having more disposable income, people with less wages are going to create a virtuous circle, that economic growth they have told us about, higher income, higher expenditure or higher domestic demand, higher economic growth and, consequently, higher employment growth. Then there is another important element, and it is that those who are in favour of redistributing income talk about that income coming out of the theoretical profits of companies, which are going to improve without there being any tax effort of any kind. These two arguments would be definitive for us all to agree that the minimum wage must be raised, but in economics, as you know, reality does not always go hand in hand with theory. Let me tell you that there are also prestigious economists who are detractors and who speak clearly of what the disadvantages of that rise may be, when above all it is radical. First of all, when we talk about companies in Spain, everyone thinks that El Corte Inglés, Telefónica or Zara are references to our labour market, to our business market, and the reality is that the economic structure of Spain is full of small and medium-sized enterprises, micro- and self-employed, more than 90%, and for them an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage of 22% in a single year can be a blow without anesthesia that causes the closure of many of them. I'll give you an example. The other day I was meeting in the Canary Islands with an agrarian group and I was told that in the typical exploitation that they have is the worker himself, the self-employed himself, and two or three pawns. I was told that logically a rise of this type would strike them in such a way that they would have only two solutions: the first, to dispense with one of those operators, one of those pawns, and the second, which seems to me to be very serious, to use the submerged economy. The second of the elements that we have to value when talking about the minimum wage is who it affects. It affects 10% of the population, and we are talking mainly about our young people who have no experience and the elderly who have unfortunately been taken off after the economic crisis; that is, people who really have a low qualification and who we have to support. Complementary measures must be taken to prevent the possible destruction of jobs. There are studies that speak of up to 180 000, and the most optimistic ones speak of 40 000, but what we have clearly is that it can have harmful effects. Since I do not like to talk about the theories of the United States or South Korea either, let me talk about our European neighbours. Among the most successful countries in applying this minimum wage, we find Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, which - it is true - have managed to maintain and grow, even in employment, with a significant increase in the minimum wage. But we are talking about economies that are mainly based on industry, which are also export-oriented, and that have developed their internal markets and modernized their economies, and have therefore managed to increase productivity, which has made this increase in the minimum wage not result in the destruction of employment. On the opposite side there are recent examples from other European countries. I can tell you about Portugal, Latvia, Lithuania, which also bet on raising the minimum wage, but with the disastrous consequences that can arise. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I can share things with you about your amendment, of course it seems important to me that we get back to collective bargaining, with the social partners, but let me give you a good idea of how to present it. He knows perfectly well that, now that a deadline for amendments is opened, he can table it as a partial amendment. I think that is what we need to do, to discuss all of them by clearly improving the text on which the rise in the minimum wage is going to hang. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, let me ask you two things. The first is to talk to Mr Sánchez, to Dr Sánchez or to the President of the Government, to any of the three personalities he has on the day they speak to him, and to tell him that we already know that he is working, that he is talking, that he is studying and that he is negotiating, but that the world is still doing all that while doing it and that this country cannot be kept on the basis of daily probe balloons, as the last one we have known today of the supposed agreement it has with the autonomous associations. We'll see if it crystallizes. The second thing I'm going to tell you - and you'll let me tell you that we already know that you're working, talking, studying and negotiating - is that there's another verb that you always forget and that you really should conjugate because it's the one you do most, that's lying and I'm going to tell you why. You lied, Mr. Sánchez lied when he said he was filing a motion of censure to return the word to the Spaniards... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u106	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u107	He also lied and lied when he said that the rise in taxes was going to be paid by the rich, but we are clear that diesel oil is not going to be paid by the rich. He continues to lie and lie when he says that those who are against general budgets that increase budgets are against the minimum wage. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u108	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u109	You know that you can approve the minimum wage without having to rely on the State's General Budgets. Finally, he lied and lied when he said that this increase in the minimum wage would not lead to any increase in the costs of self-employed contributions and the last thing we know is that it will be at least EUR 60. We'll see, because we already know that you're very much given to change your mind from morning to afternoon. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we will abstain because we understand that the important thing is not to end up harming those workers we want to benefit from. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u110	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group says no to the amendment which is being debated here and which opposes the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, which is also foreseen in the General State Budgets next year. The Socialist Group's refusal to approve the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party is based on the imperative need to increase the inter-professional minimum wage and on the firm and decisive will to combat the catastrophic arguments of those accustomed to sowing the policy of fear, showing their tireless involvement in recidivism in the actions that deepen the quality of life of the workers of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage agreed by the Government and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u112	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u113	... contributes to lessening the vehement and full burden of inequalities that, under the pretext of the crisis, was deposited affluently and unjustly on the backs of the working class. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u114	Please, the chatter outside the Chamber. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u115	The €900 increase, which will come into force in the next financial year, is an ambitious step, but only a step in the immense task of balancing the balance of inequalities that the People's Party Government practiced and executed against Spanish workers. The increase in the interprofessional minimum wage is an act of solidarity with that segment of Spanish society which, astonishment, has had to hear of the alleged Spanish economic miracle and of a clumsy economic recovery that the working class has not seen at all and that much less has felt that it had even minimal impact on its pockets. While in our country non-financial corporations increased their sales by 67%, the wage mass fell by 12%, i.e. 75 billion more profits and 42 billion less wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage not only implies the achievement of economic progress in the field of work, but it could also be said that it is covered by the condition of reparatory element of more than documented grievances with studies and statistics that endorse the shameful injustice suffered by the working class which, while contemplating how it was impoverished, the select club of the great fortunes increased its insulting account of results. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are opposed to the position of the People's Party because we want to move on the path of economic recovery for the workers of our country and also to make progress in restoring the rights of the working class, a working class which unfortunately, despite having a job, in many cases has not been able to escape from relative poverty or the risk of social exclusion. The discourse of fear, that of economic uncertainty, is the tool that those who oppose the increase of the minimum wage, but that sowing of economic terror collides with the impoverished reality in which the working class unfolds. Is there a voice in this House that feels morally authorized to deny the existence of those sadly known as poor workers? Ladies and gentlemen, 15% of the workers in our country are poor. Does anyone in this Chamber feel in the moral condition of denying the clear evidence that while a majority was impoverished a minority increased their wealth levels by relying on the suffering and cuts in the rights of workers in our country? Ladies and gentlemen, the theory of fear, the theory of chaos this time does not hold. And it doesn't hang because the vast majority of Spaniards and Spaniards are aware of the rumbling figures of macroeconomics; figures that have been written with the sweat and the exclusive effort of the working class. As your ladies and gentlemen also know, there have been no negative effects on other increases in the interprofessional minimum wage, such as that carried out by the socialist government between 2004 and 2008; or those approved in 2017 and 2018. Moreover, there is already an agreement to raise the minimum wage of agreements to EUR 1000 in 14 payments, and this agreement has been reached by the CEO, Cepyme, Workers' Commissions and UGT. Therefore, the proposal agreed between the Government and the United States We can only continue in this same direction. It is such the prevailing fatigue among the workers of our country, that this time the apocalyptic trumpet at the service of the spokespersons of those who have made August and the four stations complete with the effort of the workers, will not have the effect of the global panic that they sown at the beginning of the crisis and that it served as an extraordinary excuse to annihilate much of the rights conquered by the workers' movements at different stages of our history. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u116	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u117	On this occasion, fear, panic and even uncertainty as a minor weapon that is attempted from power centers do not have a pass. In this way, the debate on the economic consequences resulting from the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage does not at this time know of a majority of voices that can certify with authority the debacle that the agrarians to the dictates of those who live highlighted before the adoption of any measure that will benefit the Spanish workers. It is therefore clear the position of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which says no to the amendment tabled by the People's Party against the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage. But, ladies and gentlemen, today your right, the right of the People's Party, has voted against universal public health, the right to strike and now the interprofessional minimum wage. Rather than vote against, they have been opposed to public services, fundamental rights and freedoms and improvements in the living conditions of citizens. That is why we invite you to reflect and seek an answer to the following question: What is it worth talking about as a homeland if you are unable to make policies for your fellow countrymen? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u118	Let us move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the agreement on direct and single reading of the draft law on improving the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. No speeches are expected on this point, so we shall proceed to the vote. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the vote on the motions following an inquiry. First, we will vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the impact of government measures on self-government. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 171 against, 14 abstentions, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u120	It's approved. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the public management of water in the cities. [[File number 173/000121]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u121	We now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on public water management in the municipalities. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 167 against, 165 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u122	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u123	We now vote for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. We will vote on Royal Decree-Law 16/2018 of 26 October, adopting certain measures to combat the illicit traffic in persons and goods in relation to the vessels used. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 328 plus 3 telematics votes, 331; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u124	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 21 plus 2 telematics votes, 23; against, 317 plus 1 telematics vote, 318; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u125	Consequently, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u126	We shall now vote on amendments to all legislative initiatives. First, the amendment of the entire alternative text to the bill on universal access to the National Health System, from Royal Decree-Law 7/2018 of 27 July, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 plus 3 telematics votes, 341; 132; 177 plus 3 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u127	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER, OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/000025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u128	We move on to the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for an organic law amending the Criminal Code of 23 November 1995 by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 135; 204 plus 3 telematics votes, 207.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u129	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u130	We now proceed to vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the bill on fixing the amount of the inter-professional minimum wage, tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 132; 175 plus 3 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u131	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u132	And we now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the agreement to proceed directly and in one reading with the bill to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 309 plus 3 telematics votes, 312; against, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-15-CD181115.u133	As a result, direct and read-only processing by the plenary of the above-mentioned bill is approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
