ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. [[Rumors]] I beg your gentlemen to remain silent and to take your seats. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u2	Mr Sánchez, I am going to ask you the same question that you asked President Rajoy in the motion of censure: what else has to happen if you understand that your presence at the head of the government is harmful and a blow to the country? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your question, Mr. Married. I believe that to lead economic growth in Europe, that the rate of employment growth during these first months of 2018 has been higher than that of the euro area; to also redistribute economic growth among the social majority by recovering, for example, the universality of public health, fighting against job insecurity or reversing cuts in public education that the parliamentary majority has perpetuated during the last seven years of the People's Party, acting, Mr Casado, for the benefit of all, to vote for and think what they think. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Married, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u6	Mr Sánchez, it is enough to read the front pages of today's press to see that your government is walking on the back of lies and authoritarianism. The lie because today we have seen once again that evidence is published that what they do is to highlight their lies, and no matter how much you threaten the press or how much you don't want to appear in this Congress, the People's Party is going to make you appear in the Senate to explain everything the press requires you to do. And authoritarianism because yesterday we saw a law fraud, we saw how you want to gag the Senate and do so also through the Law against Gender Violence. We will seek amparo on the basis of Article 31 of this House, with six rulings from the Constitution; we will not allow what you already see as not defending in Chile, which is that, as in Venezuela, when they do not like a House by their majority, or duplicate or close it. Mr Sánchez, it's not that your government doesn't move forward, it's that your government falls apart. The Minister of Culture fell at three days; the Minister of Health fell at three months. We'll see what's going on with the Justice and the National Court, the Defense and the rectification of the spokesman, who seemed rather like Gila's war monologue. We will see what happens to the foreigner, who renounces defending Spanish sovereignty over Gibraltar at the same time as saying that Catalonia is a nation. Or Territorial Policy, which says I'd like the independent prisoners to be on the street. Or that of the Interior, which instead of enforcing the Euroorder what it does is to let another Belgian court humiliate Spain, in this case defending an uplifter of terrorism. Or that of Industry, which launches a probe balloon that can explode on the face of the 40,000 workers in the diesel sector. Or the Ministry of Development, which now says that empty housing must be penalized. What's next? Expropriate parked cars? But worst of all, Mr. Sanchez, is that you, to hide this mess, pull an irresponsible rabbit out of the joke. Do you think Spain is going to make a constitutional reform? Can we ask for a referendum? With the batsuns asking to annex Navarra? The one you're falling for in Catalonia? What is needed is to put order, apply 155 as much time as it takes; put order in education and, if necessary, touch the competences. Mr. Sanchez, you've got a big Moncloa. And as much as he repeats every time he opens his mouth that you are the president of the government, the habit does not make the monk. The best thing you can do is to free Spain from this ballast. Call elections as soon as possible. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u7	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, advice I see I don't have for myself. [[Several Members: There, there!-Applause]] In any case, I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Casado. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and this Government want to amend an anachronistic law in our political system, which is the Budget Stability Act, which confers veto power on the Senate that has no other law. Therefore, we are doing what we are doing is to incorporate an amendment to an organic law. By the way, be well informed because it is not about gender-based violence, it is about training judges for everything that has to do with gender-based violence. [[Laughter and applause]] I say this because there are two of them: in the previous control session you make a somewhat still historical appointment and today you have not read the role that says where exactly we have incorporated that additional. [[Rumors]] Mr Casado, I will tell you that what we really want is to open up a debate that is necessary in this House, which has a parliamentary majority behind it and that a parliamentary minority - you and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - are blocking the Bureau of Congress. [[Applauds]] With this, you are a Democrat, Mr. Married: unblock the debate on the Budget Stability Act in the Congress of Deputies. What are you afraid of? Look, Mr. Married, you and I had a meeting before I left for the summer, we left for the summer, and I offered him five pacts, Mr. Married, five pacts: I offered him a pact on migration, I offered him a pact on European policy, I offered him a pact on gender-based violence, I offered him a pact on science and a pact on infrastructure. [[rumors]] You haven't said anything about it at all. The only thing you are doing is opposing the government even at the risk of opposing yourself, because many of the things you said in this House defended them a hundred days ago to the contrary as a spokesman for the People's Party, in the government at the time. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN TARDA I COMA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVE THAT THE BEST FORMULA IS FOR INDEPENDENTISTS AND NOT INDEPENDENTISTS OF CATALUNE TO DECIDE HIS FUTURE IN EQUAL CONDITIONS WITHOUT SEEING HIS LEGITIMOUS POLITICAL SPIRITS VULNERATED? [[File number 180/000711]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u10	He also asked the chairman of Mr Joan Tardà i Coma of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u11	Mr President, what formula do you have in mind so that Catalan independenceists and non-independenceists can freely decide their future on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tardà, I believe that in the opposition and also in the government this party, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which supports both the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government of Spain, has argued that a political crisis that has been going on in Catalonia for a decade cannot be brought to justice. But we too have warned, Mr Tardà, precisely in the face of the breakdown of legislation that occurred by the independent parliamentary majority on 6 and 7 September 2017. [[Rumors]] With this I believe that what we have to do is use that double path, law and dialogue. Let us respect the law and find ways to bring about that dialogue that I believe needs both non-nationalist Catalans and nationalists on their territory. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u14	Go ahead, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u15	With all due respect, Mr Sánchez, your position seems somewhat hypocritical politically to the extent that you urge Catalan society to engage in dialogue, but at the same time your proposal is to exclude 2 400 000 Catalans who we self-determine a year ago. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] And exclusion can never be a solution because nothing can be built against the will of half of the Catalan independenceists, in the same way that nothing can be built against the will of half of the Catalans who are not. Then, there is only one solution: to build through the plans of democratic principles a tool, a referendum, to which all Catalans feel called to the extent that their aspirations and desires are integrated. An exclusion scenario is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, and if it is also a scenario of revenge and scaring, even more. Look: if you, for example, do not urge the State Attorney General to withdraw the charge of rebellion, how will it be possible to agree on budgets? Almost, almost, it's impossible. [[Rumors.-Several ladies and gentlemen: Oh!]] And he laughs, laughs at the crisis between Catalonia and Spain or the emotional crisis between Catalans and Spanish that signified the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010 in relation to the Statute of Autonomy if the Supreme Court does not now decide an acquittal and condemns the legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia elected in the ballot box to decades of imprisonment. So, what's the solution? The solution can only be dialogue, the solution can only be negotiation and agreements. For what? So that the Catalans can finally decide in a referendum, a referendum endorsed by the international community, in which the Catalans can decide whether the future goes by making Catalonia more autonomous or whether Catalonia should be a republic. This is the solution. And as you want Catalonia to express this democratic feeling, and you also know perfectly well that Catalonia will be your political tomb if it does not deepen... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tardà, when I hear the independent political forces say that we must obey the mandate of 1 October, I always remember the percentage of participation in the total census, if we take into account and give good account the participation data that you offered during that night: around 47 %. Let's give them up for good. On 21 December, 80 % of Catalan society voted, Mr Tardà, 80 %. I believe that both the Government of Spain and, above all, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, if they have to fulfil a mandate, is that of 21 December. On December 21, what was seen was a block of independenceists and another block that defends another set of values in Catalonia. Therefore, what is the priority, at least for this Government and that we are transferring to the Government of the Generalitat? The priority is not independence, the priority is coexistence, which is called into question, Mr Tardà. Therefore, of course, the Government will promote dialogue. We are doing it through the bilateral commissions, we are doing it through the Security Board, which met a few days ago. We are pushing this institutional normalisation as a step ahead of social normalisation, but you, Mr Tardà, the independenceist bloc in the Catalan Parliament, what you have to do is not leave this Parliament closed during September and open the dialogue tables for a dialogue to take place between Catalans, Catalans and non-Catalans against Catalans, which unfortunately is what we have had for a long time in that territory. Therefore, Mr Tardà, all I can tell you is that no more walls and no more gaps; coexistence, and that is where this government will be. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u18	Thank you. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOESN'T THE ANNOUNCEMENTS THAT ARE PURSUANT TO HISTORY MEMORY LOOK TO YOU AS YOUR GOVERNMENT IS NOT MAKING ANY WAY TO AMEND OR MINIMIZE THE IMPACT OF THE FORCE OF THE Official Secrets Act of 1968? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00708]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u19	He also asked the chairman of Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u20	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. President. You are making many announcements about historical memory. However, they are not holding any demonstrations or communicating their will with regard to the Official Secrets Act. Don't you think this is contradictory?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u22	I'm sorry you're not listening at all on the top benches. On this matter, Mr Esteban, I will tell you that we agree to reform the Official Secrets Act. We believe, like you, that this is legislation that comes from the pre-constitutional period. The Historical Memory Act will now be amended by parliamentary procedure and I believe that we will be able to find a comprehensive consensus there. Regardless of this reform, the Government is already showing its political will to provide this matter with greater transparency and we are considering the possibility of generally authorizing the consultation of documents belonging to the Military General Archives of Ávila. I believe that with this we can account for that demand for transparency that you are requesting through your group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u24	I think it's very good about Avila's Military General Archive, but I think you can go a lot further. There are two agreements, one of 1986 by the Gonzalez Government, on which the PP Government has been based to deny much information, and another agreement of 2010 by the Zapatero Government, proposed by Moratinos, in which, in general, instead of making it document by document, as is in principle the spirit of the Franco law even, there is a blockage of any document that arises from the Government and in addition not only in the future, but also from the previous ones. What's going on? That, for example, with that agreement all Spanish diplomatic notes are impossible to consult. That is in your hand; just as previous governments have made an abusive and extensive interpretation of the law, so can you. Delete the 2010 agreement, delete the 1986 agreement. Stop truth commissions and let's open the files, because without opening the files it's very difficult to know the truth. Then the researchers, with those documents, will be able to write and everyone will have their vision, but that is where we have to go because to a unique and general conclusion we certainly do not all arrive. The Official Secrets Act has to be promoted here, we must not ask for postponement after postponement to bring the paper together, as you have done again this week. I also think that they have to rectify the amendments they have tabled because with these amendments until 2030 no document can be declassified, until 2030; - I do not tell you what Citizens are proposing, which is until 2040 - and then it will be periodically. I believe that this is not in line with the parameters of the countries in the environment, it has to be shorter periods and it has to be with a scheme and a criterion only temporary. And with the Historical Heritage Act, even if the documents are classified as secret, the chiefs of the archives can deny those documents according to their criteria, if they believe that the defence or interest of Spain or even the privacy of some people is at risk. That's not...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban. I believe that in this House there is a majority that shares that the resource you have described as extensive or that can be intensive of official secrecy is already meaningless and that, therefore, we must incorporate transparency into all the archives of the Administration. We admit to the procedure and support precisely the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group to begin the elaboration of a new law of official secrets. It is clear that we do not have the same approach as the Conservative groups in the House. I also understand, Mr Esteban, that we can discuss and agree on a more or less long period of time, on the fixing of derogations, on automatic declassification or on the terms of the transitional arrangements. And if we do it right, Mr Esteban, I am convinced that we can achieve, guarantee and combine the defence of general interests and also contribute to the full recovery of our history and to the knowledge of public affairs, which is what I believe will ultimately be reflected in your question. With regard to the countries in our environment, we are doing the same, Mr Esteban. You know that all democratic States have rules to protect information that could seriously affect State security and the defence of their general interests and also provide for a limitation period after which this information is declassified and made public. It is done by all the countries in our environment and also by Spain. In any case, Mr Esteban, of course, the Spanish Government has the vocation of being transparent and taking steps to bring this important law into line with the democratic times and demands of this moment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u27	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN OF PAPERS MONTSERRAT MONTSERRAT, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT'S MIGRATION POLICY CONSIDERED OR IN EXISTING? [[File number 180/000718]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u28	Question addressed to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Equality. Question by Mrs Dolors Montserrat from the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u29	Thank you, President. Vice-President, do you consider the immigration policies of the Government of Spain to be unsuccessful or non-existent?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u30	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Nonexistent, the policy you maintained; ours, coherent. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u32	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. Mrs. Montserrat, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u33	Thank you, President. Vice-President, of all the most bloody Government corrections have been made in immigration policy. You have moved from the open-arm reception in Valencia to the hot return in Ceuta. Your obsession with demagogy, propaganda, makes you forget the drama of thousands of women, men and children who come to seek a better future. [[Several Members: Come on now!-A lady Member: What a face!]] You play with dreams and hopes. And I will tell you more: today you demonstrate with this fraud that you give them equal means so as to achieve their ends. You're frivolous, you're anti-political. And back to the point, their frivolity makes them think only of the photos and the votes and forget that the mafias also read the newspapers. That is why this summer our coasts have been the gateway to Europe's immigration. I would like to ask you, Your Honor, which side of the fence is the Government of Spain on. [[Rumors]] They strongly support the police and the Civil Guard. I ask you: why has Pedro Sánchez not yet gone to Morocco? They strongly support cooperation and ties with Morocco. Immigration policy is a matter of state and Spain must lead, together with Europe, the policy of legal and employment-related immigration, because it is compatible the defence of human rights with the defense of our borders, because it is compatible to defend solidarity with legality. Madam Vice-President, you wanted to surprise the world with your monopoly of generosity, and you have surprised it, you have certainly surprised it, with the monopoly of incompetence and irresponsibility. His Government was the real effect called. With a president who only thinks about the photos, with a minister of the Interior who only thinks about taking the concertinas and with a vice president, you, who thinks that the borders - like public money - are nobody's. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u34	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Montserrat, I see you're going to specialize in asking me every Wednesday what you didn't do. You never met the Delegated Committee on Migration Affairs, you never met with the Autonomous Communities to solve the problem of unaccompanied minors. You're going to specialize in asking me what you didn't do to remind me here every Wednesday morning. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] To do politics is to have judgment and apply it to circumstances, and I will explain it to you. When 630 people were about to sink into the Mediterranean one day, this Government did not look elsewhere, this Government fulfilled its human rights obligations. And he did more: he put on the conscience of the rest of the governments of Europe - thanks to the action of President Sánchez - that this was a problem of Europe that was taking place in Spain; what you did not do because of absence and incompetence. But it is more: security; on the day that the border of this country is attacked, the security of our borders is launched in cooperation with Morocco. By the way, Mrs Montserrat, for the first time, from the European Fund for Africa is reaching thirty-seven million euros to strengthen also its cooperation mechanisms with Spain. Do you understand? Policy, efficiency, decisions, resolution of the problem of the MENA with the autonomous communities, an emergency plan that has approved Algeciras and Chiclana to care for immigrants. I will tell you in another way: do not point to that speech in Europe, that the People's Party does not point to the speech that Europe is blowing the wind of danger, of mistrust; point to defending the values of democracy, which is what Europe represents in the world. Don't shake that. As for the effect called, you, asking that here... [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU THINK TO ADOPTE THE GOVERNMENT TO FRENCH THE SUBJECT OF THE PRICE OF LIGHT? [[File number 180/000713]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u36	Question addressed to the Minister for the Ecological Transition. Question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u37	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. I deeply regret that the Vice-President has refused to answer this question precisely because it is a bad custom that Mrs Sáenz of Santamaría also had. I do not know whether Mrs Calvo thinks that the issue of the rise of light is a minor or sectoral issue, but I assure you that the millions of people who open the bill for light at the end of the month and see that now they pay 80 euros on average when they paid barely 43 years ago do not seem to be a minor issue, and even less a day on which we return to live a new annual maximum. So I ask you, Minister, what steps will the government take to curb the rise of light? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u38	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u39	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for your question, Your Honor. I assure you that the Vice-President does not consider it a minor matter, quite the contrary. The Government as a whole is concerned about what you say, because it is a fundamental factor in the development and well-being of citizens. It is true that there are multiple factors and basically things happen as a result of decisions by multiple actors over time and the stop or stop at structural reforms that, if necessary, should have been anticipated. As this afternoon I appear to talk about this topic and explain the set of actions in which we are working different ministries, I am advancing the three major areas of work in which we will present proposals. Firstly, protection for the most vulnerable, I believe it is the fundamental priority, addressing a comprehensive approach to combating energy poverty. Secondly, with the presentation of a short-term shock plan, those measures that can somehow cause the faithful of the balance to oscillate in the right direction, recovering the transformation path that we need. Thirdly, a proposal for structural reform; if we do not address structural reforms with regard to the functioning of the market and the tax system, it is very difficult for these things to be changed in a solid and stable way in the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u41	I am glad that the Government has proposals to lower the price of light, but I assure you that if you do not apply forceful and effective measures to lower the price of light, it will be very difficult for you to reach a budgetary agreement with us. In November 2017, exactly one year after Rosa died, Reus's old lady, because of a fire because she had to be lit with candles as she had been cut off from light, the three great electrics of our country, Iberdrola, Endesa and Natural Gas, recorded benefits of €43 billion, while they continued to cut people's light. And you know what these companies are? An oligopoly that controls 80 % of the market share. So what we'd like to know basically is whether you're going to be brave or not, whether you're going to break the ties that bind your party to the big electrics that are violating people's rights, whether you're going to choose to sit back on the big boards of electrics when you finish your term, as you've already done other former high socialists like Felipe González, or whether you're going to close once and for all with us the revolving doors and you're going to stand on the side of the people, of the working people who have to choose between paying the light or paying the extracurriculars. Minister, doing politics is choosing, and in this either you're with the electrics or you're with the people. If they are willing, they will find us at their side to reduce the public money that we give to the electricians in the form of benefits fallen from the sky; at their side to boost the energy transition and to bet on the renewable energies, which are cheaper; at their side to remove the barriers to electrical self-consumption, and at their side to promote plans such as that of the Madrid City Council, the Mother Plan, to rehabilitate the housing. That's where we'll be next to him. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u42	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u43	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I agree with you that we can only achieve a stable, predictable, reasonable price, with zero operating costs in electricity, if we complete an energy transition process that leads us to a 100 percent renewable and highly efficient system. But we have to go that way, that is what this is about and that is the responsibility of the Government. We will probably have to make major changes in the functioning of the market, but for now the priority, as you have rightly pointed out, is to address the response that those 4.6 million Spaniards who are in energy poverty deserve. Alongside this, as I say, there are a number of immediate impact measures that will allow us to change the overall tone of the operation of a sector which, on the other hand, has a bright future. The energy transition has electricity as a great clean vector, where the costs and deployment of renewable energy and democratization and the presence of a very different multiplicity of actors will be fundamental to working in that future that we all want. I hope and trust that, as you say, they will be at our side. This afternoon I think we can... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u44	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JORDI XUCLA I COSTA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: CONSIDERING THE GOVERNMENT THAT FORMS PART OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE SPANISH Ambassador IN FRANCE ENDING VALUE JUICES ON THE INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS OF THE PERPINARY RELATIONS? [[File number 180/000726]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u45	Questions now to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. Firstly, a question from Mr Jordi Xuclà i Costa, from the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u46	Thank you very much, President. Minister, why does the ambassador of Spain in France make a mockery and have a profoundly anti-diplomatic behavior by interfering with the freedom of assembly and expression of the mayor of Perpignan?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u47	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u48	I don't know what your honor means. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u49	Thank you very much. Quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see that you do not read Le Monde or the letters that your ambassadors send to representatives of other countries. [[Applauds]] The facts are extremely serious. With you in the ministry it seems that the People's Party still rules, because they are dedicated to making friends in the old way. On 31 August, Minister, the President of the Generalitat visits Perpignan, where he attends several events and institutional meetings. On September 4, the ambassador writes to the mayor: I see from the photos that you wear a yellow tie; I doubt that you are aware of the meaning of this symbol. Minister, do you consider that the ambassador believes that the mayor is foolish, that he does not have the capacity to exercise freedom of assembly, of expression, and to decide what is put in the flap? But, even more, he writes: I regret that he takes a position that does not represent the entire city council. Of course, it represents the mayor's position. It also accuses him of disrespect for democratic institutions. The mayor replied on September 7 to the Spanish ambassador to France. He expresses to you by letter that he is absolutely surprised by both the form and the background of the letter of the Ambassador, and continues: Since when should an elected French Republic, mayor of a large city, president of an urban community be justified on your statements, acts or actions before you or your embassy? He qualifies the letter as inadmissible and says he does not intend to answer on the merits. Moreover, the ambassador sends a copy to the President of the Senate, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the President of the General Council of the Eastern Pyrenees. Minister, don't be surprised, don't be displeased: the President of the General Council also has yellow ties on the balcony of the headquarters, and she is from the French Socialist Party, of the few bodies still run by the French Socialist Party. You're gonna make a big deal out of him? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u51	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u52	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now at least I know what you're talking about, the content of your question. I think the attitude of the Spanish ambassador to France was correct. You cannot say that the Ambassador of Spain to France has issued valuable judgments on the desirability of Mr Pujol receiving Mr Torra or putting any obstacles to the holding of this meeting; on the contrary, as is his obligation, he helped to hold it. It has not issued any value judgment on the desirability of this happening, but it does happen that, when a public authority of a foreign country officially receives in its office a Spanish personality who shows a symbol that means that in Spain there are political prisoners... [[A Member: There are political prisoners!-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u53	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u54	... and that, therefore, the Spanish judicial system is not independent, but that it is at the service of a government, it has to protest. He has to protest because this is not true, as he has admitted, by the way, nothing more or less than the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. I do not know if you read Le Monde, but if you read it, you would see that there and in other foreign newspapers it is reflected how the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe - does this institution in charge of ensuring respect for human rights in Europe sound to you? - says nothing more or less that the attitude of the Spanish Government on the subject of Catalonia is in line with Spanish law and the European Convention on Human Rights. This is said by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, who must have some authority with regard to respect for human rights. Therefore, if a public authority of a foreign country receives another public authority of Spain, which is also the highest representative of the State in Catalonia, as is Mr Torra, wearing a symbol that represents an absolute disqualification of the Spanish political system, the ambassador of Spain protests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PERE JOAN PONS SAMPIETRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES OF SPAIN IN THE NEXT UNITED NATIONS MINISTERIAL WEEK THAT YOU WILL HAVE PLACE IN NEW YORK AT THE END OF THIS SEPTEMBER? [[File number 180/000715]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u55	Question, also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation, by Mr Pere Joan Pons Sampietro of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning. Minister, you're a finezza man I don't know if you've drawn your attention, like this group, that the same ones who teach human rights lessons last week were those who supported Orbán and Salvini; I don't know if you've drawn your attention. A week after the United Nations summit we wanted, first of all, to remind the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, who is missing; a man who has built peace and whom we believe is the legacy that must be taken to the assembly next week. In the Socialist Group we are convinced that there are important issues on the table such as sustainable growth, such as the agenda for peace or issues of terrorism, security, human rights and, therefore, it is a summit that also comes with populism in the European and global mainstream, which is growing, growing, and also fuelled by the crisis of recent years, with more inequality, a more fragmented and multilateral world, with protectionism, with trade wars, with identity withdrawal, with conflicts such as digital and misinformation in electoral times, with challenges such as climate change, migration, terrorism, and with a president in the first power who is closer to leaders such as Orbán or Salvini than to European construction. In short, we think that Spain is coming with great challenges, but also this group considers that we are at the door of a time of hope. We believe that in a hundred days Spain has regained prominence in Europe. Foreign policy has been intense: you have met with your counterparts, with neighbouring countries, also with key actors; President Sánchez has been with the European leaders, he has made visits to Latin America and, as I said earlier, this government has put on the table the crisis over the Mediterranean while others who call themselves government parties have given support to anti-European projects last week. Therefore, one hundred days in which Spain counts, in which it counts in the world and, as Minister Ordóñez said, Spain is again on the map. That is why we are asking you, these days of the summit, what will Spain's priorities be at the next UN ministerial week to be held next week in New York? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u57	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u58	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question on a very topical subject which will take place next week in New York. This is an opportunity for Spain to renew its commitment to active and effective multilateralism, questioned by President Trump, and that multilateralism passes fundamentally through the United Nations. The President of the Government, of course, will preside over the Spanish delegation to this General Assembly, which will have three fundamental axes. First, attention to the dignity of individuals and rights. Spain has become a world leader in the agenda of women, peace and security. We have also been the promoters of resolutions on access and health protection in conflict situations, on access to water as a fundamental human right. I would therefore like to stress the will to promote, together with our European partners, the negotiation of two major global pacts on refugees, on safe, orderly and regular migration. The second line of our action is attention to people's security and conflict prevention. President Zapatero has already pushed this forward in his day and we will continue our very important participation in peacekeeping operations. I would like to remind you that Spain is the first contributor in terms of number of troops to the European Union's civilian and military missions, something we should be satisfied with; we are the first country to contribute in terms of troops to the Union's civilian and military missions. The third axis is the focus on human-centred sustainable development, the objectives of the 2030 Agenda; you know that we have created a special Commissioner for this and the impetus for international cooperation as one of the priority objectives of that master plan. Finally, let me say that we want to start a reflection to institutionally strengthen the United Nations on the occasion of its 75th anniversary. As you can see, we have a long and committed agenda with the international community, defending our values, which we will promote within the framework of the defence of multilateralism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u59	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO GUTIERREZ LIMONES, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE RECENT DISCUSSION ON THE STATE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION DUE BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, JEAN CLAUDE JUNCKER? [[File number 180/000716]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u60	Question, also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, by Mr Antonio Gutiérrez Limones of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u61	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the President of the Government has repeatedly expressed that the European project is at the heart of his government action. It is no wonder that even his ministry is called foreign, European Union and Cooperation. Spain is today the country of reference of the countries of southern Europe and is also, together with Germany and France, the central axis of the construction of the new Europe. But also, as we were reminded yesterday, the European Union is experiencing an existential crisis. On the one hand, a social crisis that comes from the economic and financial crisis of the biennium 2008-2009 and the austerity measures that were adopted; but, above all, an identity crisis, a crisis that is based on the emergence of extremism, xenophobic and exclusionary nationalisms, populisms. As you well know, Minister, populisms never have a happy ending, they always start the same. Populisms begin with a great farce, a great lie and end equally: in a disaster, they even end in tragedy. There are some examples in last century Europe. That is why it is no exaggeration to say, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe is once again facing fascism. That is why I believe that we cannot waste time, it is no longer a question of seeking or clarifying the difference between the European project of the right, of the left, of social democracy and of Christian democracy. What is at stake is to make a common front against populism based on the founding values of the European Union: peace, democracy and freedoms; that is precisely what is at stake. In addition, important, complex and difficult decisions will have to be taken this autumn-winter to deal with the spring of elections that are going to be the first truly European elections, because passive consensus is no longer enough, it is now about taking sides; taking sides if we want open and free societies or we want to live in closed societies. Ladies and gentlemen, we were fortunate enough to live at a stage where we made decisions based solely on values and on the transformations of principles and ideas, so Mr Juncker's speech last week leads us to ask him his assessment of the measures he proposed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u62	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u63	Thank you very much, honourable Member. In general terms, we very much agree with the speech delivered in Strasbourg by the President of the European Commission, and that I had the opportunity to listen live from the rostrum of the European Council. It is positive because the President of the Commission points to the idea of European sovereignty, as President Macron and our President of the Government have also done, a European sovereignty which is nothing more than the result of putting national sovereignty together in order to meet the major transnational challenges such as climate change, migration or inequality. President Juncher also mentioned the creation and strengthening of the Coast Guard, the Frontex Agency, the return directive to improve Union policies in this area; and these initiatives are being supported in some cases and studied in others by the Government. He called for the completion of the banking union, the economic and monetary union, everything in line with the Government's proposal and, therefore, we can only be very pleased that the President of the Commission has taken them up in his speech. We also support your proposals for technology giants to pay taxes where they generate their profits, we support the adoption of the multiannual financial framework before the next European elections according to our priorities, and what Mr Juncker said does not make us fear that they will be far removed from them. We support permanent structured cooperation and a European defence fund; together with France and Germany in the pending negotiations of the Pesco we have the same position. We particularly support the proposal for a partnership between Europe and Africa and, by the way, I was drawn to the attention that President Juncker announced the creation of 100 000 Erasmus grants for young Africans. [[Rumors]] When I said a few days ago that this could be a form of cooperation between Europe and Africa, the African Erasmus, not a few sceptical smiles arose, when no ironic hoaxes, and here it is that a few days later Mr Juncker - I do not mean that he would have taken my idea, I am sure that it had occurred to him before - proposes 100,000 Erasmus for Africa. So... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL MARIA JESUS BONILLA DOMINGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DO YOU STILL KEEP THAT THE DEFENCE OF THE LLARENA GAME IS A PRIVATE MATTER? [[File number 180/000719]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u65	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. First of all, a question from Mrs María Jesús Bonilla Domínguez of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you still maintain that the defense of Judge Llarena is a private matter? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead. And silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Bonilla. What this government is doing is defending Spanish jurisdictional sovereignty and that is what we are maintaining and doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bonilla, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the facts are compelling, from July 10 to August 30 you did nothing to defend neither sovereignty nor Judge Llarena. You appeared on September 11, last week, in Congress and in the Senate. In the morning you maintained that you had defended Spanish jurisdiction as well as Judge Llarena. In the afternoon in the Senate you maintained that you had defended the jurisdiction, but that having personified in defense of Judge Llarena for possible private statements would have entailed the loss of jurisdictional immunity and also assumed the jurisdiction of the Belgian court. Minister, I think you're confusing the public with the private. The president of the government travels to Falcon to a concert. We ask you how much it costs the Spaniards and they say it's state secret and yet you question Judge Llarena's defense for understanding it's private. Minister, they question precisely a magistrate that what he is doing is defending legality, the rule of law, the unity of Spain and, ultimately, all Spanish citizens. They immediately said what it cost to defend Judge Llarena, but to defend Judge Llarena is to defend Spain and our sovereignty. Madam Minister, I understand that you are in a government where, for starters, the President has not been elected by the citizens. I understand that you are in a government mortgaged by your populist, independent and pro-estate partners, who are paying you permanent assignments that are detrimental to the interests of Spanish citizens. I understand that he is in a government that has already lost two ministers to possible frauds and that the president of the government has to give many explanations for a possible fraud also in his doctoral thesis. By the way, you will also have to explain the issue of the National Court. Minister, we have to take responsibility. You have allowed our judges to be humiliated, you have not defended Spanish sovereignty or jurisdiction, and you have also lied in Parliament. You've lost credibility. You are in an unsustainable situation and you must resign and you must resign as soon as possible for the sake of your party and your Government. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u71	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Bonilla, you can repeat that argument one and a thousand times. On the 11th of this month, I explained in detail and detail what this Government is doing in a responsible, transparent, technical and professional way, no less than defending something that is essential for Spain, which is its sovereignty of jurisdiction. In this sovereignty and in this defense of jurisdiction is the defense of Judge Llarena, because in this case it is indissoluble. And allow me not to answer any questions that may call into question or jeopardize the defence of jurisdiction, Spanish jurisdictional sovereignty and immunity from jurisdiction. This Government has been working since 10 July with absolute rigour in defending the sovereignty of Spanish jurisdiction. You can say whatever you want. Ask for an explanation from Mrs Moro, who was at the hearing that was made with all the arguments, with all the reports and with all the technical rigour. [[Rumors]] Mrs Bonilla, it is a coincidence that this Government has a responsibility which it exercises without specific political or party interests; a responsibility which is above those interests and which is the defence of the interests of the State. Mrs Bonilla, that's what Pedro Sánchez's government has done, that's what we're doing and that's what we're still working on. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA JESUS MORO ALMARAZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA USED FOR THE SELECTION OF THE COMMITTEE OF EXPERTS TO RECOGNIZE UNIVERSAL JUSTICE? [[File number 180/000720]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u73	Question, also addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mrs María Jesús Moro Almaraz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what have been the criteria for electing experts from the universal justice commission?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u75	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moro, there have been basically two: technical capacity and personal and professional experience in universal justice and universal jurisdiction. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u77	Quiet. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Moro, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u78	Madam Minister, it is clear that there is capacity, that there is competence and that they are experts, but I think you have slightly diverted the shot, because you do not have to choose those with whom they take photographs in hunts or with whom they meet in secret or with whom they share dubious events. Your Honor, Spain does not deserve a Minister of Justice who does not care about justice, a minister who seems to be the visible hand of a shadow that plans in the Ministry of Justice; a shadow that places its pawns, who boldly gives instructions from the press forums and who seems to have come more to give way to vendettas than to implement policies to improve justice. The criteria you have used in this advisory council are neither feminists nor equals. Your Honor, there is not a single woman and there are very good ones; you know that. The names of the experts are De Prada, Ollé, Vergara, Hormazábal and the one who is not but is: Garzón. It is not objective, exemplary or rigorous to incorporate judges who intervene in certain proceedings; who seem to share information from judgements before they are handed down; who deal with matters outside the summary or who publicly require that they be included in other matters and in other proceedings; or, those who make the matter of universal jurisdiction their own benefit. I'll tell you what your real criteria have been. It prefers those who defend attackers of civilian guards in Alsasua and friends who bring us back to hunts and non-professional meetings but who conclude in professional decisions. You presumed a week ago not to be in any summary as D., but today we are shocked, minister, with your investigation into Operation Tandem, in which you may appear mentioned with the appeal of 'Dos'. We were worried when we knew his appointment, we were worried when he marked his government priorities and were not those of justice, we continued to worry when he left Congress and ruled on private committees and today we were shocked by this sad news. You will also have to explain why you and your Government use victims and judges, using the Organic Judiciary Act. Justice... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u79	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moro, I'm going to give you some data on the resume of the people selected to talk about something that surely sounds very rare to you, which is universal jurisdiction, the defence of human rights, because you just ended it. I repeat, I will give you some data. First of all, Mr. Ollé is a Doctor of Law, a Professor of Complutense University, a Professor of Criminal Law at various universities, national and foreign, a member and head of various international missions related to human rights and the prosecution of international crimes, a lawyer before international courts and institutions by the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights or the African Commission on Human Rights, for example. He is the author of books, essays, etc., but surely they do not sound to him because they speak only of justice and universal jurisdiction. Mr. De Prada has been a judge for twenty-eight years at the National Court. Since 2012, he has been an international judge of the Residual Mechanism for International Ad Hoc Tribunals. Since 2014 it has been the contact point of the European Union Network on Genocide... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u81	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u82	...crimes against humanity and war crimes. He is currently a member of the International Criminal Tribunal in the Appeals Chamber of the Radovan Karadzic case. Between 2005 and 2008 he was an international judge of the War Crimes Appeals Chamber of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I could keep giving you data about the rest of the experts, but I don't want to spend my time without saying anything. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u84	This government is going to seek consensus to regain a fundamental tool for international judicial cooperation, so that there is no room for impunity against genocide, drug traffickers or terrorists, that you, lords of the People's Party, is what in 2014... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u85	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ALICIA RAMOS JORDÁN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM WE CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES WILL THE GOVERNMENT IMPLEMENT TO GUARANTEE PARITY IN THE BODIES OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE? [[File number 180/00707]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u86	Question, also addressed to the Minister of Justice, Ms. Alicia Ramos Jordan, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u87	Thank you, President. Minister, what steps will your Government take to ensure parity in the bodies of the Administration of Justice?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u88	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Ramos. It is true that there is a parity in justice at the base, what we do not have is that parity in the high positions of responsibility of the mime, and what this Government intends to do is to try to remove those obstacles that make women not able to have that parity even above.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u91	We need to move from words to facts, because, really, do you see this picture? [[Show different pictures]] This photo is from the opening of the judicial year a few days ago. It might seem an exceptional thing, but do you see this other one? This is almost the same, identical, from a year ago. And this one? From 2006. He could present several photos and we will see that the reality is always the same, that has not changed all this time, and it is a reality that has been criticized from the UN to the Observatory against Gender Violence of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, as well as by the associations of judges for democracy. This indicates that it is a reality that does not respond to the feminization of justice, not even to a mere basic principle of equality. As she knows as much as she knows as a woman as a prosecutor, this lack of women in the bodies responsible for the administration of justice shows tragically that while women are more than 50 per cent in the judiciary of the State, their bodies of responsibility disappear. Minister, these images are particularly harsh and painful in this year of 2018, when millions of women have gone to the streets to say that this justice and that these laws leave us unprotected. The year of judgments such as La Manada, of judgments such as that of Juana Rivas; the year - all to be said in passing - in which judicial independence and its adaptation to the needs of society have not only been questioned regarding women's rights and their sexual freedom, but also and certainly in Catalonia. Minister, what message do you think sends this image to 82% of the population that supports feminist demands? What image of justice are we giving to citizens when we tell them that there are no women in their bodies of responsibility? We understand that you have not been a minister for the past three years and have not had the responsibility, but now you have. Now you have a responsibility to change this situation. You have to tell us what you're going to do to change this reality. And if you don't have any proposals, please let us do it. They support our initiatives; they support the immediate modification of the General Codification Commission; they renew the Equality Act, an Equality Act of a decade ago that we believe no longer responds to social reality. If the PSOE government is really a government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u92	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Ramos. I think we agreed on the diagnosis. That picture you've taught almost is the reflection of the glass ceiling with which we meet many women in the world of justice. I am not going to the figures - some of them you have given - but we can talk about 53% of women in the judicial career, 64% in the fiscal career or 66% in the lawyers of the Administration of Justice and just 18% or 21% - a little more - in lawyers who reach certain positions. It is true that in certain promotions that are regulated that parity we will find it gradually, as women go up simply by rule. The problem is when we find discretionary positions, where curricula are taken into account. This is the real problem, because in women's resumes there are sometimes gaps; they are the gaps of motherhood and now there are also gaps, which are the gaps of when we attend to our elders. That is also another aspect to be taken into account. When assessing these curricula, we need to have a gender perspective and value as merit the fact that we have been a mother or care for, for example, our elders. This is a gender perspective that we want to include when assessing these curricula. Besides, and I think it's an important issue, it's us, the women, who can determine what are the obstacles to breaking that glass roof. Therefore, from the Ministry of Justice we will create an observatory to determine exactly how to improve these parity criteria at the time, for example, of evaluating these curricula. We are, of course, on the same line in trying to get the women we are at the base to achieve that high responsibility in Justice. And it's true, that photograph is a reflection of the glass ceiling. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Melisa Rodrigez Hernandez, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND EQUALITY: WHAT OPINION DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE REGARDING THE SHARE OF CUSTODY? [[File number 180/00710]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u94	She also asked the Minister of Justice of Mrs Melisa Rodríguez Hernández of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u95	Madam Minister, this question was addressed to the Vice-President, but she has evaded it. What do you think of shared custody and custody, the need to make national legislation and, above all, not to delve further into inequality between autonomous communities, which is what it does to deprive children of their rights according to the autonomous community? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u96	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. For this Government the fundamental thing is the defence of the best interests of the child, of course. We understand that absolute positions cannot be maintained, but we must stick to each specific case, precisely in the interests of the child. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u99	Nobody has talked about absolute truths here, they have talked about equal rights, and equal rights are also manifested in the right of children to enjoy their parents. And if not, ask many of the comrades on your bench who have shared custody even if they do not defend it politically. The European Charter of the Rights of the Child says that parents have an obligation to share their duties and responsibility for their education. The Supreme Court has ruled that it is the normal and even desirable formula. We are here to talk about the best good of the child and that is why we believe that it is the judges who decide the suitability and not a specific government that does not want to make national legislation. The lack of national legislation has made children's rights in a self-governing community helpless. There are autonomous communities that have wanted to fill this gap by making their own regulations and that is why we are seeing, for example, that children in Catalonia have more rights than children in Extremadura, 40% of shared custody given in Catalonia compared to 8% in Extremadura, that is, children's rights vary according to the autonomous community. Some of your deputies have spoken of co-responsibility. For us equality is co-responsibility, it is equality between men and women, but above all it is not to deprive children of their rights. We have said this over and over again, however, they always bias and talk about ad hoc cases when it is the judges who have to analyse such ad hoc cases. I tell you that we do not want them to respect you, because you have used a state pact against macho violence to get in the back door and get stuck under the heat of Moncloa's curtains instead of following the usual procedure. It is a further sign of his Government's weakness, but from here I say to him that in the coming days we will present a national law on shared custody, not to enter politics but to defend the rights of all children in this country. We hope that they will not be left out; we hope that if they talk about equality, they will talk about real equality, that they will follow what Europe says and, above all, that they will not continue to ignore the majority of children in this country, because the problem that adults do not know how to solve does not have to be suffered by children. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u100	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. The regime we have and that provided for in article 92 of the Civil Code is one that provides for different situations that may occur, that is clear. The ideal? For there is an agreement between parents to share that custody of the creatures, but as long as it is best for the creatures, the best interests of the boys and girls, and that there is also control by the judicial authority. The normal thing, Mrs Rodríguez, is that there is no such agreement in situations of family conflict; then, we understand that every situation and every case is the concrete one. The court has to provide the judge as an arbitrator and resolve with all the tools that the law gives him. In any event, the Supreme Court does not mention that shared custody is of a preferential nature. What he's telling us is that it would be the desirable situation, and we all think exactly that way. However, this may not be the case, and what must be taken into account always and above all other considerations is the best interests of the child. That is what concerns us and we think that the general regime is the one that best respects it, Mrs Rodriguez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u102	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GOVERNMENT OF THE BLACK TARNO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, THAT FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: IS THE MINISTER CONSCIOUS THAT ONLY AGREES WHEN CORRECTIVE? [[File number 180/000721]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u103	Question now addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Ricardo Tarno Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you aware that you are only right when you are wrong when you correct? [[Laughs.- Rumors.- A honourable Member: Cold, cold!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr Tarno, in the three months I have been at the head of the Ministry of Defence, all I have had to do is correct the omissions, the inaccuracies, the delays, the secret contract clauses that my predecessors had left behind, I suppose one more interested in their business career and another interested in reaching the presidency of the People's Party. But I will tell you one thing: at no time will you have heard from me a single public criticism of my predecessors. Because I think when we talk about the Ministry of Defence, when we talk about security policies, we have to have a sense of state, and I ask that sense of state from you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u107	Mr. Tarno. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u108	Madam President. That's why, because it's a state ministry, you shouldn't be there, because you're putting the state at risk. Look, you filtered two weeks ago that a 400-bomb precision contract was cancelled to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. He was not aware of the damage he was doing to his Government and Spain. His decision has jeopardized the purchase of five corvettes by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia worth €1800 million and 6,000 jobs in the Bay of Cadiz. You said in the Senate that the government had no record, beyond some curse - I imagine it was referring to the president of the Board, who was the first to give the word to all this - that no contract to be made in Cadiz was linked to any other contract. Days later, Mr. Borrell - who has just left - said that Saudi Arabia considers commercial relations as a whole, as a whole; the contract had to be fulfilled. Therefore, either the contract was fulfilled or there were no ties for Navantia. Who's lying, Mrs. Robles, you or Mr. Borrell? It looks like it's you. In all this guirigay we already know that the bombs are of high precision, thanks to the magnificent explanation of Mrs Celaá. The bombs are very different from you, because the bombs seem to be intelligent and you have lacked intelligence in this performance. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u109	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u110	Maybe you should install the laser from the bombs so you don't keep making mistakes. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u111	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u112	You tried to cancel a contract that is absolutely legal, that complies with the law, only for political and ideological reasons, and the president of the government said the other day: The minister did not know the consequences of paralyzing the contracts with Saudi Arabia and, by the way, I had to act to fix it. Madam, you have neither the confidence of your group - which has never trusted you - nor the confidence of the President of the Government nor the confidence of the party. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] What are you doing as Minister of Defense? Go, for your sake and for that of Spain. Dismiss; it's the best thing you can do to all the Spaniards. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u113	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u114	Thank you, Madam President. You're not going to give me lessons from anything or your group either. You know why? Because you, who are so concerned about the interests of the workers, I ask if you know what the previous government, of your party, did. He had on stand by - we do not know why -, as a result of a series of mistakes, a submarine, the S-80, and as a result of that delay, all the Spanish citizens we have had to pay 18 billion euros. Does that ring a bell? $1.8 billion. [[A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] And I had to go to Cartagena to solve the problem, because precisely the workers of Navantia, those who care so much about you, were very angry because your Government had not been able to solve the technical problems. [[rumors]] And explain to the workers of Navantia in Ferrol what's going on, why frigates F-110 are paralyzed. Perhaps, because there is some missile - you know - of some business interests - you know - that have made the project paralyzed. Even Mr Feijóo himself has had to ask the President, Mr Sánchez, to speed this up because Navantia's jobs in Ferrol are at stake. So, please, lessons, none, because as a result of their performance the Spanish citizens are having to pay a lot of money to fill their omissions and so that they can have work Navantia Ferrol and Cartagena. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u115	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA ANGELES ESTELLER RUEDAS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, FORMING THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: DO YOU THINK THE POLITICAL SITUATION OF CATALUNE IS AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL STABILITY OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/000722]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u116	Questions to the Minister of Finance. First of all, a question from Mrs María Ángeles Esteller Ruedas of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the independence process is a bad business for Catalonia. Catalonia has always been the economic locomotive of Spain. However, the independence process is having a high cost to the Catalan economy, which has lost leadership. There are more than 4000 companies that have left Catalonia, it is the investments and tourists that have stopped coming, but, above all, it is the jobs that are destroyed in Catalonia. In August one of the three jobs that were destroyed in Spain was in Catalonia. In this context, do you consider that the political situation in Catalonia is affecting the financial stability of Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u118	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u119	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Esteller, the financial stability of Spain is assured as long as all the territorial administrations - Government of Spain, governments of the municipalities and the autonomous communities - are committed to the financial stability of this country. In addition, this government is making a reality exercise, in order to accommodate the stability path for 2018 with the budget figure and, therefore, to prevent an additional EUR 11 billion from being cut if we fail to approve that path as this Parliament has proposed. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, being able to return rights to citizens is not wasteful, it is not wasting public money, it is the obligation of any decent government that wants economic recovery to reach families and, above all, those who have suffered the most. Of course, the situation in Catalonia is very important for the entire national context and, of course, for this autonomous community, and that is why this Government is not going to tire of working and dialogue so that the situation in Catalonia can effectively end this conflict. In fact, a bilateral meeting - which had not been held for seven years - had been held in order to continue to move forward jointly with the State and Catalonia. Meetings are taking place between advisers and ministers in order to normalise the situation of institutional relations; in fact, I can tell you that the Autonomous Financing Commission, the first political meeting before the end of September, will be convened, and the Government of the Generalitat has appointed a person to speak in this multilateral forum about autonomous financing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Esteller, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u121	Minister, don't be fooled. We are facing a challenge with serious economic consequences. 155 made it possible to restore some normality by restoring the constitutional order. Tensions were lowered and the economic pulse recovered because the process stopped. However, you are now in the hands of the independenceists, your political weakness translates into economic instability and more when you began by yielding to your blackmail by withdrawing the intervention of the accounts of the Generalitat and you continue with a dialogue that continues to be a monologue of Mr Torra, that what you are doing is prolonging the instability and uncertainty that so much damages the economy. That is why, Minister, I ask you to intervene again in the finances of the Generalitat, not to use public money to finance the independence process, to use Catalonia's public money to go to the real economy and also to provide public services. With this, it would offer security, solvency and confidence to generate more and better jobs. Madam Minister, let us hope that the debts of Torra and Rufián will cease to be a heavy slab for the shoulders of the Spaniards. I ask you not to be the Minister of Finance that Mr Torra wants, but to be the Minister of Finance that defends the interests of all Spaniards. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u122	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u123	Thank you very much, President. I believe that today you have again shown the lies that you usually shed on the situation of any political issue in this country, today in particular in Catalonia, because it is a lie that the reinforced control that the public accounts of the Generalitat have has been withdrawn. Look at you, this government and this supporting party have always practiced a state policy when you ruled, which you do not do in the opposition. We support the implementation of 155 at that time, just as we did when it was decided to withdraw it by the previous Government. I would therefore like you to act accordingly, to give way to dialogue, to stop facing Spaniards and to stop facing the territories. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u124	Thank you very much. - OF THE MIGUEL ANGEL PANIGUA NÚÑEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHY DO YOU SUPPORT THAT THE DEFICIT OBJECTIVE FOR 2018 CANNOT BE COMPLETED? [[File number 180/00723]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u125	Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Paniagua Núñez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Let's compare two comparable budgets: 2017 and 2018. Similar years, equivalent execution times, made both by the People's Party and with the same support. In 2017, the AIReF told us that it was feasible but demanding and the European Commission considered that it was not going to be met by 4 or 5 tenths. In 2018, the AIReF says again that it is feasible but very tight and the European Commission considers it the same as for 2017. But there are two differences: the first, that in 2018 they were executed by the People's Party and in 2018 the PSOE will do it; the second, that in 2017 the deficit target was met and in 2018 its government raises from the beginning its non-compliance by 6 tenths. That is why I ask you, Minister: Why do you argue that the deficit target for 2018 cannot be met? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u127	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u128	Thank you very much, President. I do not say that, Mr Paniagua, the AIReF, as you rightly say, has said in its report that the stability target set by the previous government at 2.2% is not going to be met. This was said by the Banco de España, when it analysed the public accounts in the macroeconomic situation report, and supported by the European Commission in the stability plan submitted by Spain in May, where it reported that the deficit would hardly decrease by 2,6 %. This Government has therefore done a responsible task. With this reality, it has been able, together with the European Commission, to make these conditions more flexible, and I hope that this Parliament will finally be able to give it its approval. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, the figures on the budget say so. He won't have heard me snooping about the lies that the 2018 budget contained, but, as you ask me, I'm going to tell him today. There are EUR 5480 million which are not covered well by the revenue route or by the expenditure route. And you know exactly what did not have a budget allocation? It did not have the capacity to raise pensions, it did not have extrapenisular transport in the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands and it did not have gender-based violence policies. If with that data you still consider that Spain could meet the deficit target, it would be at the expense of sacrificing those policies that go to the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Paniagua.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u130	Thank you, President. That's not true, Minister. The difference is the commitment to the future of Spain that the People's Party government had and the commitment to winning the next elections of the Socialist Party government. That's the real difference. In 2017, the deficit was reduced by 1.2 points; in 2018, only 0.9 points were requested. It's a lot easier. By the middle of the year almost five tenths, half the way, have already been reduced. If you close on 2.9, not only will you not reduce in the second half but you will widen the deficit. In addition, revenues go very well, 8.3% growth in collection, as you recognized yesterday. They have no excuses. But you have a clear objective, to finish the legislature, and for this you need budgets where you increase the expected deficit on the current stability path and where you increase the public debt, and you are able to use any scam, as we saw yesterday, so that you can water with public money the whole country to ensure victory in the next elections. All this will put the future of the Spaniards at risk, contrary to what Minister Calviño said a few days ago, who was talking about intergenerational justice so as not to increase the bill that we will leave our children and grandchildren. Well, now it looks like they don't care about this. And it's even worse, there may be a new crisis in the coming years and we must be prepared, take advantage of these years of goodness, not spoil growth, reduce deficit and public debt as much as possible. Otherwise, we will not be able to do what we did in the previous crisis - to cover with deficit the lack of income - because we will not have capacity. You put the welfare state, the future of Spain and the Spanish at risk, the same as you did in Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's years of government. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u131	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u132	Thank you very much, President. Mr Paniagua, we are not going to receive lessons from the People's Party in terms of meeting the objective of stability, because you have never met it, at the expense of municipalities and autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] It's the truth and it's there so you can consult it whenever you want. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever any government raises an increase in public expenditure accompanied by growth or fiscal capacity, you call it wasteful. Is it wasteful to revitalize health? Is it wasteful to update pensions? Is it a waste that public school is a quality school? All these expenses for you are wasteful; for this government, no, for this government it is called social justice, which is the ability to give back to the citizens the effort they have made during this time of crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are not able to get citizens to perceive... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u133	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JAVIER SÁNCHEZ SERNA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN IN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF SCIENCE, INNOVATION AND UNIVERSITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RETURN TO THE THOUSANDS OF STUDENTS DEBITTED BY THE LOANS? [[File number 180/000712]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u134	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Science, Innovation and Universities. Question by Mr Javier Sánchez Serna, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u135	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. In 2007, the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero launched the so-called Renta University loans to finance master's and doctoral studies. In the context of the Bologna process, these loans were used to displace traditional grants on the basis of socio-economic criteria and opened the door to banks as managers of such aid. In the first call the conditions were certainly favorable: there was no interest and the students only had to start returning these loans from an income of 22 000 euros per year. However, in the following calls the conditions changed substantially: interest was fixed and the income threshold was removed. What was announced as study aid turned out to be more like a bank credit The worst, however, was the null supervision by the Ministry of Education, which allowed the banks not to report changes in conditions and even some to offer them under misleading conditions. Currently, and although the program ended in 2012, there are more than 5,000 students in debt who cannot face payments and who are also being chased by banks, banks, by the way, who, despite managing public money, ICO money, are demanding deorbited interest from borrowers and threatening to take their data to late lists. For all this, Unido Podemos presented a proposal to restore the original terms of the rent loans, curb bank abuse and rescue the thousands of indebted students. This proposal went ahead with the support of the Socialist Group and other groups in the House, but it was never implemented by the People's Party Government. That is why, Minister, we are asking you today whether this government is going to comply with the proposal approved in the Education Committee and whether it is going to rescue once and for all the thousands of people affected by university mortgages. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u136	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u137	Thank you very much, President. We do have to see innovation in these microphones, don't we? Mr. Sanchez, my answer is yes. This Government will resolve the situation of the thousands of students affected by Renta University loans, and we have put ourselves on it several weeks ago. I will not quote you again what the conditions are, because you have made them quite clearly and I agree with the statement you have made. For thousands of Spanish university students this program was of great help - we have to say this too - yet many students have faced serious difficulties, as you said, by having to repay the loan without having the resources to do so. Mr Sánchez, of course we are also working on the text of the non-legislative proposal that was adopted in this House at the request of your group. We're very aware of it. The most important thing to say is that we are going to reverse the trend. On the one hand, we will meet shortly with the representatives of the Association of Affected by the Renta University Loans, as they have requested. We already have the necessary data and possible options prepared. On the other hand, we have started contacting the Official Credit Institute to find a solution that is viable and just for all concerned. In short, this ministry understands the demands of those affected and will listen to them in order to achieve a just solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Sánchez Serna, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u139	Minister, we appreciate these commitments, but we are concerned that the model of a public university is not clear. We say this to him because a few days ago we knew that his ministry and the Santander Bank had agreed to the creation of a new Erasmus fellowship programme of excellence. In our view, it is somewhat contradictory that while the Ministry of Education is considering recovering the scholarships as a subjective right, from its ministry the scholarships of excellence of the People's Party will be reissued and, in addition, its management will be defended by the private bank. We think that betting on the public university has to go by reinforcing the scholarships of a general nature, not by handing them over to the banks... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u141	Thank you, President. The Government is clear that the policy of public scholarships needs to be strengthened. Public education is the one that needs to be enhanced since the Government's action and it is clear that it will be one of the most important actions we will take in the future. With regard to the additional money of private entities as a supplement, we do not find it wrong to admit it, provided that it does not come with conditions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL YOLANDA Díaz Perez of the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European United States of America (CGE) can, in common, be called upon to provide the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security with the following information: Is the Government committed to ensuring the re-evaluation of the pensions in the performance of the Royal CPI by law? [[File number 180/000714]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u143	Question to the Minister for Labour, Migration and Social Security. Question by Mrs Yolanda Díaz Pérez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u144	Good morning, President. Minister, the question is very simple and we ask you for clarity: Are you going to revalue pensions according to the CPI by law? Yes or no? Or are we going to continue with Article 58 and 0.25 % of the People's Party? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u145	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u146	Thank you, President. I must make it clear to you that this Government is fully committed to maintaining the purchasing power of pensions in order to ensure the economic sufficiency provided for in Article 50 of the Spanish Constitution, of course within the framework of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and the Social Dialogue Bureau. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u148	First of all, I wish to greet the pensioners who are accompanying us here in the rostrum and also at the door of Congress, who are struggling to defend our pensions. [[applause]] Minister, I told her it's very easy: yes or no by law. Our group, as you know, has reached a budgetary agreement with the Socialist Party to revalue pensions with the CPI this year and next year. But this is not the case, our pensioners do not deserve this; they do not deserve a pact in their day with the PP and now with the Confederal Group. What they deserve is one more step, what they deserve is the right to revalue pensions by law, and you know, like me, that this is precisely the mechanism designed to prevent the impoverishment of our pensioners, is precisely designed for this. Minister, let us be clear, the pensioners, the Social Security have not been the ones who caused the crisis in our country; they have just been the ones who cushioned the crisis; the ones who caused the crisis have been those bankers whom the Socialist Party now refuses to tax. [[applause]] Those are the causes of the crisis. Minister, take the pensioners' side. Abandon doubts; let us be clear, it is not recommendation 2 in the Toledo Pact, it is not an agreement with us; it is a guarantee by law. And, minister, to stand on the side of the pensioners we make four proposals in which they will count on the Confederal Group: First proposal, let us repeal the labor reforms. You know as I do, it is not possible to have decent pensions with conditions of misery, with the precariousness of labor reforms. [[Applauds]] Secondly, the interprofessional minimum wage must be raised. It's basic, minister. The impact on the collection of contributions is brutal. Thirdly, let us be brave, let us repeal the factor of sustainability, of impoverishment, as Irene Montero says. And fourth, let's be braver, minister. Let's get our hands on the bank, stop taxing private pension plans. In these four agreements he will count on us, on the Confederal Group and, above all, on the people who are going out again today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u149	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díaz, thank you very much for giving me this advice to defend the public pension system. I want to clarify that I have been defending him for several decades, I believe in him since 1986, when I started teaching on this issue. [[applause]] I would therefore like to make it clear to you that the Government is going to respect the methodology we have given ourselves: the Toledo Pact and social dialogue, and I hope that your group - I am convinced; you represent your group in the Toledo Pact - will put the recommendations of that new Toledo Pact that you know is being renewed as soon as possible, because the latest ones are from 2011. Of course, in that recommendation 2 I am convinced that the guarantee of the purchasing power of pensions will be agreed. At the Social Dialogue Bureau there is a group set up specifically for Social Security and in particular to look at the public pension system and propose measures for its financial, social, legal and political sustainability, all of which are fundamental. Do not ask this Government to unilaterally make a law as it did the previous one. [[Applauds]] Unilateral laws have not resulted in any results in the public pension system. A law will be brought, of course, but according to the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and in accordance with the dialogue at the Social Dialogue Bureau, which I know some of you do not like. So I want to make it clear that we are going to defend the public system, a system of solidarity between generations, and what we have to do - that is what I ask your group and yourself - is to convey confidence, certainty and hope in this public pension system and not to introduce the seed of doubt, because that only interests those who have private purposes to cut off in relation to the uncertainties we introduce from the public system. It doesn't fit you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MRS ISABEL MARIA BORREGO CORTÉS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW JUSTIFYES THE WITHDRAWAL OF RESOURCES TO THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT? [[File number 180/000725]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u152	She is now asking the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mrs Isabel María Borrego Cortés, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u153	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, we have been hearing for a hundred days that unconstitutionality resources will be withdrawn and we hear it from the government and its independent partners. That is why I ask you: how does the withdrawal of unconstitutionality resources justify?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u154	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u155	Thank you, President. Mrs Borrego, withdrawals are a common practice of all governments and also a repeated request by the Constitutional Court itself. This Government gives up its remedies before the Constitutional Court because the following three reasons are given: firstly, because the Constitutional Court has already resolved similar cases and there is a case law that supports it; secondly, that the rules are contested because they contradict basic State legislation that has been amended; and thirdly, that the Autonomous Government formally undertakes to amend the law in order to bring it fully into line with constitutionality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borrego, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u157	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, Spain is one of the countries with the highest degree of political decentralization and we have established a distribution, as you well know, of competences between the State and the autonomous community and we both legislated in accordance with the constitutional framework and in accordance with those competences. The remedy of unconstitutionality is one of the constitutional guarantees for the law to be within the constitutional framework, this remedy that the State and autonomous communities constantly resort to. The Catalan Generalitat has often, countless times, although you seem to be obviating that circumstance or concealing it, lodged more resources even than the President of the Government has lodged against Catalan rules. But resources should not be taken as an aggravation, no one should take them as such, as some are committed to selling; they stand in the way of content not for political reasons. That is why their withdrawal must also be justified by the content and not by political reasons, as it seems that we are listening for these 100 days and we have heard since early July after President Torra's meeting with President Sánchez. When you announce that you are going to withdraw remedies it is because you are convinced that these rules are unconstitutional, if you would not wait for those sentences. Why don't you wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling? If you are sure that these rules are constitutional, wait for those rulings that will clarify the circumstances. You know, Minister, that the rules are unconstitutional and that is why you acted recklessly in the withdrawal of the unconstitutionality appeal against the Basque Law 12/2016, when five days before the Constitutional Court had handed down judgment that considered several of these articles to be unconstitutional, and even against the Navarra law, which is of similar content to the Basque Law. Not that I say it, it is that its governing partners, both in the parliamentary and in the press, have said that they want those unconstitutional resources to be withdrawn. They've been blackmailed, they've asked those resources... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u158	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u159	Thank you, President. Madam Member, withdrawals are not an invention of this government, they are covered by law and have occurred 391 before this socialist government came to power. When Mr. Rajoy gave up twenty resources he sold Spain, was he subject to blackmail or was it a political price? When Mr. Aznar gave up sixty resources was blackmail, was it paid a political price? No, honourable Member, it was a common practice of all the governments of Spain. Madam Member, let there be a political agreement, that an autonomous community should agree to amend an approved law to adapt it to the constitutional sphere is good news, which is exactly what happened to Basque law. That Spain now has a government that dialogues, that bets on cohabitation, that does not cuddle, that what it does precisely is to prioritize agreements within the constitutional framework is good news. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I ask you to stop presenting the normal performance, which you practiced until three months ago, when you were in the government, as exceptional, as turbulent, as a political price or a political sale made by this government. The opposition must also be responsible, Madam Member, and make allusions or phrases that you know perfectly well are false damage to the institutionality of this country and to the democratic system itself. What they do is to destroy confidence, and precisely what we are fatal about is confidence, because after seven years of their government we are at a low level. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHY DO THE GOVERNMENT ATTACK THE FREEDOM OF FAMILY TO CHECK THE EDUCATION THAT THEY WANT FOR YOUR CHILDREN? [[File number 180/000724]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u160	Questions to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u161	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Celaá, we already know from your press conference last Friday that you are an expert in bombs and armaments, but I have to say that your educational policy is not at all of high precision. You are wrong to attack the freedom of families to decide the education they want for your children, you are wrong to attack the concerted. And I say he's wrong because I don't know if he's realized that his government is more and more like Big Brother. And I'm not just saying this because of the trouble that happens week after week, but because every month there's a resignation. Yes, an expulsion occurs every month, a minister or a minister is expelled. And who's gonna be the next one or the next one to leave the house or the blue bank? For I believe you must be the Minister of Justice, but I must tell you, Mrs Celaá, that you are also nominated, and you will continue to be appointed if you do not change your mind, if you do not rectify and change your ministry. Are you planning on doing it? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u162	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u163	Thank you, Madam President. I will not answer such a question because it was not formulated. [[Apclaims.-A lady MP: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u164	Go ahead, Mrs. Hoyo.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u165	Minister, a government cannot be a spectacle, a government cannot be a chaos. Governance is a very, very serious issue and especially when we talk about education, because education is the basis of our society. Know that by announcing the elimination of the requirement of social demand to choose center you are going against article 27 of our Constitution and that you are also demonstrating that sectarianism on the left has no limits. Who are you to impose on families the education they want for their children? Of course, it must take into account that public education and private concerted education are complementary. What you have to do is guarantee freedom, yes, freedom, that concept that scares you so much but that is a fundamental pillar of our democracy. In these hundred days you have created a great social alarm by imitating autonomous presidents such as my own, Ximo Puig, in the Valencian Community, who have made genuine barbarities in the field of education and therefore more than 200 000 people have gone out to the streets to demand educational freedom. Mrs Celaá, rectify, do not go along the path of sectarianism, do not go along the path of radicality and illegality; rectify, you are still in time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u166	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u167	Welcome, Mrs. Hoyo, to the freedom club, welcome. We've been practicing it for 150 years. [[Applauds.-Several Members: Oh!]] I'll tell you more, Mrs. Hoyo, you're the only one that generates alarm. [[Mrs. Hoyo Juliá makes negative signs]] The concerted school has no alarm, the concerted school knows perfectly well the seats, the bench, the Socialist Party. I tell you more, the 1985 LODE, Mrs Hoyo, which set up the concerts, is socialist in nature. And I'll tell you more, there was agreement in education, there was agreement until 2013 of all political forces, except yours, but in 2013 you decided to change Article 109 of the Constitution and where it said that the obligation of the public authorities was to assist the fundamental right of the person to be educated, you put social demand, and social demand what has come to do from 2013 until now is that some of your administrations, Mrs. Hoyo, while administering the largest OECD cuts to public school, were building on public ground, giving concerts without authorizing these educational centers. That is what you have done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT OPINION DOES THE GOVERNMENT DESERVE THE CURRENT EDUCATION SITUATION IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00709]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u168	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, also to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u169	How does the Minister assess the situation of education in Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u170	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Girauta, for your question. As Education at a Glance states, Spanish education is located at the middle level of the rest of the OECD countries. It has some strengths and some serious shortcomings. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u172	Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u173	I appreciate your answer, but I would like to focus the question now on something more specific. There are areas in Spain where children are taught, for example, that the Industrial Revolution is an exclusively Catalan phenomenon. If you tell a young Catalan that the industrialization in Spain began in Malaga, you will tell him that you are crazy, you will faint and you will not be able to believe it, because the other arm of the tenaza, which are the Catalan public media, are telling you the story of an Andalusian vagus and making jokes about it. In Catalan textbooks it is found, for example, that resistance to Francoism was an exclusively Catalan phenomenon with very clear insinuations even that the Civil War was something against Catalonia and let us no longer say the War of Succession. The problem is that when you have explained that, when you have explained it to Mr Méndez de Vigo and when you have explained it to him in a report the High Inspection of the State, you have hidden that report, and when that report has been published in the press, you have devoted yourselves to discrediting the High Inspection of the State. Man, you already have it rachitica, malnourished and has become a head of service in government delegations. For example, Catalonia has two people. What can be done with that? At the central level, it is a general sub-direction. All of this leads you to leave something that should be in the hands of the state in the hands of those who organize coups of state. Both Mr. Mendez de Vigo, before you, and you have been negligent. Don't you realize that education is used as a political tool, as a key point or factor in social engineering? The classroom is sacred and not understanding that is a real freedom, minister. Please respect the work of the High Inspection of the State more and give it more resources. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u174	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Mr. Méndez de Vigo, my predecessor, commissioned a job and did not publish it. And you know why you didn't publish it? Probably because it lacked rigor, probably for the same reasons that this ministry doesn't make it public, but you can see it if you want. I will give you two examples because you, in the case of being a minister of Spain, would probably have done the same. In ESO 4th, Castellana Language and Literature, the same ISBN, a High Inspection says it does not name the Constitution, but the other says of the same text that does; of rights one says no, but the other says yes; of competences says yes, but says the other does not; and so on. I'm going to give you another example, because I'm sure we'll get along with the examples. In the same report, it says the following. On page 65 of a fifth-grade book by Editorial Barcanova, a photo of the facade of the Generalitat of Catalonia appears with the following paragraph: The powers of the Generalitat come from the people of Catalonia and are developed according to the main laws. The author comments that the idea of institutions can be passed on to students without any connection to Spain. But it is that a paragraph below in the same textbook says after two points: the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. Tell me, Mr. Girauta, is this careless, unruly or simply bad faith? [[Rumors]] He maintains that the Ministry of Education has abandoned its functions, but tell us, do you remember that the 1978 Constitution eliminated the previous censorship and shortly after the authorization of the textbooks? Mr. Girauta, I'm sure you know that the procedure is the complaint before the ordinary courts and, from there, the resolution of the ordinary courts... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u176	Thank you very much. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the questions addressed to the Government. First of all, urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli and Mr Salvador, concerning the Government's commitment and concrete actions to the future and development of the Foral Community of Navarre on the basis of the agreements provided for in the current Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. For your defence, Mr Alli has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and remain silent to listen to the speaker. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Executive who are still present at this hour of the morning, Minister of Finance, today we are going to ask you to be accountable to the citizens of Navarre. [[The lady]] But first it will allow me to reflect on what we are seeing in this House and, therefore, in this country at political level. We have lived another week of entertainment fed by what I have ever anticipated in this rostrum that it is the politics of the television set. We have increased audiences, but unfortunately we have also increased our discredit, that of all of us in general. Although it should never be generalized, I believe that from this battle of masters and doctorates we should draw the conclusion that the Spanish public university - the other great loser in this trench war - needs a process of analysis, regeneration, reforms and, above all, depoliticization. Therefore, as I said to you, Minister, after this week of frenzy, I think it is time to lower the ball to the field of play and, even at the risk of deflating the television share, to talk about possibly more boring things, but certainly much more important for the day-to-day of citizenship and, in this case, of all shipwrecks. Madam Minister of Finance, I know you know this, but let me remind you that in the Navarro People's Union, which on the other hand is the vast majority formation in the Foral Community of Navarre, we do not promise any imaginary countries - I can assure you that, yes, other political forces in my community - nor reach heaven and a land that do not exist. On the contrary, we try - and I say we try with all humility - to listen to the problems of Navarra's neighbours and to put solutions to them. That is why, in the negotiation of the current general budgets, we made use of our two seats in the Navarro People's Union in the Joint Parliamentary Group in this House and obtained some counterparts. Let me tell you some of them. For example, the General Budgets of the State - which, on the other hand, is the text of the law - collected the early retirement of the members of the Foral Police, of a small group of educators who remained outside the public system on this issue; we increased the number of examiners of the driving licence for the Navarra families; we made investments with specific agreements in terms of tenders for the high-speed train; we made free use of the AP-15 motorway, which, by the way, is not yet free for shipowners; we provided Tudela, for example, with financing for a new sports sport and we made investments in the sports field in other localities of the Ribera de Navarra; we also made investment in university research, in nature sciences, on the campus of the University of Navarra; or the works so necessary in the N-121 or the cleaning of the Ebro River to avoid the risk of flooding caused by the floods in recent years. Madam Minister, in that negotiation in the General Budgets of the State we do not see - at least the Union of the Navarro People does not - whether it was blue or red, whether it was a popular bench or a socialist bench, because what we already consider necessary and good for the shipowners with the former president, Mr Mariano Rajoy, we still consider it good and necessary for the shipowners with the current president, Mr Pedro Sánchez. I know that probably those budget lines achieved by the Navarro People's Union for all the Navarros are somewhat pedestrian issues, they are possibly lacking glamour and they have no flags nor much less ties or grandiloquence around them, but believe me, Minister, they are specific issues that, if carried out, will improve the lives of thousands of people in Navarre in very little time. In the light of this last statement, let me give you two considerations. The public investments collected for Navarre in the General Budgets of the State for the year 2018 - and by the way, we are on September 19 - are not good for the voters of the Union of the Navarro People, are not even good for the voters of the Socialist Party of Navarre, nor for Geroa Bai - here is the Basque Group - nor for the voters of Citizens, are good and necessary for all the shipwrecks. And the second reflection is the following. Minister, you've been in politics for a while and you know what this is about. If by 31 December of this year these budget items have not been implemented or have no obligation to pay or to pay, assessed by the General Intervention of the State, what will happen to them, Minister? What are you going to do to fix it? And believe me, when I finish my surgery, I'm gonna be all ears. Madam Minister, for all that I have said, I would like to express our concern, our great concern at the fact that we are in mid-September and note that the majority of those commitments embodied in the budgets with the new Government that it has assumed and that manages these budgets are not being implemented. I understand that they have been in office for just over a hundred days and that they have had to face very serious challenges, but I would ask you to inform Navarren citizens of your forecasts regarding the implementation of agreed commitments and the corresponding budget lines. In essence, Mrs Montero, what I have come to demand from you - and I say this with all my respect - is that you should be accountable to the citizens of Navarre today. Not implementing issues as concrete and valued - as I said before - as I mentioned earlier, would be to deepen the disbelief of all of us as I believe it is of common sense. The city of Navarra, especially in this case, might think that our word, our agreements in this House, however much written and published they are in a text of law and published in the official newsletters, are not worth anything. It would be regrettable if they could see that the achievements and achievements that we have been delighted to have in negotiating for the good of all of Navarre and so concrete and described, are like feathers that carry the wind of partyism and short-termism, and that responsibility, Minister, believe me, is going to be yours, because you are the highest responsible for the general budgets of the State. Mrs Montero, I would also like to tell you that there is a long history of understanding and projects beneficial to Navarren citizens and Spain, which we have set in motion, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and mine, the Navarro People's Union. For three decades we have launched such important facilities as the Public University of Navarra, a magnificent university; highways: the north, the road; the Navarra Canal or the beginning of the arrival of the high-speed train. For three decades, Minister, we put together the foundations that allowed Navarra to remain the Spanish community with the lowest unemployment rate and with one of the best incomes per capita and - of course not - one of the best social welfare rates. Let me tell you that I know this very well, because I agreed with you as a social policy advisor when you were at the Andalusian Council. I encourage you and your colleagues to maintain that path that has proved to be the most successful, and that you, especially the Socialist Party of Navarre, do not fall into the mermaid songs of Basque independence. You know that in all that is about continuing to work together for the well-being of Navarren and Spanish citizens you will count on our support. That is why, Madam Minister - and with this I conclude, Madam President - I ask you, I demand that you comply with the specific agreements of the 2018 General Budgets for the Foral Community of Navarre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Your Honor, you have asked me in this question about the commitment of the Government of Spain to the Foral Community of Navarre, and you will understand that the Government's commitment to all the autonomous communities, without distinction, is to try to support the governments of each of the territories by providing the necessary resources to enable them to develop, within their sphere of competence, the public services that they provide to citizens. It happens to us in all the autonomous communities; also obviously with Navarra. I share with you, Your Honor, in your presentation, the importance of policy making sense in the form and manner in which it can serve the general interest. Of course, we, the Government, have not been responsible for what you call 'audience' in the media, but you have seen that quite the contrary, that we have been the targets of some political groups that do not want, that are not encouraged to start talking about the problems of Spain, but rather to discredit, with all the means that they believe at their disposal, the members of the Government, as has been an expression today's sitting. But, Your Honor, speaking specifically of the question that you asked me or of the question that you asked me, it is true that you limit the commitment of the Government of Spain to the issues, to the accounts that were included in the General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. I'm going to try to answer with absolute clarity. You know that these public accounts were drawn up by the government that preceded us, despite the fact that there was a content on which the Socialist Party did not support, since it understood that much of the measures were anti-social measures, above all that they did not reverse the rights that citizens had lost as a result of the crisis. Therefore, when this government came to its responsibility, it chose to walk during the year 2018 on these public accounts, although it did not share them, because all our interest is put in compiling accounts for the year 2019, knowing that by the time of the calendar it was impossible to arrive at a new approval of budgets for the previous year not before November or December, and therefore meaningless for the general interest of the citizenry. I say this to you because, of course, your Honor, these are not our budgets, so we assume them and act accordingly, especially in those items that we believe were clearly deficient or conclusively lacking in the budget that the law conferred on them. That is, we will continue to comply with that obligation, so be calm, because this Government will comply with the law and will comply with the budgets. Anyway, Your Honor, I do not know the literal content of the agreement that your party, the Navarro People's Union, signed with the People's Party to commit itself to this support for the 2018 budgets, which I can only deduce from the content of the amendments that you have tabled throughout this process, and which were finally incorporated into this year's accounts. These amendments included various actions in the Navarra Community for a total amount of EUR 54.55 million of what I can read from the draft budgets. The most relevant ones affected road infrastructures, such as the A-15 project or actions on the N-12 road, for an amount of 10 million euros each; or the agreement to compensate for discounts on the AP-15 motorway toll, for 12 million euros. There were other areas of infrastructure, environmental or sports, but I am not going to go into that detail because I know you know them perfectly well. These are therefore accounts and numbers which are reflected in this year's General State Budgets, and which will be fulfilled as it cannot be otherwise. These are actions that fall under the responsibility of ministries such as the Ministry of Development, Ecological Transition, Culture or Sport, which will undoubtedly face these responsibilities and will be able to report on the degree of implementation of the commitments made. He also knew that the Government which had been incorporated in June had scarcely six months to implement the draft budgets, and he knew that whenever such circumstances arose, it must be borne in mind that what could be requested of that Government was the result of a budget approved late, approved mid-yearly and therefore with an implementation capacity that was only set aside for six months. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to commit ourselves and remain committed to the full text of the Budgets Act, but also to the set of additional provisions - numbers 157, 158 and 159 - which are the result of three amendments by your party, under the agreement with the People's Parliamentary Group. Provisions referring to an increase in the places of traffic examiners in the Foral Community of Navarre; retirement in the teaching bodies of the community; and recognition of reducing coefficients in the retirement age of the Foral Police. These are therefore issues that need to be addressed by the State Secretariat of the Civil Service and the Ministry of the Interior in the case of traffic examiners. In fact, Your Honor, I am aware that the Secretary of Budgets and Staff Costs is looking at all these issues with the different people in the partner ministries, and I hope that, if not all, the vast majority of the commitments that had been made can be fulfilled within the remainder of the year. A compromise, Your Honor, which I would like to insist that we extend to all the Autonomous Communities, obviously this Government cannot make any distinctions. But it can only respond to what is in the accounts of the General Budgets of the State, and to any other consideration that has been in the formal or informal discussions with the People's Party, we obviously have no record or any supporting document that indicates that they were actually commitments made with their group and that they were incorporated into the public accounts. Moreover, I can assure you that we will be in compliance with the entire budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. You have the floor again, Mr Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u182	Thank you, Vice-President-second of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Finance and the Head of State's General Budgets, Mrs Montero, thank you very much for your tone and your answers; and I would like to thank you for what you have said, which is going to comply with the law. Well, that will leave me with this speech that you have made to us earlier today, not only to the two Members of the Navarro People's Union, but to the whole of Navarra society. I also have some concerns, Minister, and I think it is good that we remember one of the basic principles - let alone the first - of Roman law, which is that the covenants are fulfilled, and especially the shipwrecks that we are people of our word. You said you're going to try to make the investments. Madam Minister, the budget items have their budget envelope and depend on you, on the central executive, and not only on you, but on the mobilisation of all the ministries that have budget items with names and surnames, who arrive at the Navarra Foral Community in the general budgets of the State. I would like to reiterate once again that this is the most relevant law voted in this House year after year. You've also tried to justify the no to the general budgets, I'm not going in there. But he said it was because there were antisocial measures. I want to understand that you have not referred to the millions of euros that have achieved the impetus of the Navarro People's Union in the negotiation with different parties, and especially with the government of Mr Mariano Rajoy, supported by the People's Party, saying that anti-social measures are included here, because all the millions of euros, up to the last cent - which I certainly hope will be invested on 31 December this year in my community, Navarra - are all dedicated to social measures. In addition, you have made a magnificent list of the amendments adopted and included in the State General Budgets, but when are you going to carry out, for example, the gratuitousness of the AP-15? Today many shipwrecks are traveling from the Ribera to Pamplona for medical reasons, for treatment, and continue to pay the toll on the AP-15 motorway. When, if we're on September 19th, and that match is provided with 12 million euros? What time? What are the concrete plans but not only for this infrastructure, but for the rest of the infrastructure, for the other measures collected, I insist, through amendments in the State's General Budgets? What I would like to see in your second speech is for you to tell me what firm commitments, what concrete plans, what dates and with what responsibility. You know very well that if in ministerial proceedings there is no payment order, in return for the commitments contained in the law, those items will be lost. Here I would like to pick up your commitment, that of your Executive, and therefore the commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party that those items which, despite the efforts of the Executive, have not been exhausted by 31 December this year will be repeated in the General Budgets of the State, beyond those infrastructures in public works that logically need multiannual items. I would like to gather from you today here and now your commitment, that of your party and that of this Executive, so that those items that do not exhaust are repeated in the budgets of next year 2019. There you will have our support, Minister. Finally, Minister, Mrs Montero, if you respect the amendments tabled by the Navarro People's Union to the State's General Budgets, you are helping Navarra to remain Navarra. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. The Minister for Finance has the floor to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u184	Thank you, President. Mr Alli, I believe that in my first speech I have been quite clear that one of the most important objectives of this Government is, of course, to implement the budget and to comply with the public accounts that are recorded there, but you are asking for a response to situations that are important to the Autonomous Community of Navarre, as you mentioned on a motorway, when this budget came into force in July. We've had little to run it for a month and a bit. I say this because you probably have to ask for accounts of why these infrastructures have not been made before the People's Party bench, which has been ruling since 2011 in this country, often according to your parliamentary formation. I therefore understand that this question is addressed to that group and not to my group, which, as I said earlier, has only had two months to implement the budget. You were telling me, Mr Alli, that if I could commit myself here in the rostrum since for the 2019 budgets those items that had not been implemented or had a continuity - I understand that budget - in subsequent years were included. The question is also reciprocal, Mr Alli, are you going to support Spain's budgets for 2019? They don't know, of course. This is like everything, isn't it? All political formations will have to talk, and therefore those commitments that political formations can reach in this dialogue can be translated into. Therefore, if you ask me to anticipate that position, I will tell you that we will obviously be prepared as it cannot otherwise be to the dialogue with UPN to approve accounts - these are clearly social - that allow to reverse the adjustments or the abuse of rights that the crisis has caused in the vast majority of the citizens of this country, because of the precariousness of the job, because of the decrease of the purchasing power of the pensioners, in order to achieve the revitalization of the health - which is one of our priorities - of education or dependence. Therefore in this tenor we will be able to talk about the public accounts for 2019, which I hope you will support, as I hope you will support the path of stability that is being dealt with by different formulas in this Congress of Deputies, so that these budgets can actually count - not only in Spain, but in autonomous communities and in Social Security - on EUR 6 billion that will allow, as I said, that the recovery can be perceived by the citizens, because to the extent that this happens, Mr Alli, we will also make policy useful and will increase the attachment of the citizens to all the politicians we are trying to at least solve their problems. I repeat what I said to you in my first speech. We are, as it cannot otherwise be, committed and responsible in the budgetary implementation of the elements that you have pointed out and of all the others envisaged in the draft budgets, and I hope that your political formation will hold hands so that we can have a dialogue in connection with the preparation of the public accounts. I am convinced, Mr Alli, that we can understand whether the will of both political groups - mine is - is that we are able to arbitrate public accounts that allow citizens to feel proud of their country, to feel proud of their autonomous communities, and can therefore contribute with their efforts to ensure that this recovery can reach the vast majority of their citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u185	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, on problems arising from land-use waste and measures necessary to meet its reduction. [[File number 172/000138]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u186	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the problems generated by plastic waste and the measures necessary to deal with its reduction. For your defence, Mr López de Uralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u187	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to the House of Congress a problem of growing concern to citizens: the impacts of increasing plastic pollution, and the need to articulate measures to stop it. Throughout the world, and also in Spain, there are increasingly public and private entities committed to combating plastic pollution, and more numerous measures are being taken to combat it. In Spain, in this, as in so many issues related to our environment, we are unfortunately in line. The problem is not yesterday, the problem is happening today. The global production of plastics has been triggered in the last 50 years, especially in the last decades. Between 2002 and 2013, for example, it increased by 50%, and 40% of them are disposable, i.e. to use and throw away. The data are overwhelming; silently, but continuously, our seas are becoming the final destination of many plastic waste: bags, bottles, straws, net remnants, sticks... During the research that Green Peace carried out in the year 2015, an average of 320 waste items were collected for every 100 meters of beach sampled in Spain, 75% of these waste plastic objects. There are also residues of other materials, but let us not be mistaken: plastics account for 95% of waste in the open sea, the seabed and the beaches. Therefore marine pollution has a name: plastic. So, where do those plastics come from? The plastic objects we dispose of - such as dishes, glasses, bottles, bags - can end up in a landfill, be incinerated or recycled or be thrown directly into the street, the river or the countryside. However, due to the action of wind and rain, these wastes can also reach the sea, even when we throw them into the trash. Thus, they can reach rivers or other waterways and even the sewage system of urban areas. Once there, unless they are extracted before, their final destination will be the sea, as far as we find ourselves from the coast. Today only 9% of all plastic we have produced and consumed to date worldwide has been recycled; 12% has been incinerated, and the vast majority, 79 %, has ended up in landfills or in the environment. These objects can also reach the sea from dumps by the water flowing through them. In addition, we find plastics in the sea that come from deliberate waste dumps, accidental dumpings from ships or effluents from sewage treatment plants. In any case 80% of the waste we find at sea comes from land, while 20% comes from marine activity. In the seas all this plastic has a very long life. Various sources amount to 150 million tons of plastics currently in the seas. That is why there is no longer a corner to which this pollution has not reached, from the Arctic to Antarctica. Once the objects reach the sea they can be ingested by marine fauna and accumulate inside, they can remain suspended or floating on the surface, they can finally sink or remain on the seabed and they can even be trapped in the ice of the Arctic. Plastics have already been found in the deepest areas, more than 10,000 metres deep. The plastics we find on the surface are only the tip of the iceberg, as they represent less than 15% of all plastics in the sea. Currently, five high concentration areas, known as plastic islands, have been found: in the Indian Ocean, two in the North and South Atlantic, and two in the North and South Pacific. The plastic island of the Pacific Ocean is equivalent to France, Spain and Germany together, and grows exponentially. A total of 1.8 billion pieces of plastic weighing about 80,000 metric tons are currently floating in an area halfway between Hawaii and California; it is the largest area of ocean plastic accumulation on earth. If the situation remains the same in 2025 we will have one ton of plastic for every 3 tons of fish, and in 2050 the oceans may have more plastics than fish by weight. Some say that we are faced with a problem of other latitudes, that this is happening in Asia, where the problem of pollution and consumption of plastics is brutal. But whoever that says forgets that Europe is the world's second largest plastic producer, after China, with a production in 2016 of more than 60 million tons, and as I said 40% is used for packaging and packaging to use and throw away. It is also forgotten that the pollution of the Mediterranean is particularly serious; the Mediterranean is considered - after the five islands to which I have mentioned - the sixth largest area of marine waste accumulation. This sea is home to only 1% of the world's waters, yet it concentrates 7% of the planet's microplastics. Because it is a semi-closed sea and with intense human activity, it functions as a trap for plastics, which accumulate in large quantities and remain in the Mediterranean for a long time, breaking down into smaller and smaller parts. By the way, among those countries that are pouring Spain into the Mediterranean, Spain ranks second after Turkey. Turkey pours 144 tons a day and we in Spain pour 126 tons a day of plastics into the Mediterranean. Plastic pollution is not only an environmental problem, it is also an economic problem, it affects key sectors in our country such as fisheries and tourism. Marine waste is estimated to cost the European Union's fishing fleet EUR 61.7 million as a result of reduced catches, ship damage or reduced demand due to concern about fish quality. Contaminated beaches can discourage visitors, and also have a high cost in their cleaning. The city of Nice, for example, spends 2 million euros a year to ensure that the beaches remain clean. How much does cleaning of our beaches cost us in Spain? In the Mediterranean we also find a large number of microplastics, similar to those of the plastic islands, to which I have referred. In fact, between 21 and 54% of all microplastic particles in the world are found in the Mediterranean basin, yet every day 30 million cans and plastic bottles are abandoned in Spain, which are now polluting our terrestrial, coastal and maritime environment. The degradation of practices does not solve the problem. Once plastic objects reach the marine environment, it takes decades to hundreds of years to degrade. The degradation time depends on the type of plastic and the environmental conditions to which it is exposed - sunlight, oxygen, mechanical agents. In the case of the oceans, ultraviolet radiation from sunlight is the main agent that degrades plastic. The wave action accelerates this process, and as a result the larger fragments break into smaller pieces, generating microplastics. It is difficult to estimate how long it takes to biodegrade plastic in the oceans, but it is considered to be much slower than on earth. All this time, until they degrade, plastic objects that reach the sea can cause serious damage to marine fauna. Seven hundred species of marine organisms are currently affected by this type of pollution - seven hundred species!-. Each year more than one million birds and more than 100,000 marine mammals die as a result of plastics reaching the sea. More than 90% of the damage to marine fauna caused by human waste is due to plastics. Globally, as I have said, seven hundred species are threatened, of which 17% are listed by the International Conservation Union as threatened or in critical danger. Unfortunately, the image of whales stranded on the beach, whose autopsy shows the stomach full of plastic materials, has become almost routine. In Spain we have recently seen a cachalote that swept off the coast of Murcia and had 34 kilos of plastics in its stomach. Plastics are already the cause of the death of three out of every hundred whales; they were shaking images of a whale in Thailand that had swallowed eighty plastic bags and died drowned, among terns. Worldwide, 344 species have been found trapped in plastics. In the Mediterranean, the main victims are birds, 35%; fish, 27%; and marine mammals, 13%. Plastics can also cause injuries, injuries, deformities and prevent animals from moving away from predators. It has been discovered that all species of sea turtles living in the Mediterranean ingest plastics. A 10-year WWF study of the bog turtle showed that 35% of the specimens analyzed had ingested waste, almost all plastic. Up to 150 plastic fragments have been found in some samples. In addition, 18% of tuna and swordfish have plastic remains in their stomachs, and so on. If this were not enough, as plastics degrade, due to their exposure to sunlight, they emit powerful greenhouse gases, mainly methane and ethylene, which make them net contributors to climate change. Plastics in the marine environment also have toxic compounds at concentrations up to a million times higher than those found naturally. Therefore the impact of these plastics on the marine environment goes far beyond the impressive images we see of trapped animals. So we can't go on, Minister. We know that the problem is global, but global problems also need local solutions. A few weeks ago we presented a proposal for a law in which we addressed the solutions that we are proposing. Indeed, the plastic producers asked the Bureau of Congress, very quickly, not to admit themselves to the process. We are finally faced with an attempt by industry to veto an initiative that has a full impact on the origin of a problem for which we are running out of time. From our point of view it is essential to take a step forward. It is not enough what is being done with regard to waste. We must go to the root of the problem and bet decisively on the reduction in origin and prevention. The only residue that does not contaminate is that that does not occur. It must be acknowledged that the current waste management systems are not reaching the levels of effectiveness required by the European Union. We fill our mouths talking about circular economy, but the reality is that we follow an open model of production, consumption and spillage, and the worst is that consumption time is getting shorter and shorter. Objects that pollute the sea have a very short life, hours or even minutes, before becoming waste that ends directly at sea. If we do not address the impact of our society of using and throwing, we will not be able to deal with the problem that we bring to this Congress today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u188	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for the Ecological Transition.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u189	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me take the license to start my intervention by paying tribute to Mrs Clara Barreiro, professor of the body then existing - I don't know now - of professors of institute, of baccalaureate, who was a professor of Art History, who back in the early eighties - with her, by the way, I pay homage to all the teaching bodies of public education - used to tell us the baccalaureate students that we were studying Art History that if an archaeologist of the future had to characterize our age and our generation, he would call us the generation of plastic. Any archaeologist, recognizing among the remains of cities and landfills the customs and trying to diagnose and understand the customs of past civilizations, could not overlook the amount of plastics we live with and get rid of. And, unfortunately, from the early 1980s to our date this is not a matter in which we can put too many medals. It is true that plastic is a versatile material and it is true that it has played a central role in our model of economic, industrial and consumer growth, but it is also, unfortunately, true that the kind of effects on environmental damage that it generates cannot be allowed. This is an important issue that must be addressed with seriousness and rigour, and I am grateful that Mr López de Uralde brings this matter to the plenary of this House. The data are categorical, some of which you have provided, and give an idea of the challenge we face. Globally from 5 to 13 million tons of plastics - which account for almost 4% of the world's plastic production - end up in the oceans every year causing increasing public concern, perhaps because we now see what we have seen relatively recently and we know, as has been well indicated, that what we see is only that limited surface that hides what is below water. In the European Union these data are also extremely worrying: between 150 000 and 500 000 tonnes each year end up in the ocean. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u191	The impact of plastic waste is very important. Its durability also facilitates the creation of new vectors for the course of invasive species. Multiple studies directly correlate plastic intake by marine species with increased mortality. It is shown that the main causes of strangulation of marine animals are related to fishing gear, bags, balloons, hats, straws and plastic rings of can packs. It is estimated that 99% of the world's marine bird species will have plastic in their stomachs by 2050 and, as indicated, it is likely that by that date, if we do not remedy it, there will be more plastic weight than fishing mass weight. It is a situation that is also corroborated by the data we have in the ministry regarding marine litter on beaches. 70% of the objects found on our beaches are made of plastic. They correspond to items such as plastic pieces, collars, ropes, caps, sticks, bottles, bags, among many others. Added to this is the issue of microplastics, tiny fragments of less than 5 millimetres in size that accumulate in the sea, where their small size makes it easier for fish to ingest them by entering the food chain. Therefore, anyone who undergoes a blood test will find that they have these small fragments in their body. Fortunately, sensitivity has grown. Today we see how public opinion reacts, but this is not enough. There is a growing awareness of the global nature of this challenge, as demonstrated by international initiatives at the United Nations on marine waste, plans of action presented in the G-7, the G-20, the Ospar International Convention or the Barcelona Convention or at conferences of all kinds where important, interesting, yet unsystematic initiatives accumulate. Most of the plastic waste we found at sea, where do they come from? On land. It is true that the United Nations Environment Assembly adopted a resolution on this subject and, finally, in 2018, World Environment Day was dedicated particularly to a planet without plastic pollution. European society, the Spanish society, are equally aware and understand that we must rethink, re-establish the functioning of a value chain so complex that it starts, in fact, with the production of a good that can most likely be replaced by other materials. We, this Government, are echoing this strong social demand and we want to adopt an ambitious plastic road map on which we are working and hope to be able to face the final straight line in the coming months. In our view, promoting prevention in waste generation is undoubtedly the best measure and will achieve the objectives set out in the Europe Roadmap towards an efficient Europe in the use of resources, that is to say to that circular economy to which we all point as a means of modernising industry and the economy. For the development of this strategy, the Commission presented its proposal for a directive to reduce the impact of certain plastic articles, focusing on ten emblematic articles that we frequently find in waste and which are nothing more than the principle of a path that we must go through to the end. This proposal sets out various measures ranging from the ban on placing on the market to the development of extended producer liability schemes through the implementation of reduction measures, the development of awareness campaigns or improvements in ecodesign and labelling. Spain welcomes this proposal. We believe that it is essential to work at European level, to work at national level and, in a country like ours, especially facing the seas and coasts, the abandonment of plastic waste creates serious problems in our economy. The Commission's intention is to try to conclude the negotiation before the end of the Juncker Commission's mandate and we therefore hope to have a European framework before the end of the year, but that does not prevent the Ministry from already working together with the other ministerial departments directly concerned - Health, Fisheries and Industry - in this field. On the other hand, we must take advantage of the directives amending three basic pieces of waste legislation by setting targets for recycling and restricting the dumping of municipal waste in the medium and long term: targets for recycling of global packaging and for materials and obligations to reduce waste disposal. We have begun to work on its transposition and we should not be late, which, as you have pointed out, has been common in the field of the environment. We can't afford it. The incorporation of these pieces of legislation into our system with the greatest speed is essential and must accompany the improvement of waste management in Spain. Since we cannot simply transpose European legislation, we have to address directly the rest of the issues that can make us improve the preservation of the environment and the quality of life and its relationship with the waste generated by plastic. We have some first premises. A real decree on reducing the consumption of plastic bags was recently adopted, culminating in a work that we had begun in 2008. It is probably insufficient but, fortunately, it is there and it is a real decree that prohibits the placing on the market, from 2021, of light plastic bags that are not compostable. Like I said, it's not enough. We need to complete the work of the Spanish Circular Economy Strategy and we need to include in this strategy, among other issues, the incorporation of measures stemming from the European Plastics Strategy. A road map of plastics in Spain is therefore essential and must go beyond the single-use regulation of the treatment of plastics referred to in the proposal for a directive. Among the issues that we believe should inspire this road map are the strategy of reducing the use of plastics at the origin of the consumption chain, a progressive increase in reuse targets in order to avoid uncontrolled abandonment of plastics in the environment and a recycling cover for the reincorporation of the decreasing fraction of unused plastics. In principle, the road map should include measures to reduce the excessive use of plastic, as is the case with something as obvious and visible to any citizen as overpacking in many consumer sectors; measures to promote the prevention, reuse and recycling of plastic waste and the use of recycled plastics, for example by encouraging the use of reusable plastic in public purchases, regulating the end of plastic residue status and forcing the incorporation of recycled plastic into those products where this is feasible. Also, measures to restrict oxodegradable and microplastic plastics intentionally added to many products; measures to track marine litter including microplastics and abandoned garbage in terrestrial media, to the extent possible recovery of that litter. Also awareness-raising measures and training campaigns for citizens, and economic measures for the use of public and private funds in a manner consistent with this scenario. We therefore welcome the suggestions and support of all parliamentary groups, and in particular of that bill put forward by the Podemos Group. [[The Lord]] I would like to recall before I conclude that this must be complemented by the consequences of China's restrictions on imports of plastic waste, which so far seemed to be the invisible solution we found in many Western countries. Therefore, this creates an immediate impact, a very rapid reaction obligation with regard to how to quickly improve the management of large-scale plastic waste generated in the agricultural environment. In this regard, in order to move towards a coordinated solution, meetings are being held with plastic manufacturers, managers, agricultural organizations and autonomous communities to explore possible solutions in the short, medium and long term. Ultimately, this Government is working to address the serious problem of plastic management, to reduce its volume and to facilitate a transformation of the production sector from the use of other types of raw materials that can offer the same performance as plastics. In any case, in adopting the road map strategy with all its measures, we will maintain maximum participation and transparency by seeking solutions that will include as much as possible all sectors and actors that are key to successfully addressing the responses to this challenge. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr López de Uralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, so far we have talked about the problems that generate these waste, but we believe that we must recognise that the current waste management system in Spain has failed, and to continue with the same model and the same road map seems to us that it will not lead us anywhere. As far as plastic waste is concerned, the reality is that we are failing as a society. The current management systems are not reaching the recovery levels required by the European Union and it is therefore essential to rethink the model. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, packaging recycling does not reach 30% of those placed in the environment, and some environmental organizations even consider this data to be very optimistic and recycling data to be even lower. Recycling rates show that the current yellow container system is a failure. It is certainly better than nothing, but it is far from being an ecological and sensible system. The situation is dramatic, as the low levels of recycling make it impossible for that path to lead anywhere. Ecoembes charges for every packaging placed on the market to recycle it, but the reality is that recycling levels are very low, and that is why some autonomous communities, such as Navarre or Balearic Islands, are already legislating on their own in the line we have proposed here too. In addition, in recent years there has been a proliferation of plant fires supposedly dedicated to recycling, about sixty in 2017 alone, which we have reported to the Environmental Prosecutor's Office, which is investigating, as we believe that so many fires cannot be random. Managing companies charge supermarkets, industries, administrations or other companies to take them away, but then there is no real follow-up on what happens to such waste. In 2017 the Court of Justice of the European Union also drew attention to the Government of Spain for not closing sixty-one illegal landfills or taking measures to prevent them from emerging. And the fact that China has closed its doors to the waste, that we understand it to be a good measure, let us hope that it will not be resolved by looking for another country to dump them in, but that solutions will really be sought within our country. So we really need new measures to deal with the problems caused by plastic waste and here are some of the proposals we are making. First of all, the reduction. Indeed, in order to begin to curb plastic pollution, it is essential to reduce and to reduce the need to legislate and to adopt legal measures that will definitively and in origin eliminate those plastic products from short-lived use and disposal and for which there are alternatives. We talk about plastic bags, disposable blankets, straws, dishes, glasses and disposable cups. All of that must go away. We also propose that the marketing of products containing microplastics and disposable versions of lighters, shaving machines, etc. should be prohibited. If we want to solve the problem, we have to move in a different direction in which we have gone so far because the problem only gets worse and, if we continue along the same lines, it will continue to get worse. Secondly, reuse. When we have already consumed a product, what is the most environmentally friendly thing we can do? Reuse it, logically. The same pack can be used thousands of times. How can we ensure that the packaging is returned to the manufacturer? We propose to impose the Deposit, Return and Return System, SDDR, which consists of paying a small deposit for the packages we buy and recovering that money if we return it. If you give it back, you don't pay. This was done in Spain a few years ago with bottles of milk, beers, soda, etc. SDDR is fundamental to getting people to perceive the obligation to return the packaging. Unfortunately, without SDDR people throw containers anywhere. For other types of packaging we can keep the yellow container, which would have to be collected less times and could even be used for all kinds of plastics such as toys, ornaments, etc. In short, we propose a law that addresses the problem. As we see, the problem has deep roots and needs far-reaching changes to be addressed. First, it is necessary to recognize its magnitude and to address it. We plan that this law will address the following aspects: the need to eliminate plastic products from one use at source; promote the reduction in origin of waste generated; modify integrated management systems; allow SDDR system; and promote re-use ahead of recycling. In short, the aim is to put an end to the system of using and throwing away and promoting a culture that moves away from consumerism. We also advocate the launch of an international agreement that will put an overall stop to the problem we are dealing with today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u194	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Ecological Transition.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for this opportunity to insist, as I said before, on a fundamental issue in which the first step is to recognize and understand the orders of magnitude of what we are talking about, the problem we have to face and the so important change that it means in our behaviour, in our usual patterns and in our culture as citizens and consumers. I would like to begin by pointing out something that you have contributed to the debate and which is indeed worrying. I think it is very interesting to see what has happened with this proposal and this work carried out in Navarre and other autonomous communities that have taken the lead in these initiatives. Why? Because the first logical comment of priorities would be that it is not good that there is market fragmentation or that there is fragmentation of the territory in the management of something as fundamental and as intrinsic to the free movement of goods and services as it is to have different systems of waste management, when they are waste, or the prevention of waste generation. However, when no solutions are provided at the State level or are insufficient, this fragmentation occurs. It seems to me, therefore, that we must take note of this and facilitate as much as possible the coherence between the different answers or the different nuances to the answers that can be given by all the Autonomous Communities, but being at the forefront of the proposal for solutions to this issue, as many others do. At present, among the work being carried out in the Ministry, there are some issues that point to the need to incorporate lessons learned in the already more than twenty years of waste management systems since the first standards appeared at Community and national level. Among them, I would like to highlight the following aspects. Firstly, we believe that it is essential to make progress on the mandatory separation of waste at source in the service sector, at least in the same fractions as for household waste, since the separation of waste in households can now be extended to all municipalities but is not at the service level. Secondly, we believe that it is essential to regulate the end-of-waste criteria for plastic, so as to ensure the introduction into the production cycle of a quality secondary raw material with guarantees of protection for human health and the environment. Thirdly, coinciding with what you have just pointed out and what other countries in our environment are already doing, we must move forward in regulation for restriction and culminate in the prohibition of microplastics intentionally added to certain products, such as cosmetics or paints. In this respect, we will have to see how far the regulation proposed by the European Commission through the REACH Regulation comes and when it materialises; or, if not, progress in our own territory, being clear that if it is delayed or insufficient it is essential to act at national level. Meanwhile, we are working on signing voluntary agreements with quantifiable objectives in those sectors where the problem is clearer, more defined and more relevant. It said before that the agricultural sector in our view is fundamental, because the type of plastics it uses and the problem it poses to the sector itself is of such a size that it is essential to facilitate the recovery and recycling of plastics used in these environments. Secondly, the hotel sector. The services sector had previously targeted the whole, but there is no doubt that the hotel sector is at the forefront of the whole, encouraging the reduction in the consumption of hygiene products in plastic packaging, advancing in metering devices and avoiding the use of single-use products. Another potentially important sector is the automotive industry for the incorporation of recycled plastic in the manufacture of many of the vehicle components, as we are a power in this regard both in the production and assembly of vehicles and in the auxiliary industry. Also the textile and/or tyre sector, to investigate how to reduce the unintentional release of microplastics from these articles. It is essential to facilitate the participation of all sectors and, among the elements in which it is necessary to emphasize, we should include the objectives of the regulations on re-use and separate packaging in light packaging, so that the presence of these waste in the remaining fraction occurs; to analyse the possibility and feasibility of establishing models of delivery or storage for beverages and other forms of waste recovery - I believe that some of these elements or flows should be separated from the chain -; to make progress in the incorporation of circular economy criteria in fixing the financial contributions that producers must make to waste management; to put into operation new instruments for obtaining information on products placed on the market through new sections of the Register of Producers; or to analyse the feasibility of using economic instruments that encourage or penalize to advance prevention and recycling. As I said before, I think we are at a very good time to work in this field with all the parliamentary groups and the economic and social sectors that wish to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Government's Policy on Measures for the Social, Economic and Professional Recognition of Teachers. [[File number 172/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u197	After the debate, we moved on to the next item on the agenda. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the Government's policy on measures for the social, economic and professional recognition of teachers. For your defence, Mrs Moneo Diez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, teaching is the critical element for improving the quality of the education system. In fact, the level of knowledge of the teacher and the quality of the teacher can explain up to 30% of the variation in school results. Any reform which therefore aims to boost the quality of the system must necessarily rely on the faculty. Spanish democracy has undergone successive educational reforms, the majority driven by the government of sign to which you belong, by the socialist governments. In fact, only Lomce, approved by the People's Party Government and partially implemented today, has had anything but different. But the great reform pending is that which affects the faculty. A few days ago they started new school. The press note accompanying this beginning of the course and issued by his ministry indicated a number of priorities: the reform of the Lomce, the recovery of territorial cooperation programmes, the repeal or if he wants to reverse the measures adopted in the decree of April 2012. Well, as I say to you, Minister, this is a matter of priorities, it is your project and you have the right to develop it as you please, but the truth is that none of them referred to the teaching statute or to the change in the system of access to teachers, or to the professional career. In your first appearance before this House, my group has already warned you of the need to address this series of issues. Last September 4th in his appearance before the Committee on Education and Vocational Training to report on what happened at the last Sectoral Conference on Education, we ask him, we ask him, that beyond cosmetic and short-term changes be addressed the reform of the faculty in depth, that he also do so with the agents involved, with trade unions, with professional organizations, that he count on the groups of this House, that ultimately promote the great reform pending of our democracy. We ask you to draw up a general law on the management of the teaching profession and you, Minister, did not even answer us. Last Friday the Council of Ministers addressed the reversal of the measures of the decree of April 2012 and although I sincerely believe that on this issue as a whole we have already discussed you and I, let me point out some issues to you, because you are going to pass a preliminary draft law to cover measures that are already practically in the pre-2012 situation. The ratio is, as you know, at levels below 2012 for a fundamental reason, because the student-teacher ratio was conditioned to the replacement rate and you know, Minister, that since 2016 the replacement rate is one hundred percent. Moreover, their indicators, those of the ministry itself, tell us that it is below what the law itself establishes, especially in public education. He knows that teacher replacements were partially reversed, cases of students with specific needs, specific education, maternity leave, paternity, adoption, etc., but there were other issues, and he was also told to the Commission and I repeat it again now. My group will always support any measure that implies an improvement in the professional, social, economic conditions of the faculty, and it will do so because we are fully aware that teachers throughout the period of crisis have been asked for an important effort. We are aware that thanks to their dedication and dedication our educational system has not resented it. Moreover, early educational abandonment is 18.3% today, eight points below 2010. That is to say, today we are closer than we were to reach the 15% target for Europe by 2020. Nor has the number of teachers been reduced, Minister, today in public education there are 21,529 more teachers than in 2010. The 2017 budgets set up a more temporary employment stabilization programme for interim teachers with the aim of achieving an interim rate of 8% in 2019. You, Minister, have received a ministry with much better indicators than the Prime Minister of the People's Party received in his day. It has a good situation to deal with the pending reforms in relation to the faculty, but if we ask it today it is because the view so far does not make us optimistic. There is one point in these and other issues that we are concerned about and, unfortunately, what has been observed so far is to reaffirm something that we fear and what you must answer, and it is if the only thing that teachers of this Government can expect and in this legislature is a change of teaching time to the letter that will have the most impact on the breakdown of the system and that will leave the fate of the faculty to the discretion of the autonomous communities. That is to say, Minister, we want you to tell us whether you have given up exercising your powers; competences, on the other hand, which you recognise in the very explanatory statement of your preliminary draft law by successive rulings of the Constitutional Court, which endorses the competence of the State to regulate on a basic basis the minimum teaching day of teachers, something on the other hand that the unions themselves are demanding from you. Because you know as I do that the teaching profession is a regulated profession, and it is because it is included within those professions that affect fundamental rights or constitutionally relevant property, and the right to education is. And it is the State, therefore, Minister, that alone is competent to grant authorization for the exercise of teaching and to lay down its conditions by law. [[The lady]] It was for this reason that the Government, in Decree 14/2012, established the minimum teaching day which, in fact and exceptionally, had to be increased, while its preliminary draft is the one that delegates to the educational administrations, to the autonomous communities, the regulation of the minimum teaching day, giving up the competences that you have as a Government and causing the breakdown of the national bodies of the faculty. Madam Minister, we cannot allow first-class teachers and second-class teachers, nor can you as Minister of the Government of Spain allow the state to be disowned from its powers. Its policy of gestures, of gestures to our opinion without ambition in its measures and without budget in relation to these measures, worsens considerably if it also implies a renunciation of the Government to exercise its powers and safeguard the equal opportunities of the fundamental pillar of the educational system that is the teacher. Madam Minister, you know that over the past year and a half in this House, with the absolute respect of the previous Government and its predecessor, the various parliamentary groups have worked with the aim of achieving a great educational pact. The fourth chapter of that document was devoted to teachers; the People's Parliamentary Group, the group I represent today, bet that the situation of teachers would be addressed in second place, once the principles, objectives and purposes of the education system had been agreed. For the sake of the agreement, we accept that funding should replace teachers in that second place. As I said before, it is a matter of priorities. I think the rest of the story you know. We could not work on the faculty because their parliamentary group first and the United Group We can then decide to abandon the pact, further preventing the rest of the groups from continuing to work. Now it is up to you to take the initiative, you are the government, and you know perfectly well that our education system still has a major margin for improvement, but I am also sure you are aware that education systems of excellence have made teacher-centred policies a real priority. Moreover, even if you were right, even if you were right, even if the whole of the House were right in other parts of a possible reform, if we were not right in everything about teachers, the influence on improvement would be of little relevance. This parliamentary group, Minister, has a model, has a proposal that allows us to address the situation of teachers in a global way, because if we talk about teacher reform, reform has to be global; partial decisions cannot be made, change has to be total. First of all, we must ensure that the best dossiers, the ones with the greatest vocation, give way to the exercise of teaching; but to this end, young people must have personal and professional incentives and I am afraid that the potential expectations of the new generations are not met by the current model. We have good teachers, Minister, you know that and we all know that, but we do not give them enough opportunities and we must start at their origin, by initial training, because if we are to be more demanding in the training and selection of teachers, we must analyse this in its beginnings, from the beginning, and change all those obsolete aspects and add the new demands of a changing educational model. We must articulate a model of access to the teaching function at national level - because, as I have pointed out before, Minister, it is the competence of the State to do so - which, on the principles of merit and capacity, guarantees equal opportunities for all those who want to take the lead in the exercise of teaching. Since 2011, we have been talking about the possibility of implementing an educational MIR similar to that which has made the health system one of the best in the world. Well, it's time to move from words to facts. However, the process of selecting the faculty must necessarily be completed by the design of a professional career that conforms to a series of degrees and allows evaluation, rewards and training to be inserted into a career plan. We are, Minister, faced with the nuclear element of the education system because you know as I do that education can change people's lives, so every child deserves the best education. Think about it, minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u199	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u200	Madam President, Mrs Moneo, ladies and gentlemen. I am not surprised, Mrs Moneo, that you ask me urgently what you say you have identified since 2011. But you say in your explanatory statement - 100 days, ma'am; 100 days - that you draw up a professional career design for teachers, which modifies the initial training of the system of access to the teaching profession, which provides for a nationwide test that ensures equal opportunities throughout the national territory, common training and a common access system in all the autonomous communities as a priority objective, which you also call on the Commission and the Council of Europe. One hundred days, ma'am. You, seven years old. [[Applauds]] Okay. For you, teaching is the most important thing. For me, too. But, hey, don't stop surprised. Look, as a minister, I pointed out in my first appearance that one of the guiding principles of the ministry's policy I lead would be support for the professional development of teachers. I reiterate that statement and am glad to have the opportunity to answer it. But before I do, I would like to point out that I do not share with your honor the understatement that makes of the repeal of Royal Decree-Law 14/2012 which the Council of Ministers approved last Friday. Support for teachers - you and I agree - means, first of all, setting the conditions for them and they to be able to carry out their task with minimal guarantees of success. The high ratios and hours of teaching and the lack of substitutes established in this royal decree made the complex teaching task more difficult. It is quite true, as you say, that some autonomous communities had already reversed that so unfair standard for teachers, you yourselves had walked your own steps; so unfair for teachers and so negative for the quality of education. But others had not been able to do so, and the Government's obligation is to ensure that all teachers have these minimum conditions guaranteed. That is why we were so surprised that the five popular councillors got up from the sectoral conference. It surprised us a lot. [[Applauds]] For us, Your Honor, it is essential to recognize that all teachers have been able with their professionalism to continue to offer quality education under very difficult conditions. We cannot allow that precariousness to remain in our classrooms. However, I am fully aware that this measure, although very important, does not address all the elements of a teaching policy which, in order to be truly efficient, must be comprehensive, Mrs Moneo. This is one of the key ideas in which I want to insist: an integral policy involves acting together and coherently in the different elements and phases that make up the teaching profession, that is, initial and continuing training, access to the teaching function, the process of induction to the profession that a teacher must follow in order to become a student in a teaching professional and the professional career model that he must be able to develop. These are all aspects that go together and have been highlighted by all specialists for quite a number of years, Mrs Moneo, and which organisations as well recognized as the OECD have repeatedly stressed. In this last line, let me remind you of the importance of the Education policy outlook report. Making reforms happen - published in 2015, when you were ruling - which highlighted the prominent place that teacher policies have occupied in recent years in educational reforms in OECD countries and the Boosting teacher quality report. Pathways to effective policies, published by the European Commission a few weeks ago, which reviews the policies of the faculty that are being carried out in the countries of the Union and which ones are most promising. This set of work carried out by specialists and organizations marks the way forward in designing and implementing teaching policies that are both effective and innovative. In this necessary - I agree with you - process of building a new comprehensive teaching policy we will assume the driving role that corresponds to our ministry, have no doubt, we will assume, we will push it; in a hundred days. [[Applauds]] But that, Mrs Moneo, does not exclude that we have all the people, organizations and political forces that have something to contribute and that, by the way, there are many. I am particularly pleased that many - I am not going to quote them singularly - have addressed our ministry in order to provide us with reflections, concerns and proposals that we welcome and are analysing as they deserve. We also have on the table proposals such as those obtained by our predecessors in this ministry, such as the almost-born Statute of the Teaching Public Service, drawn up and discussed in 2007, which introduced, for example, the proposal of degrees in the professional career; those drawn up also by the team of Minister Gabilondo for teacher training, based on the strengthening of training practices and professional induction, or those which Professor José Antonio Marina provided at the request of Minister Méndez de Vigo. All of them are the basis for our work, which has as its ultimate goal the improvement of the teaching profession, convinced that they are the key factor for the improvement of education received by our younger fellow citizens. To this end, we formally commit ourselves to starting immediately a participatory process of reflection and debate on teaching professionalism in an integrated perspective, allowing us to resume all those initiatives in which we have a greater degree of support. As your honor points out in the text of your inquiry, there is a broad agreement on the essential elements to promote the quality of the teaching profession as they are to attract the best; to offer them a vertebrate initial training around a reflective practiceum; to establish a phase of induction, now non-existent, coordinated with access to the exercise of the profession; to develop a set of teaching profiles - facilitator of learning, guidance, conflict resolution, etc. - and to ensure a variety of ongoing training activities that strengthens the teaching teams and transcends the mere updating of knowledge. We want to design a system of evaluation of teaching performance that is not lived as a threat but as an aid to improve the practice itself and to advance the teaching career. And what is essential is to take all these measures within an integrated framework. The commitment to the spending ceiling that we have for this year obviously prevents us from addressing all the measures in their entirety, but we will use this time to agree and work with the faculty and its representatives, with the rest of the sectors of the school community, with the faculties of education, with professional associations and with the autonomous communities and with the political forces of this Chamber. We're going to do it quietly, Mrs. Moneo, I'm going to meet you if you want to meet with me, and we're going to analyze it together. But we will not dilate it beyond reasonableness because there are enough elements of entity on the table that advise us so. Our approaches have also begun to translate into concrete actions and plans that we have put in place in these few hundred days of government. As I pointed out at the sectoral conference on 30 July last, one of the key strategic lines is to promote and strengthen territorial cooperation in all the plans and projects we undertake. We will convene for the first two weeks of October the General Commission of Education and its attached commissions, starting precisely with that of teaching staff. In this committee we will address urgent issues of human resources management, we will also present the work plan on professional teaching development. On the other hand, in the context of the Proeducar territorial cooperation programme, which has been in operation for several years, one of the activities is the training of teachers focused precisely on intervention programmes to reduce school drop-out. As is well known, the programme is co-financed by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training and the European Social Fund. In 2018 it is planned to continue with this program. We have included, though, a substantial modification that we believe will improve the impact of the program and it is the extension of the performances to the teaching period, not being limited only to the evening and summer period, as was the case so far. This proposal will be submitted to the Autonomous Communities which also use the teaching period for the training of their teachers. We will also launch, in coordination with the Autonomous Communities, a training and mobility programme for FP teachers, which will be coordinated by the National Institute of Educational Technologies and Teacher Training with the collaboration of the Directorate-General for Vocational Training. The aim of this new initiative is to maintain and improve the competences of teachers linked to teaching teams working on transformation projects in the centres to improve the quality and inclusiveness of teaching, and we will encourage national mobility. I would also like to refer to another program: stays and exchange of teachers in teaching centers in the autonomous communities and cities, which we will call for the 2018/2019 course so that teachers and management teams can directly observe the performance of other colleagues who are already examples of good practices. These are training visits in which a host educational centre welcomes a team of two to five professionals from an educational centre in another community or autonomous city, so that they can observe for a period - five school days - the teaching practice developed in the classrooms and educational spaces as well as the corresponding organizational measures. All these programmes constitute, Mrs Moneo, a strategic plan for territorial cooperation on teacher training. They respond to the approach of training based on reflection on practice and collaborative work, which is the method that experts in professional teacher development advise to promote. I'm done. As you can see, this Government really attaches great importance to teaching policies and we hope to have the support of all the groups in the House - yours too - to move forward in this area that we know is key to improving the quality of education. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u201	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Moneo Diez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the truth is, the surprised one is me. I deeply regret that the main opposition party - which on the other hand is the party that won the last general elections and is the majority party of this House - is so wrong that it comes to this rostrum and asks it to carry out its government work, because that is the objective of this inquiry. It's not a matter of time, it's a matter of priorities. I am glad to have been able to hear from you different actions that you intend to carry out in relation to the subject of the faculty, but you have not addressed the issues that I have raised to you and I want you to answer me. First because, as you have said, all national and international reports - since the McKinsey report of 2007 - state that successful education systems are those that are undergoing in-depth teacher reforms. And a thorough reform is not a mobility of teachers from one community to another; a thorough reform is a change in the system of degree in initial training, it is a national test designed by the State. By the way, you have not answered me whether you intend to abdicate your competence as the Government of Spain to carry out a nationwide test for all those who want to access the exercise of teaching, because the selection system is a key system in improving any profession and that is also an international indicator, Minister. You guys want to do a career? Perfect. The professional career includes the teaching status but also the degrees linked to the training, and in this sense, Minister, you will have to make a reasonable proposal, because the words may be the same but the result may be different. You're right about one thing, we've ruled for seven years - you before, much more - and we've been talking about teachers since 2007. In 2011 the model of educational MIR appeared for the first time in a scientific article written by the deputy of the Popular Party Don Eugenio Nasarre and the former president of the State School Council, Don Francisco López Rupérez. It was the first time that someone perfectly developed the educational MIR. But you will understand that it was very difficult to develop a career when what we were asking the teachers was an extraordinary effort in a country on the verge of bankruptcy that we had inherited from a government of the Socialist Party. You have the fortune that we did not have to implement teacher reform and I offer you more than you offered us, I offer you loyalty, loyalty because we care about education. [[applause]] That's the reality, Minister. Therefore, I ask you to take our proposal into consideration because it is a valued, calibrated proposal that does not arise overnight - as I said to you, Minister, we have been working on it since 2011 - because it answers even questions that we read in the subcommittee of the pact itself, including the global reform that was being discussed today by the Secretary of State - which this group deserves the utmost respect - Mr Tiana, or Mr Fernández Enguita. Madam Minister, we are not inventing anything, but I am afraid that the list of subjects and the list of measures that you have put forward today is more than the same. I would like you to come up to this rostrum and tell us that you are willing to address a law, that this law provides for a national test, a career, a change in the system of degrees, a preferential training throughout your life and that any teacher, whether in public, concerted or private education, will have to have that national access test to vertebrate the system, because that will be the great strength of our educational system and not another. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u203	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u204	Let us conclude, Mrs Moneo: yours is not the formation of the teacher, but the national test, the standardization of the national test. We will call things by their name because they are two different things and two different debates. In relation to the national test you're referring to, don't mask it for me. The first thing I have to say is that the general procedure of all the access tests in all the autonomous communities has been the same, and you were in the ministry: barmo, type of exercise, elimination character or not of exercises. Look, the PSOE and the unions argued that the first test was not an elimination, and you decided that it was, and so it was. Do you now want to criticize your own ministry for not having done a test as you want, a national test? What are we talking about? Are we talking about the faculty or the national test? [[Applauds]] You are separating yourself from the Constitution and the statutes, you are separating yourself from the autonomous state and miles every day. How can you comment on this masked in what is teacher training? Do you know how many cohesion systems our autonomous state has? You see, the structure of the system is unique and is enshrined in an organic law; there is a basic curriculum core; the titles are state and have both academic and professional recognition throughout the State; the teaching bodies are state-based and autonomous; there are programmes of territorial cooperation; there are institutional coordinating bodies. But I will tell you more, the studies of the Magisterium and the master's degree in formation of the teacher of secondary education and baccalaureate, the Mesob, ma'am, lead to a regulated profession and, therefore, its curriculum is established directly by the Ministry of Education. Today after a hundred days here, but yesterday at seven years there. Therefore, in these ministerial orders it is where 80% of the curriculum is established that must be taught both by the students of the Magisterium for teacher of education and for teacher of primary education, as well as the students of the Mesob for the baccalaureate. What are you talking about, ma'am, when countries like the United States, Canada or Germany, with less elements of federal cohesion, even, do not question the existence of the Länder or the states? You separate each day from the Constitution and the Statute. On the substantive issue, I have just told you absolutely all stages: initial training, induction, evaluation, etc. Obviously, recognition of that assessment will have to be made. All the stadiums I've been mentioning to you, but you've preferred to take territorial cooperation. If we really agree to do a good job with teacher training, you know and know all the political forces of the House that this ministry is willing to open a forum - and will do so within a few days - to address this issue in an integrated, serious and useful way for the quality of the Spanish education system as a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-19-CD180919.u205	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was twelve thirty-five minutes from noon. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 148, corresponding to the Plenary held on Tuesday 18 September 2018, on page 33, the first intervention of the Vice-President, second line, where she says: 'For the People's Parliamentary Group...' she must say: 'For the Joint Parliamentary Group...'. [[Navarro Garzón]]
