ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of various royal decrees-laws. First, debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 5/2018 of 27 July 2018 of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European Union data protection law. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. The Minister of Justice has the floor to present the royal decree-law on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 July the Royal Decree which I submit today to the validation of the House was published in the Official Gazette of the State. These are the Royal Decree-Law 5/2018, urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European Union data protection law. As you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, Parliament and Council regulations on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of their personal data and the free movement of such personal data have been directly applicable in Spain since 25 May this year. Ladies and gentlemen, this European legislation places us at the highest levels of data protection for individuals, citizens... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u3	One second, Minister. Ladies, I beg you, please, silence! There was a murmuring that made it impossible for the presidency to hear what the speaker said. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going on. Well, if that is the case, the European Data Protection Regulation directly applicable in Spain since 25 May 2018, here we have the Organic Law 15/1999, of 13 December, on the Protection of Personal Data. This is, ladies and gentlemen, our current rule. In order to adapt the Spanish legislation to the European Union regulation, this House, you, in November 2017, began the processing of a new organic law on the protection of personal data so that, once it was adopted, it would replace that of 1999. I am fully aware that the work to achieve this new standard of data protection is progressing very positively, and I would like from here to thank all groups for their willingness and work to get their approval as soon as possible. However, ladies and gentlemen, there have now been regulatory gaps arising from the coexistence of the European regulation and our national data protection standard. The regulation makes a profound change because it updates the legislation in the light of a new technological reality, not only from the substantive point of view and from the point of view of compliance of the persons bound, but particularly as regards the supervisory activity by the supervisory authorities regulated by the same regulation. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the full application of the regulation means that those provisions of national law which are not in conformity with the rules laid down by the regulation itself must be regarded as displaced, which are not repealed. On the other hand, there are many provisions of the regulation which refer their mandatory or potential development by Member States containing a total of fifty-six referrals to national legislation. Other provisions of this regulation require an adequacy of domestic law even if there is no direct and express reference to it. Thus, while the European regulation provides for a sanctioning regime which defines certain conducts, there are fundamental issues, such as the limitation periods for such offences, which are not covered by Spanish law. In this way, the Regulation also establishes a procedure for cooperation between Member States in the cases of processing of personal data called cross-border, and this involves the participation of all the authorities involved, but domestic law does not regulate how to articulate this participation. For these reasons, the Council of Ministers of 27 July last approved the royal decree that is submitted to debate today in the House and that has no other purpose than to adopt a rule with a law rank that allows to cover these legal gaps... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u5	Silence, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u6	Thank you, Madam President. ... and adapt Spanish law to the European regulation in order to effectively guarantee both legal certainty and citizens' rights as long as we have a new organic data protection law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about protecting citizens effectively and immediately. Specifically, the aim of this regulation is to bring our legislation into line with the European regulation in those areas which do not have the status of organic law but which do not allow any delay, and to ensure that internal rules are fully adapted - I repeat - to these standards set by the European Union through the regulation. There are two important aspects that I want to highlight here and now. First of all, the provisions of the royal decree are inspired and even literally transcribed the bill being processed in this House, it is fully adapted and in line with that bill. Secondly, as a matter of urgency, the validity of the rule is limited to the period from validation to the entry into force of the new organic law. These are therefore two aspects which your honourable Members must bear in mind in order to support this rule which is now being debated. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to elaborate briefly on the reasons for the urgency of the provisions contained in the rule that is being debated today. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, there are reasons relating to the functions of the supervisory and representation authorities in the European Committee. The European Regulation establishes a detailed catalogue of functions and powers of data protection authorities that far exceed those set out in our 1999 standard. In addition, it imposes on Member States which have several supervisory authorities, such as Spain, the obligation to appoint a representative... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u8	... in the European Data Protection Agency, it is therefore appropriate to adopt immediately a provision granting the Spanish Data Protection Agency the status of Spanish representative on that Committee. In this regard, it is also appropriate for the Spanish rule to recognise the powers of that supervisory authority. Finally, the reforms carried out will require ensuring both transparency in the functioning of the agency and legal certainty in this area, given that operators are aware of the supervisory authority's criterion. This would be a first block that would explain the urgency and need for the validation of the decree submitted to it. A second type of reason is related to the investigation proceedings of the Spanish Data Protection Agency. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that the powers of investigation of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data, ensuring that their exercise can, in fact, be developed, be incorporated into a legal authorization. Thus, it will be necessary to provide the staff of the agency carrying out the investigative work with powers to allow access to the various local data processing systems and also to regulate the manner in which such powers may be exercised. Ladies and gentlemen, the European regulation regulates joint investigation proceedings, in which, together with the investigating staff of the supervisory authority, staff and supervisory authorities from other Member States of the European Union would be involved. It is therefore necessary to include in our legislation provisions determining the rules applicable to such investigative staff from other Member States and also the scope of their powers. In addition, this adaptation should be made as soon as possible to ensure that this status applicable to staff from other Member States has been established before any joint research activity is carried out, which can occur at any time because this can already be done since 25 May 2018. A third block that I would like to tell you about the importance, necessity and urgency of the validation of this royal decree-law refers to the sanctioning regime, which has a special practical effect. This royal decree adapts our order to the new sanctioning regime established in the European regulation, replacing the types of offenders currently contained in the Organic Law on Data Protection of 1999. There are two issues on which the adoption of provisions by domestic law that guarantee the effectiveness of the sanctioning regime, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty, is inescapable. The first question is to determine which subjects may incur responsibilities arising from the application of that sanctioning regime, who may be subject to infringement. And the second, which is essential, is to determine the limitation periods for infringements and penalties provided for in the European standard. It is also important to determine the penalties to be applied to offenders. With regard to the limitation of infringements, the European legislator has considered time limits to be a substantive issue that is subject to the domestic law of States. It is therefore the States that must set these limitation periods. A gap at such a sensitive point as the limitation period for infringements could lead to enormous uncertainty and thus to an increase in litigation. Moreover, it would diminish the ability of the Spanish Data Protection Agency to act in the face of the lack of certainty about the time to initiate a sanctioning procedure. The current Spanish data protection legislation provides for a duration of the sanction procedure of six months, which may be preceded by pre-investigation proceedings with a maximum duration of twelve months. We are talking about six months with a possibility of pre-investigating twelve months, taking into account that the current procedures may be of particular complexity, given that data processing may be cross-border in nature. Ladies and gentlemen, given that only the initiation of the sanctioning procedure can be a valid cause of interruption of the prescription, there is great uncertainty if clear deadlines are not established, as is done by the actual decree submitted to you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u9	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u10	The text proposed here today sets only two limitation periods of two and three years, distinguishing only the conduct in response to the maximum amount of sanctions provided for in the European Regulation. In addition, it is envisaged that, before notifying third authorities from other countries that might be able to analyse the draft initiating agreement, the alleged offender will be transferred for the purpose of interrupting the limitation, so and so that the inclusion in the calculation of the period of time during which the review may take place by the other authorities that may review the initiation of the procedure would be avoided within that period of interruption or limitation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a vital, vital, urgent and necessary issue. There are also other reasons which justify the urgency of this rule and which are related to the procedures and application of procedural rules. At this point it is necessary to clarify and take into account that the European Regulation distinguishes three types of data processing: data with a cross-border route, data with a cross-border route of local, national and exclusively national relevance. In addition, a second question concerning the role of the national authority involved in the procedure must be taken into account of these three types of treatment, for which purpose it is necessary to determine which main national authority will bear the burden of the procedure and to differentiate it from the other authorities, which will have the status of interested, not the principal ones. Having regard to these necessary considerations, it should be noted that the system provided for in the European Regulation provides for up to seven possible differentiated procedures in which the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data may intervene. Each of these seven procedures has a number of procedural specialties. There are some procedures that are common but there is a great variety of procedural. This requires the incorporation into the procedure of specific stages, such as admission to the proceedings of claims or the possibility of provisional filing of the file. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary that a rule with a law rank establish the basic peculiarities of the procedure to be processed by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data as an exception to the general regime of the Law of Administrative Procedure. The specialities of the procedural regime of the regulation, together with the fact that special procedures of importance under this regime have already been put in place, entail the urgent and urgent need for the rules providing for the specialities of the procedure in case of infringement of the Union regulation to be incorporated into our law. In any event, I would insist, ladies and gentlemen, that the urgency of adopting these procedural rules is justified by the fact that any complaint lodged since 25 May 2018 is subject to the aforementioned regime, so that, even in the case of a clearly local treatment - referring to the distinction that previously made to them - the Spanish Data Protection Agency should check whether there is no principal authority other than another Member State that could decide on the handling of the case. It has an essential significance, ladies and gentlemen. Finally - and this is the last reason I am going to explain about urgency and necessity - I am going to refer to contracts for the processing of personal data. In this regard, it is necessary to adopt a provision granting legal certainty to operators in the processing of such personal data. Legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to contracts for the current treatment, whose material and formal regime has been modified as a result of the entry into force of the European Regulation in May 2018... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u11	Quiet, please. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u12	Thank you, Madam President. In this regard, it should be noted that the figure of the controller appears in all cases where a controller contracts with a third party a service involving the latter's access to personal data. This means that, in many cases, the same controller has outsourced its services to dozens and even hundreds of data controllers. For this reason, it is even more necessary to clarify the consequences of the entry into force of the European Regulation in relation, in particular, to those contracts which have been in force since 25 May, I repeat, when the direct application of the European Data Protection Regulation takes place. Therefore - I repeat - the need for the adoption of this provision in an urgent way is clear, ladies and gentlemen, since if this provision is not adopted as soon as possible, those responsible would lack a criterion of legal certainty to know whether or not the contracts in force on 25 May 2018 are in line with the European legislation already in force. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need this rule to cover the empty spaces that have been created by the direct application of the European Personal Data Protection Regulation and the current and current Organic Law of 1999 until the new organic regulation in which work is being done in this House is finally adopted. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your understanding, your willingness to achieve this objective among all of you, requesting, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, the vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law which is being debated today. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u13	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Justice. At the end of May, the General Data Protection Regulation came into force, which deepens the protection and control of personal information and has, among other things, a main objective, such as that of each user knowing how their personal data are processed and who makes use of them. Since then, criteria have been set that allow us to demand the deletion of this data or its rectification between different normative aspects that deepen a subject on which we have had abundant and very recent examples with global scandals that have revealed the vulnerability of users to large companies that handle their data with all kinds of intentions, notably commercial ones and also policies, even with interference in democratic electoral processes after massive data theft, as today is reflected in the entire international press. [[The lady]] This royal decree-law abounds in the development of data protection based on the referrals that are imposed by Spain's membership of the European Union and that will undoubtedly have room and development in the future organic law, which, as the Minister has recalled, is being processed in the General Courts since last November and which passed the procedure of the whole here, in the Plenary of the Congress, in mid-February. An organic law on the protection of personal data in which it is for us Spanish legislators to take the initiative to equip us with agile tools that update the fulfilment of one of the fundamental rights of our Constitution and that are reflected in their mandate to limit the use of computer technology, to guarantee the personal and family honour and privacy of citizens and the full exercise of their rights, as expressly mentioned in article 18.4. This royal decree-law, whose validation I will vote in favour, anticipates at European level adaptations to regulations that are imperative and inexcusable, but the need to do so calls us to agility in the processing of the law in the relevant Committee of Justice, currently in its process of amendments. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. New political course and new repressive escalation against mayors and mayors for defending democracy on October 1. New political course and political prisoners remain in pre-trial detention without trial, without sentence, while members of La Manada remain free or even one of them working for the State security forces. A new political course and the Government has shown itself to be kidnapped by the extreme right, changing the criteria, paying more than EUR 500 000 to defend Judge Llarena in Belgium, moving from the perception of a matter as a private one, through whose conference he perceived some emoluments, to the view of it as a matter of State. All this is a short and brief account of the existence of the Socialist Government. In addition, the successive Governments of Spain have not been diligent on the substance and the form and respect of legality, in this case the European one. The urgency of this royal decree, which has come to you as a result of the inaction of the right-wing bench, must have failed, once again, to comply with the European mandate so that Spanish legislation can be brought into line at all times with European legislation. Spain - I would like to recall - is the state of the European Union with the most sanctions for non-compliance in transposing European directives and laws. Those who boast so much of demanding compliance with the law start by applying the story. We therefore continue to witness the decadence of the rule of law in Spain. We will not oppose this process, we will not oppose this new patch, but these attitudes feed us and encourage us to continue to fight democratically for a state for Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro i Buldo. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u18	Thank you very much, President. The Royal Decree-Law 5/2018 on the adoption of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to Union legislation on the protection of personal data is presented to us for validation, which should have been concluded in the General Courts and published and entered into force before 25 May, which was the date on which Regulation 2016/679 of the Parliament and Council was fully applicable; Union regulation which, although in accordance with the Treaty of Functioning has general scope, obliges in all its elements and is directly applicable in each Member State without the need for incorporation by domestic law, nevertheless contains in any of its regulations powers under the law of the Member States to develop them. This circumstance, coupled with the duty of certainty towards the legal operators regarding the applicable law, is the one that underpins the approval and, on our part, that of the Basque Parliamentary Group, the vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, which will be valid exclusively until the time when the Courts approve the organic bill that is being processed in the Justice Commission and that, as I said, we should have completed the work, approved and published last May. In this sense, it is a transit rule. For our part, we understand that the matters dealt with in the decree-law do not go beyond the constitutional limitation on the matters that the decree-law has sealed by its organic reserve of rank. It is a matter, as the explanatory memorandum states, and at the time this Basque Parliamentary Group was informed, not to deal with aspects concerned by the fundamental right to personal privacy such as personal data, as stated in article 18.4 of the Constitution and has established the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, but to clarify temporarily aspects that do not admit delay and without reservation of organic law, but with reservation of material or formal law for which it permits the aforementioned regulation of the Union and provided that, as I said, they do not claim or do not affect an organic sphere. This is true of certain aspects of cross-border procedures, precisely those in which a subject processes data under the supervision of different supervisory authorities, in which it is necessary to specify how the internal law of the State will be affected by the procedures provided for in the regulation, such as the admission or grounds for suspension during the processing between different supervisory authorities in order to ensure that the procedures do not lapse; or the time limits for the limitation of infringements; or the determination of the current sanctioning regime because it repealed the one in force until last May; or the powers and legal regime of the staff of the State agency in its investigative and supervisory work, as well as of the staff of other agencies or supervisory authorities in those joint investigative activities, precisely in which I have called cross-border procedures. We believe that the clarification of these issues did not allow any delay in the implementation of the general regulation, which entered into force on 25 May, and that since that date it is already domestic law, so there are already procedures open to it and under way in the Union, many of them cross-border and involving citizens of the Spanish State. Also because it was necessary to determine within the State the body or agency that would be the representative on the European Data Protection Committee and without prejudice to the fact that this authorization to the agency would undermine the obligation to inform the autonomous control authorities of the decisions taken, as well as to seek advice in matters within their competence and to establish the criteria that will publicise the decisions of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the light of the new regulatory framework. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing, Madam President - the Basque Parliamentary Group considers that the decree-law we are debating meets the demands of Article 86 of the Constitution of extraordinary and urgent necessity and without affecting matters and aspects reserved for organic law within a shorter time than the one required, even for the processing of a draft law by the urgency procedure, in order - all this - to purify the precautionary right and to undertake the developments indicated by the Union's regulation and permitted by it so that the rights of European citizens to the protection of their privacy, exposed through their personal data, do not have gaps and until the Courts approve the regulation currently under way in the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Today, a year ago, the Catalan Parliament opened itself up to the debate on the right to decide on Catalans and Catalans. Our Speaker of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell, continues unjustly deprived of liberty only for allowing a debate on the referendum and thus defending the rights of all Members of Parliament. This does not happen in any democratic country. [[Applauds]] A year ago. Having said that, as always we are late and we are late because the People's Party did not do the duties at the time. The People's Party introduced a draft organic law on the protection of personal data without taking into account the order of distribution of competences established in the Constitution and in the statutes of autonomy and completely ignoring the scope of action of the Catalan Authority of Protection of Dades. If it were for the People's Party, it would centralize all the powers in the Spanish Data Protection Agency, far beyond what would strictly be necessary in accordance with the European regulation. But as the saying goes, it is better late than never, so, although we do not share the urgency and need to process the royal decreeley, we can come to understand the reasons. The Royal Decree-Law provides, inter alia, as the Minister has said, for the limitation and expiry of sanctions and, in particular with regard to cross-border cases, we believe that the Government is particularly concerned. We must remember to make it clear that the Generalitat of Catalonia through the Catalan Data Protection Authority has all the competences in this field of data protection. Why do I insist on it? Because we have cross-border cases and we must regulate them well because, firstly, the time has come for an alleged cross-border case, the Catalan authority may also be able to act and, secondly, since Catalonia has all the powers in this area not only the Spanish agency has a duty to inform us, but also we must have the right to express our views. The latter is because the second paragraph of the first additional provision of the Royal Decree-Law tells us that the Spanish Data Protection Agency will inform the autonomous authorities of the decisions taken in the European Data Protection Committee and will seek their opinion when matters within its competence are concerned. With regard to 'he will obtain his opinion when it comes to matters within his competence', I would like to insist that Catalonia has all of them, so he must seek the opinion of Catalonia always and also from the rest of the autonomous authorities. It must also inform us of the agenda of the European Committee, the planned initiatives, the matters discussed in that body, resolutions, reports, opinions and other positions adopted. We have a feeling that what will happen in the future is that we will not be asked for our opinion for everything. For us, therefore, it is important to bear in mind what our position and request is because the words are then carried by the wind. For Esquerra Republicana it is very important to regulate the right to protection of personal data. It is a right that implies not only that it is possible to impose on third parties the duty to refrain from any interference in the intimate sphere of the person, but that goes much further and is based on the power to have personal data. It is a law that affects us all as citizens and consumers because it aims to guarantee the rights of people and, therefore, also the foundations of a democratic society. Therefore, our parliamentary group will be very attentive, as it has been doing so far, following very closely the implementation of this Royal Decree-Law, as well as the amendment of the Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to return to this rostrum. Let us go ahead with a cordial greeting to all and my wish that we have a fruitful session. We discussed the validation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2018 of 27 July of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European Union data protection law. I understand that it can be an arduous matter, even unattractive if we compare it to others, but it is of great importance. I also said that it is an honour to intervene in this debate because of the fact that of the seven decrees of this quarter this is one of the few that is not a decree of Mr Sánchez's Government. [[Applauds]] Here the enabling budget set out in our Constitution is fulfilled: there is an extraordinary and urgent need. As you know, the direct application of the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council began last 25 May and I am sure you have not forgotten the date, I am sure you have not forgotten your collapsed mail accounts, blocked by that huge amount of messages asking you to review privacy policies and asking you to renew your consent to the processing of your personal data as if there were no tomorrow. Surely you did not remember that you had registered on so many websites providing your personal data. They will even remember that they circulated and we received some memes on the matter that had some grace. And if I recall these anecdotes, I do so so that they understand the scope and importance of data protection and the impact of direct application of the European regulation. And I say it well: direct application. Because the regulation had already entered into force two years earlier, in 2016, but the government of President Rajoy, the conservative government of the People's Party did not do the duties in time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u23	Excuse me, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u24	He said that the conservative government of the People's Party did not do its duties in time and because of the late arrival in this House the organic bill continues to be processed. The reason why we are today faced with the need to adopt this transitional rule is nothing other than the inaction of the People's Party when it comes to government. At this point, allow me to make a parenthesis to acknowledge the previous work of the rapporteurs, before the presentation is held, to pave the way for this rule, which obviously has a much more technical than political character and to clear up that forest of 369 amendments which have been submitted to the joint text. A work that despite the logical differences is bearing fruit and achieving progress that will allow us to pass the new organic law of data protection sooner than later. I must also point out that the Socialist Party introduced by way of amendment, in a surprising way, a whole new title that is delaying this work. Until that happens, until the organic law is passed, it is essential and urgent to regulate certain contents that have no organic law reserve. So far there has been a legal vacuum in the sanctioning regime of the European regulation which should be supplemented by the internal rules of each country as it does not include such essential aspects as the delimitation of subjects who may incur liability, the investigation procedure or the limitation periods. All aspects that are fundamental and relevant to the effective guarantee of the right to data protection. Citizens are also a party with a clear European vocation and we believe that we are facing an appropriate instrument to prevent this right from being left without protection, without the umbrella of the European regulation. It is then recognized that this is an interim rule that is consistent with the raison d'être of a real-decree law - extraordinary and urgent necessity - and that is issued pending the completion of the organic law process. It will therefore count on our vote in favour. In any case the important thing is not the decree that we are going to validate today, the important thing is the organic law that we will pass shortly and there we will be firm and defend our convictions so that the Agency for Data Protection does not become a political chiringuite more. [[Applauds]] A political chiringuite in which to place high positions based on the fingers to which Mr Sánchez has us accustomed. We want it to be an institution that enjoys true independence. Also so that, according to that Europeanist vocation to which I referred earlier, we make a law with the utmost respect for the regulation so that it has consistency and homogeneity with the rest of the countries of the European Union; coherence and homogeneity which are important, which are essential to guarantee this right and to do so without damaging or hindering the competitiveness of our companies. I conclude not without expressing my surprise at the intervention of the spokespersons of the Republican Left and the PDeCAT precisely in this debate today, which deals with data protection and privacy. You, Esquerra Republicana and PDeCAT, formed a government of the Generalitat that traded with the data of millions of Catalans to make an illegal referendum, which spied on politicians, businessmen and citizens. [[applause]] [[Applause.- Denials]] Yes, to my comrades and comrades from the rest of the democratic parties. And a government that made, and perhaps does, lists of those that you consider 'bad' - in quotes - Catalan, with names and surnames. So, since you've lost your way, don't at least lose your decorum and think twice before going down to this rostrum to teach us the Democrats. [[Applauds]] I finish now, but I would like to remind the Government that we are still waiting for another decree, a very simple one. It has only two articles: in the first it dissolves these Courts and in the second it calls elections. That is the decree that most Spaniards are expecting from this Government. Thank you very much. [[Mrs Ciuro i Buldó asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. Mrs Ciuro, for what purposes do you ask for the floor, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u26	I am asking for the floor under Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask comrade Gómez Balsera to withdraw the words he has said about the Government of Catalonia, since there is absolutely no accusation in relation to what he has said, and we are defending the honourability of the Generalitat and its Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u27	Mr. Gómez Balsera, do you withdraw any of those words?
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u28	I have merely quoted news that has appeared in public media, which we all know, so I do not think I should withdraw it. In addition, the dignity of millions of Catalans prevents me... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u29	Mr. Gómez Balsera is only for the purpose of responding. Thank you very much. Mr Sixto has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that there are few legislative texts of which the majority of the population have been informed as much as the entry into force of the European Union Regulation, 679 of 2016. Indeed, as Mr Gómez Balsera said, there were thousands and thousands of emails that were crossed from all over the world warning of the entry into force of this regulation; a regulation that carries the billing date of 2016. However, we are here with a royal decree-law because this House has not legislated in time and form sufficiently for the time of the coming into force of this royal decree, which was last May 25th. Why is there such a circumstance? There are certainly a number of reasons. This parliamentary group understands, Minister, that this royal decree is in line with Article 86 of our Constitution: there is an urgent need to legislate in this area. It does not invade the powers vetoed by the second paragraph of this article to the Government to regulate this way. My parliamentary group is not going to ask for its processing as a bill because we believe that we are already processing a bill. A bill that entered this House in November last year. It came from a government of the People's Party and, as we stand, even though it had to be dealt with with with a certain speed, this House has not been able to take it forward. Where are the causes of this? I'd like to get into this a little bit. Indeed, the Government of the People's Party was delayed. As I said, the regulation is for 2016 and until November 2017 the bill does not enter the House. And since November of last year here, what's happened? For it has been two months since they were competent for parliamentary work, January and July, something which is enshrined in the Constitution but which is difficult to understand for the majority of citizens who, at best, have only one month's vacation in August. We have had three in which there has been no ordinary parliamentary activity, although it is true that the House at certain times of need has enabled January and July to work. What else happened? That there has been a change of government and the leadership of the project by the People's Party has become its task to push it forward to the Socialist Party; however, the House has worked. The rapporteurs of the new law have worked, we have progressed in the amendments, we have progressed the work, we have the will and hope to take that bill out of this House in a few weeks' time and send it to the Senate and it can enter into force before the end of the year. But, indeed, there is a gap in a number of issues, such as their limitation periods or cross-border processes, which need to be regulated. We have a problem with how we discuss the laws in this House, and not only with this bill or with this royal decree that we validate today, and to which my parliamentary group will vote in favour, but there are other bills whose handling is totally incomprehensible to anyone. I am talking, for example, of the Statute of Valencian Autonomy, which has been debated three times in this House, for three times!, which has been paralysed since 2016, which has extended the deadline for amendments, I do not know how many times, the deadline for amendments has been closed, and now it turns out that we are awaiting the Presidency of the House and the Bureau - to which I ask you to adopt the corresponding agreement as quickly as possible - to interpret that this reform of the Statute of Valencian Autonomy has to go through the 151 and not through the ordinary way, which was originally provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the House. Or what about the Law gag, which has also been waiting for for me for a long time, I don't know how long and on which it has been committed until the spur of convening the paper at the beginning of September and devocating it I don't know if twenty-four hours later or a few hours later, without we still have the call of the paper, which the president of the Interior Commission has to do, to discuss the Law gag. Responsibilities of this legislative failure of a House, of a General Courts, which has only been able to draw nineteen texts from ordinary laws in three years and three texts from organic laws? For you to spread your responsibilities with affection and care, especially because we do not govern this House among all, it is governed by a Bureau which has a certain composition between two groups which have the majority to decide ultimately on the regulation and the impetus of the legislative process; a legislative process which, I say, is rather a part of this legislature. Let us apply not only to the governments that have delayed the entry into this House of the relevant bills but also to the groups that govern this House, see the People's Party and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the legislative delays. In the meantime, we are talking about non-legislative proposals that are of little use or, in the worst case scenario, we are working to curtail the capacity of this House of Government Control or the control of the head of State, as it was just a few days ago, by vetoing the initiative of our parliamentary group to investigate not the circumstances of the current head of State, the current King, but the former head of State, the exroy, which, in theory, should no longer be of such concern to this House, or at least to the groups that have vetoed that proposal, to investigate what he has done or stopped doing with the heritage he has in Spain or abroad. My group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree but, of course, it also urges the House to improve the number of legal texts we are able to make. It's not that little work is done, but we certainly don't work as well as we should. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto Iglesias. Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons put forward today by the Minister of Justice from this rostrum undoubtedly justify the urgency and necessity of Decree-Law 5/2018. The Socialist Group associates itself with its positive vote on its validation and welcomes the broad support announced by the parliamentary groups. We do not want to pry more than necessary into the reasons that have forced the Government to pass this decree-law but, for the truth, it must be remembered that its ultimate cause lies in the delay of the Government of the People's Party in presenting the draft law on data protection, which is currently being processed by Parliament. We denounced this in February in the full debate, since the European regulation was adopted in April 2016, Spain was to pass its adaptation law before 25 May this year, therefore, two years of deficiency, but the Government of the People's Party did not refer the bill to this House until November 2017. Eighteen months wasted. Just five months to pass an organic law clearly impossible if we take account of its mandatory bicameral processing and the amendments tabled, no more than nearly four hundred partial amendments. I repeat, it is not the intention of this group to look to the past today, but rather to celebrate the unequivocal will of the parliamentary groups to move decisively towards the processing of the bill and to validate the present decree today. The adoption of this decree-law was indispensable and did not allow delay. The entry into force of the European regulation and its sanctioning regime on 25 May created in our country a risk of impunity that we could not afford. The application of our administrative sanctioning procedure without adapting it to the unique features of the European regulation threatened to create an undesirable area of impunity. As the Minister has rightly stated here today, the complex, lengthy and lengthy processing of cross-border procedures required immediate adaptation of our administrative rules. In particular, the absence of specific rules on the limitation of infringements and sanctions meant that these procedures would not culminate in time and form and would go unpunished. We could not look elsewhere and allow violations of the regulations to run the risk of not having the punitive reaction they deserve. All this for the sake of legal certainty and the protection of a fundamental right, the fundamental right to data protection, and also for the sake of preserving the prestige consolidated for decades by our country in the vanguard and leadership in the protection of personal data in Europe. This decree-law has not gone further than indispensable, and the bill's rapporteurs know it well. It merely reproduces provisions of the draft law that were not amended or, where appropriate, merited minimal partial amendments that enjoy broad parliamentary support and, of course, as it could not be otherwise, does not affect aspects linked to the essential content of fundamental law. This decree is limited to regulating indispensable aspects of the investigative and sanctioning procedure of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, which, by the way, should be remembered here today, from its independence and better technical criterion, has encouraged the adoption of this decree-law. And, ladies and gentlemen, as a manifestation of this Government's scrupulous respect for the legislative role of the General Courts, it should be stressed that this decree provides for its repeal when the law approved by the General Courts reaches the State's Official Gazette. All of this, we understand, explains the majority of Parliament's support for the validation of the decree, to which we must add, and we want to highlight it, without a doubt, the excellent readiness to the agreement of the rapporteurs of all the groups. Thanks to that attitude, this House could be in a position to complete its work in the coming weeks. This consensus could lead to a notable improvement of the bill that entered the House last November, respecting the European framework, without unwanted excesses, increasing the protection of minors, guaranteeing medical research, modernising the structure and organization of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, preserving with pulcritity the role of the autonomous authorities or prestige the new figure of the data protection delegate. We can say here today that, if the agreements already reached by the groups are confirmed, we will adopt a new law on data protection that will respond with ambition and height to the significance of the technological transformations that surround today's society. And we will not only strengthen the fundamental right to data protection; our group also welcomes the willingness of many groups to address the new challenges posed by digitization. We are in a position to fulfil the mandate of our Constitution to ensure the full exercise of the right of citizens to what the constitutional text calls the use of computer science and which we now know as digital reality. This Parliament is in a position to establish a digital rights guarantee system that responds to the risks and opportunities that the network world offers, ensures the effectiveness of rights on the Internet and promotes the equality and full exercise of fundamental rights in the digital reality. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, new digital rights: right to work disconnection, right of universal access to the Internet without gaps, right to education and digital training, protection of minors, right to forget, right to privacy in the workplace, right to portability, right to the digital will, a major challenge that the concert, agreement and consensus of this House can make possible. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Rallo Lombarte. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Government is now submitting to the plenary of the Congress of Deputies the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 5/2018 of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European Union data protection legislation. I would like to inform you that, in the case of this decree-law, the position of the People's Parliamentary Group will be favourable to validation, and mainly for two reasons. First of all - and this is something exceptional - because we understand that in this case - I insist, something exceptional - the reasons for the extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86 of our Constitution do exist. Notice, in view of the use - or rather abuse - of an exceptional instrument by the Government, such as the decree-law, in view of the flagrant breach of its constitutional limits in many other cases that its lords know very well, this decree-law is, of course, a rare exception in a desolating panorama of disrespect for constitutional procedures. Secondly, we will support the validation of this decree-law because, frankly, we are concerned and we feel that this matter of the protection of rights in the field of the use of data is important, and I say this because in the interventions of the spokespersons of other parliamentary groups everything has been talked about, even the Law on Citizen Security has been talked about the Statute of Autonomy of Valencia. Well, perhaps you have nothing to say about this subject, but we do think that this is one of the areas in which we play a lot on the status of citizens' rights in the twenty-first century and we play a lot on the adaptation of those old fundamental rights to new aggressions and threats. Look, one of the Internet parents, Tim Berners-Lee, Prince of Asturias Award in 2002, said in 2011 that data would be the new raw material of the 21st century, and I think that this somehow described the direction our societies were heading. Well, being that true, it is also true that threats grow exponentially and risks increase. Today it can be argued in some studies that by 2021 25% of personal data from around the world will be compromised. In this digital society citizens are exposed every day to fraudulent uses, to misuse of their personal data, to intolerable intrusions into privacy and privacy spaces that need to be protected by procedures appropriate to the magnitude of threats. That is why the legal regime for the protection of personal data is primarily a source of rights for citizens and is therefore a priority for the People's Parliamentary Group. In accordance with that priority we have always acted and with that same sense of institutional responsibility we will support this decree-law, although we are clearly aware that emergency legislation is not the optimal instrument in this area and that what we should do is complete the parliamentary process of the bill. I cannot deny that a broad consensus is being forged among the parliamentary groups on this matter, which is very healthy, but I cannot share the accusations made to the People's Party Government, which cannot always be the explanation that we have been in this House for ten months with the bill and that we have not passed it; we cannot always be referring to the presentation of this bill, which also has sufficient explanations that your ladies and gentlemen know very well. I cannot fail to point out at this point that the handling of the draft law would have been much more agile if we had limited ourselves to the matter really concerned with the submission of amendments, that is to say to the personal data protection regime, and if this legislative initiative had not been used to regulate issues that are completely unrelated to data protection, as the Socialist Group did when introducing a new title on an issue that has nothing to do with the personal data protection regime. I can agree that it is necessary to improve the protection of citizens in the digital society - it is true, perhaps we have to regulate new content and new rights - but I think it is a profound mistake to do so in a bill in which it was very easy to delimit, around the protection of personal data, its content and, in this way, to speed up its processing. Mr Rallo, you are well aware that the inclusion of foreign content to the subject of the initiative is an example of bad legislative technique and that it has also led to a regrettable delay in the processing of the bill, which must be our priority. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that since 25 May the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union has been directly applicable in Spain, which is an important amendment to the previous legislation which has consequences for citizens, for those responsible for processing personal data and for regulators. For elementary reasons, this matter can no longer be regulated only by national legislation, since the processing of personal data has a transnational dimension and requires uniform responses and consensual responses from international organizations and regional organizations. The development of rights, the regime of obligations and the intervention of the supervisory authorities in this matter will never be only Spanish law, but are governed directly by the European standard which, for the first time, develops a fundamental right, a right recognised in Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 18.4 of our Constitution. The European regulation is a real paradigm shift in many respects and this requires a complex adaptation of our legal culture in aspects as relevant as sanctioning procedures. Well, given the impossibility of finalizing the draft law before the date of entry into force of the regulation, it was the Spanish Data Protection Agency that proposed to the Government the need to pass this royal decree-law, a rule with a law rank, on an extraordinary and urgent basis to allow the Spanish law to be adapted to the regulation in matters where waiting for the adoption of the new law could have harmful effects. We therefore understand that this is a rule that introduces legal certainty, guarantees and better protection of rights, and with those coordinates, legal certainty, guarantees and protection of rights, the People's Parliamentary Group will be part of the consensus and solution. I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by conveying from this rostrum the recognition of my parliamentary group for the work carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency's professionals, as well as the congratulations to all the team that leads Mar España on its daily work in an essential area to guarantee the rights of people in the digital society. Of these, it is to a large extent the merit that this change in our legal culture in the protection of personal data is carried out correctly. Its contribution has been decisive in guiding the work of this House in this area. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Vázquez. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to express the Government's appreciation for the consensus found in the validation of this decree which grants and confers legal certainty and which also benefits citizens' rights. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 6/2018, OF 27 JULY, APPROVING AN OFFER OF FOREIGN AND ADDITIONAL PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT FOR THE REFERENCE OF MEDIA TO ASYLATE AND REFUGEES. [[File number 130/000033]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u38	We proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 6/2018 of 27 July, approving an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment for the reinforcement of means in the care of asylum seekers and refugees. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u39	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum today to present and present the Royal Decree-Law 6/2018 of 27 July, approving an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment for the reinforcement of the means in the care of asylum seekers and refugees, and which must be validated - as you all know - by this House, by the Congress of Deputies. The tragic reality that some countries not so far away are experiencing, such as Syria, Palestine and Ukraine, or some African States, has largely transformed the reality of those who intend to enter Spain. If the number of asylum seekers and asylum seekers has traditionally been residual in our country, in recent years that situation has changed and Spain has become one of the gateways to the European Union for those who demand protection from the actions of their own governments. Our duty and obligation as a democratic and legal country is to respect and defend the international conventions on the right to asylum and the protection of refugees. Our Constitution recognizes that right to all persons in its article 13 and therefore requires all public authorities to give effect to that right. It is not a question of extending or developing rights; it is a question of strict compliance with the Constitution and international treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, more than 15 thousand asylum applications were lodged. In 2017 it was double, more than thirty thousand. The means of administration, on the other hand, were practically the same, raising the already considerable expectations in the processing of such demands. The Minister of the Interior brought this forward a few days ago when he appeared before the Committee on the Interior: The Office of Asylum and Refugee, under the Ministry itself, suffers a considerable delay in the processing of petitions, given the exponential increase in applications, and it is expected that we will find ourselves at the end of the year with fifty thousand dossiers to be resolved. The Asylum and Refugee Office already needed additional resources; the extraordinary increase in applications over the past year has made this situation completely unsustainable, with serious danger to the above-mentioned rights. It is this situation that required a response that the Government has taken on by adopting, on 27 July, the Decree-Law of extraordinary public offer, which today is submitted to this House for consideration. I would like to stress to your ladies and gentlemen the extraordinary nature of this situation and the needs arising therefrom and the significant delay in the processing of applications resulting from the increase in the number of applications submitted. The proper analysis and evaluation of asylum claims requires sufficient personal resources from the Administration, without which the right to international protection of applicants is jeopardized and the effective application of our legislation and migration policy is also weakened. This has been repeatedly pointed out by non-governmental organizations working in this area, including Intermon Oxfam, Amnesty International and especially those working more directly with the Administration, such as the Red Cross or CEAR. As you know, within the General Administration of the State, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the processing and resolution of applications and for the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security, in coordination with the Ministry of the Interior, for the reception of asylum-seekers and refugees with the support of the specialized organizations; organizations which, in turn, are coordinated in each area with the autonomous and local administrations that have places for reception and assistance. Accordingly, the 323 additional places to offer public employment this year, which are incorporated through this royal decree law, are distributed between the Ministry of the Interior, with 231 places of access per free shift, and the Ministry of Labour, with 92 more places per free shift. In this way, an extraordinary offer is added to the public employment offer for the 2018 financial year to adequately equip this set of sectors that, as has been said, are key to the need to improve the reception system to boost it as a fair, inclusive and efficient system. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not only a measure of the Government, it is also a measure demanded from the third sector by the aforementioned non-governmental organisations and endorsed also by the trade unions. The three most representative unions in the field of the General Administration of the State, that is, CSIF, Workers' Commissions and UGT, together with CIGA, agreed and signed the package of which this decree-law formed part, which included the approval itself of a particularly ambitious public employment offer for 2018, some measures to stabilize public employment and the recovery of protection from situations of temporary disability. I dare say that the measure which is submitted for adoption today is also a measure that responds to the sensitivity and solidarity of the Spanish population. We hope that it will also have the support of the whole House, as the urgent and necessary nature of the measures to be taken is rarely as clear as in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, the deterioration of the situation of fundamental rights in relatively close countries puts us in the face of a responsibility that we want to exercise together with the rest of the States of the European Union. I believe that all groups can agree that each Member State of the Union must be able to effectively manage the requests it receives. To that end, the decree-law is addressed, for which I am asking today to confirm its vote, which is only the fulfilment of our international, constitutional commitments and, if I may, of the minimum solidarity required of the countries of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. The extraordinary call for the 2017 public offer of employment presented by President Rajoy's government was supported by the Socialist Group in this House. I would also like to thank all groups today, including the People's Group, for the same responsible support for a proposal that is, as well as a government option, the fulfilment of a constitutional mandate and the response to a special sensitivity of our society. Thank you so much. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. At the time of the fixing of positions, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor first, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service. The reinforcement of staff proposed by the Government through the Royal Decree-Law brings back to the House the migration policy on which last week was debated by triple party here in the Congress of Deputies, first in the Permanent Chamber and later in the appearances of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Labour, Migration and Social Security, a matter undoubtedly fundamental, capital, for our country. The so-called migratory pressure has had in the course of the year, and particularly during this summer, episodes sufficiently expressive and significant to justify the adoption of extraordinary measures for the strengthening of human resources in the care of asylum-seekers and refugees. The validation of this royal decree-law, which I will support with my vote, cannot hide, however, the misadjustment of the immigration policy of this government over these three months and peak of management, because, minister, it has nothing to do with the inheritance received to which appeals the text of the royal decree-law itself with the episode of political marketing starring the president of the government authorizing for humanitarian reasons and in application of international law the entry into the port of Valencia of the ship Aquarius loaded with shipwrecks, to deny it two months later despite that it was closer to the Spanish coasts. It seems that international law no longer suited Mr Sánchez, who by then had already agreed with the French President, Mr Macron, on the proposal for controlled centres to confine migrants, which not a few lawyers and experts have described as illegal. There is a growing trafficking of human beings into Spain and the proliferation of mafias does not bode well for the better times, in view of the Government's leaflets. In any case, as I said before, I will support the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. I shall first announce the meaning of our vote. We are going to abstain not because the measure is negative, but because we believe it is clearly insufficient. I believe that in order to understand this question that we raise, the first thing that needs to be done is to answer one question: have all the denials of asylum or refugee status in the Spanish State been due solely to the lack of staff or a restrictive reading of refugee status and the right to asylum? We believe that it is really this second one that has caused so many permits to be refused. We and we are more in agreement with more current definitions because we believe that it is about extending rights - unlike the minister - and developing them. Definitions such as those that made, for example, Raquel Celis or Xabier Aierdi, two Basques who said something like that forced displacement would be the involuntary change of the place of residence of a person or group of persons being forced to flee as a result of a serious or sustained and systematic violation of human rights - including civilians, political, economic, social and cultural - or a massive violation of human rights, widespread violence, armed conflict, natural or human-induced disasters and disasters and the implementation of large-scale development projects. But they also said that those who have migrated for any other cause but are at risk of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment should they be returned to their countries of origin or to third countries are considered forced displacement. It was not the lack of personnel that caused all persons returned hot a few days ago in the Melilla fence to be rejected because they did not fulfil that condition, but because they did not even consider whether they could comply with the right of asylum or refugee status. We believe that there are substantive measures that could be implemented more quickly and that would be more important, for example, the progressive cessation of the military industry or that the Spanish State controls and obliges transnational corporations, investment funds and speculative corporations to subject their activities to strict compliance with international human rights law, or that the trade and investment agreements and treaties endorsed by the Spanish State respect international human rights law, labour law, international environmental law, sovereignty of peoples or the rights of peasants. I'm done. That is probably the case, with these measures, together with the one he has proposed but with much more ambitious ones, it would end with those perverse speeches that the far right launches and that encourage xenophobia, that speak of the so-called effect; an effect that, in any case, if the ghost of the so-called effect had occurred, would have occurred centuries ago, during the colonization and during the systematic expoliation to which those countries have been subjected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u45	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in March 1939 thousands of people left the ports of Valencia and Alacant in the direction of Oran, Algeria, fleeing the brutal repression unleashed by that bloody dictator whose remains still rest in a public space, with an improper pump from a democratic state. The people who arrived there were interned by the French authorities in poor conditions and many of them found death because of torture and forced labour. But there appeared a charitable person, an elderly French citizen, Madam Martínez, with Spanish ascendants, who dedicated himself, by an office of piety, to identifying all those who came to be called like her in order to get them handed over, with the false argument that they were working with their family members. And, you see, this trifle got many people to avoid a tragic fate, but most, unfortunately, did not. And this small story, like many others, illustrates to us the need to recognize the importance of private solidarity, the solidarity of individuals in dramatic situations, but also the need for the State, the public authorities, to assume fully, as a proper dimension, the management of refugee flows, because this is a requirement arising from the fulfilment of human rights. We understand that this decree-law goes in that direction and that is why Compromís will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u47	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum and one more week I must remind you that there are nine people who are in prison for political and preventive reasons, and that this is not a receipt. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Minister, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree, because we understand that it is necessary. We do not know if this additional 323-seat special public offer is enough, but we give you the confidence, because you value it that way and it is necessary. The Ministry of the Interior acknowledged that as of 1 July there were almost 50 000 outstanding cases and that the ordinary resolution capacity comes to about 15 000. We understand that it is not acceptable for us in the middle of the 21st century in the heart of Europe to have this stock of dossiers pending resolution in asylum applications, and it must be solved. You're going to have our confidence, you're going to have our vote in favour. The only thing we're going to tell them is that in a few months' time we're going to ask the Ministry of the Interior to be held accountable, and we're going to ask them to tell us how the evolution of the management of these files is going, and then we're going to assess whether it was enough or not. The truth is that it is necessary and we will approve it so that it can be implemented immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u49	Thank you very much, President. We are presented with validation the Royal Decree-Law 6/2018 approving an extraordinary and additional OP for the reinforcement of the means in the care of migrants and refugees, which already advance that the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party will vote favorably. The strengthening of the human resources of administrative staff to deal with the recognition of the right of asylum, other similar figures of protection or the reception of refugees by the General Administration of the State is urgently and extraordinary, and involves an increase of staff in the Ministry of the Interior of 231 new public employees and in the Labour and Migration of 92 public employees, which are added to the 2018 OP approved in the General Budgets of the State, and which will be called by the procedure provided for that General OP. It is known that the phenomenon of emigration to the European Union and to the State is of a structural nature. These are migrations or arrivals, both irregular as well as asylum seekers and other figures of international protection, and with the current resources in human and material means the General Administration of the State did not cover neither the State's own obligations nor the demands of the trade union organizations of the Public Service, which demanded more means, nor the demands of the humanitarian organizations nor the demands of this House. Thus, since 2012, the number of asylum-seekers has increased fivefold, and as of 1 July 2018 47 000 asylum files were pending resolution, with the expectation that by the end of this year the figure of 67 000 pending cases would be reached, as the OAR's annual resolution capacity was estimated at around 15 000 cases per year. In turn, it must be known that the asylum and asylum files, pending their resolution, give rise to the management of the reception and integration of their applicants. For its part, resettlements in the Union and affecting the State for the financial year 2018-2019 represent a commitment reaching the 2,200 applicants. And at this point I would like to remind you that Spain to this day has only relocated 866 people and resettled only 418 of the more than 17 000 people to whom it had committed to the European Union in the current period 2018–2019. I would also like to recall that in Greece there are 12,400 refugees identified and awaiting relocation, and in Italy 2500 refugees in the same situation, and a very high number in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, all of whom are awaiting resettlement. All these quotas and the scarce resources available by the State to absorb them have led, as I said, to a large number of outstanding dossiers and to a move away from the European average in terms of resolutions close to 50%. The decree-law now debated comes to partially alleviate these shortcomings, and therefore advanced to the beginning of my intervention our support in what constitutes a reform of the OAR, without knowing of course that the migratory phenomena that we face are a complex drama, whose origin lies in wars, in human rights violations, in the climate crisis, in food crises and also in the search for a better future. This complex drama - and it is also obvious - has come to remain and affects the whole Union, so there are no unilateral approaches, but within the framework of the Union and its policies, both migratory and of cooperation and development with the countries of origin and destination, which does not stop so that in the meantime a migration policy based on legality, regulated and orderly, responsible, respectful of human rights and international commitments, cooperative and necessarily without simplistic and alarmist discourses, and much less that it is used as a bold weapon or to demand from others what has not been done before and knowingly. Finally - and finally, Mr President - I would like to echo the demands made by the humanitarian organizations as a whole on behalf of migrants and refugees, in addition to calling for changes in the OAR, which in part already deals with this decree-law now under discussion, and which relate to the establishment of special protocols for the protection of the most vulnerable groups; to agree on alternative measures to the deprivation of liberty in the CIEs, as set out in the Aliens Act, especially in cases where the possibilities for expulsion are highly unlikely; to proceed with the amendment of the Aliens Act with regard to rejections at the border; to raise awareness of situations of lack of protection and violation of rights; not to implement development and cooperation policies under the logic of controlling migratory flows over lives; and, lastly, to work on the implementation of integration policies, because their lack is generating an undesirable increase in xenophobic and racist movements. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Surra Spadea has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems important to us to strengthen the means for the care of asylum seekers and refugees, only that from our point of view these means should be the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security and not the Ministry of the Interior, as we continue to associate the shelter with hot returns and not with a reception system. In that regard, an amendment to the Asylum Act would have to be considered. We are also concerned that to this extent we are covering up an increase in the budget to the Ministry of the Interior, which does not put its current administrative resources and infrastructure in the refugees, but waste them in Catalonia under the excuse of social instability that we all know is false, provoked by the ultra-right and only seen in the media. Nor do we think that economic resources have to be increased in the bureaucracy of the State while refugees receive only minimal resources, they are given a survival pack with a fruit, a toothbrush and little more, without translators or interpreters, without lawyers to advise them and without qualified medical personnel in most cases. And after five days they are sent by buses to major cities such as Barcelona, Valencia, Bilbao, etc., without even telling the local authorities to receive them properly. Attention to refugees cannot be ended at the border, but must start there and continue, as the most important part comes later, the work of inclusion that does not end until all people end up being equal citizens in rights and duties. That is why the autonomous communities and the municipalities that bear the bulk of refugee care would also have to receive economic and administrative reinforcements. Here we cannot fail to remind our Consteller Dolors Bassa, who worked so hard for the reception of refugees and today is one of our political preys. [[Applauds]] We demand that the Government recover the reception and integration fund created in 2004, on the proposal of the Republican Left of Catalonia, and that, first, with the excuse of the crisis, the previous government of the PSOE left it at a minimum, so that, then, the government of the People's Party would charge it. They now have the opportunity to replenish this fund properly, whether it is approved or not the State General Budgets for 2019. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will support investing in means, whether material or human, to improve and speed up procedures, procedures and efforts related to refugees and immigrants. Now, we do not understand and do not consent to the non-fulfilment of international commitments to shelter and shelter, and to the expulsion of immigrants and refugees on the southern border. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u53	President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall that in this country, in Spain, there are no political prisoners in our prisons. [[Applauds]] We believe that this royal decree that we face and debate today is urgent and necessary, it is one of the few royal decrees that has not been a toe and that does correspond to a real need. The global situation in the world, the various war conflicts, the various countries with instability have led to an exponential increase in the volume of forced movements of the population so far. The lack of action on the part of the Member States of the European Union in the face of the refugee crisis, plus the mismanagement of the economic crisis, has led to the resurgence in Europe of nationalist and populist movements which, far from wanting to build a better place, are seeking only division. We defend from Citizens, and always defend ourselves in the defence of human rights, a common European approach to migration policies, more support for the State Security Forces and Bodies that are sometimes doing under-doing work at the external borders of the European Union, more cooperation with transit countries, also more work in the countries of origin - which we believe is indispensable - and of course provide the resources necessary in this case to speed up the procedure for identifying asylum applications. This last royal decree, which we are debating, makes sense and obeys this last point, but it is not enough if we talk about emigration policy. And I say this because Mr Sánchez, since he became president of the government in any way, said - textual words -: With this government has not arrived immigration, with this project comes migration policy. Well, with this government not only has migration policy not arrived, but what has come has been, on the one hand, the bandages since every day they give a totally different political position; the lack of leadership before the European Union - Spain has physical borders to the south, apart from all our coast - since Spain should be leading the debate on the common migration policy in the European Union and forgetting the photos. Why am I saying this? Because they have even received an earshake for trying to appropriate the merits of the agreement reached between France and Malta with the European Union, simply because of this figure. The photos that this temporary government has given us have been that of the decision of the Aquarius, with a pompous reception, a necessary decision at that time, but that cannot be taken unilaterally. This was made known by both the European Commissioner and Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron, telling them that migration policy is Europe's business and that photos and unilateral decisions run counter not only to care, but also to the interests of all the Member States. In addition, this photo policy has alerted all those mafias who have decided to put Spain as a priority route. As you can see, there is no common migration policy, Mr Sánchez we have said that he is a temporary president, but we could say that he is the absent president, because except in airplanes, helicopters, in dubious cultural agendas, in Bolivia and in the act we have just had here, he has not come to this House; he has even surpassed Mr Rajoy's so criticized plasma! Because he doesn't even talk or let himself be asked. We do not know whether it is because of the lack of a project or whether it is because the continuous improvisation of his Government, in which the various members, even on the same day, give different versions, makes him not even able to defend the project he has, if any. With all these erratic decisions and the bandages that this temporary government continually gives, Mr Sánchez has given wings to Mr Salvini's populism and also to the ultra-right, with various published tweets, in which they support Mr Sánchez's decisions according to how he gets up that day. We must be realistic and distinguish between what refugees and asylum seekers are, between legal immigration, which in an orderly way is an opportunity to guarantee our welfare state too - which on the other hand Mr Sánchez in his official tweet named immigration as the threat we had, rather than seeing it as a controlled migration, a legal migration, an orderly migration, as the opportunity to guarantee our welfare state - and then illegal immigration, the immigration driven by mafias that has made our borders a turning point in the unprecedented tension; that makes our seas, our coasts become large cemeteries of people who expose their lives to European shores, driven by mafias who are encouraged by the policy of the photo, by the policy of unilateral decisions, and above all by the lack of project. We hope, Minister, also from your temporary Government, that this royal decree will not be an attempt to make up for your Government's lack of immigration policy. We hope it will not be the result of improvisation, because we do believe that the decree is necessary, but if it is also accompanied by migration policies as announced by Mr Sánchez, whom we have not seen here for a long time, except in acts and as I have already said on photos and social networks. Different international organizations such as UNHCR, the International Organization for Immigration or CEAR have given record data on the refugee crisis, not only on arrival in Europe, but also on arrival-specific data in Spain. The politics of the photos have not only encouraged the mafias, the slow bureaucracy of our country and the lack of means - that is why we justify this royal decree - have made the processes to define whether someone is granted asylum or not dilated so much that we have our overflowing CIEs. CEAR has also warned that this year the record will be broken in applications for asylum to Spain, not only from Syria, Palestine or different countries in conflict, but also from Venezuelan citizens, because there is a massive exodus being suffered by their policies, which their preferred partner and their undercover finance minister - you know, with this empowerment of the economy - are trying to make proliferation. I assure you that neither Mr Albert Rivera nor this parliamentary group will allow any dye of the policies endorsed in Venezuela in our country, I can assure you. For all this we consider this royal decree relevant. We would like you to be accompanied by real migration policy as well. We are facing a great challenge for the European Union. Less photos, please, and more leadership. Come to the rostrum and explain to us what they want to do, and above all think that this is a common challenge, that it is not a challenge of Mr Sánchez, of that president who neither is nor is expected either; well, perhaps by social networks yes. But what is clear is that it is a commitment of all. We have the opportunity to lead this in Europe with fewer photos and more real politics. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I give the floor to Mr. Exposito Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u55	Thank you very much, President. Minister, good morning. He has perplexed us; we have read the motivation of his royal decree-law and we agree to one hundred percent. I can sum it up so that we can remember: in recent years, forced population movements have reached rates that have never been recorded before. The increase in the number of refugees has led to an increasing number of asylum applications, which urgently require the improvement of the provision of these services for their normal functioning, coordinated by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security. Indeed, the situation requires improvements and urgent action, but if so, we are surprised that the measures they propose to this House are limited to having just presented this call for places. It seems to us inconceivable that, in view of the situation and with which it has fallen during the summer - also with the gas throwers in the fire, who later accuse the Government of giving wings to Salvini - you do not undertake a comprehensive plan to reform all the migration policies that we have inherited from the right, and to improve a reception system that is in a state of collapse. And excuse me, because surely today you are going to take criticisms that correspond to the whole government, because the problem is that your government barely draws with its left hand what is already erasing with its right hand, and I stress the right hand, which is not just a metaphor, and I give you an example: they open the port of Valencia on the left to receive the rescue ship Aquarius and on the right Minister Ábalos claims that this is a punctual measure of a humanitarian nature, as if the ports were the minister and were doing someone a favor. You read precisely to the Valencian professor Javier de Lucas, who is a European authority in this matter, who has been reminding you, in one article after another for many months, how many international human rights conventions oblige us - because they are binding - to open safe ports for rescue ships in the Mediterranean. I will give you another example: Minister Grande-Marlaska, lying by omission in this House at his first parliamentary appearance. I believe that such a fat thing had not been done in this House or in Minister Zoido, which is to say, because on 4 July he spoke, spoke and spoke for hours in the Committee on the Interior, and he did not report that the next morning at first hour he would give a press conference in Algeciras announcing the construction of an immigration reception centre, of which we do not yet know whether reception means internment, in the language of a minister who has called in parliamentary criminal organization to more than a hundred immigrants to whom he has expelled in a very great way, knowing how well you know under what conditions immigrants are arriving at our shores; minister, for God's sake! Have you read the manifesto of half a hundred social organizations against the hot returns that their government continues to practice? It is signed by SOS Racism, Spanish Caritas, Pastoral Center San Carlos Borromeo, Ecologists in Action, Entrepueblos, Jesuit Service to Migrants, Valencia Hosts, Iridia... I'm going to save you from reading the other forty that literally require a change in immigration policy. The motivation of their royal decree-law informs us that they have elaborated it in dialogue with the unions; that is phenomenal. Will they also, please, meet with these fifty organisations to deal with the whole situation, beyond this recruitment of reinforcement staff, for the reception system we are voting for today? El Saier, the Immigrants, Emigrants and Refugees Service of Barcelona City Council, offered an assessment of its management last July, and claims to have served in just seven months of the current year 12,621 people, of whom 4567 were potential asylum seekers. Says the Saier that this is an increase of 74% compared to July 2017, and has also declared that during the summer they have been arriving in the city of Barcelona - and it is certainly not an isolated case - buses of migrants arriving on the Andalusian coast. They are buses sent by the State without any planning that allows municipalities to anticipate the reception or transit needs of these people. This is only a demonstration of the state of discoordination of public administrations in the field of reception, and it is your Government that is primarily responsible for this discoordination, Minister. If you don't mind, I'll propose a deal to you. Today it is taken from this House yes, let us call it unenthusiastic, but in return, if it does not bother you, it will also take two other things. I'll give you the first one: a folder I have here with two documents. A document is the table of eleven petitions where I raised the closure against racism and for the rights of migrants and refugees that took place for several months in the city of Barcelona. The other document is a set of proposals in the field of immigration, asylum and foreign affairs which the Barcelona City Council has already sent to its Government without reply. The latter are proposals that are based on the experience of the network of city shelters throughout the State, which have for almost two years been calling on the central Government to coordinate with host municipalities, with cities shelters, and are calling for a comprehensive plan to reformulate migration policies and reformulate the reception system. Some important cities of this network are, by the way, governed by the Socialist Party; surely you are happy with them. If you don't feel bad, then you take our matilized yes and you take these documents for them to value in the corresponding ministries, and if you need us to offer ourselves cordially as mediators or collaborators to hold meetings that not only to us, but to many municipalities and social organizations, it seems to you that they are already more than urgent. Please listen, meet and don't keep making us a Rajoy. [[Applauds]] The second thing I ask you is that, please - and I will finish - a message be sent to the appropriate person from your Council of Ministers. It is very dangerous to rule on such sensitive issues at a poll, as if it were only in an election campaign. Surely someone will handle reports according to which your Government should feel fit to compete with our chastity imitators of Salvini - we have a few - and that means, Minister, not only putting hundreds of human lives at risk and destroying international legality, but also that you are giving up social pedagogy through public policies. Be sensible, please, in this matter, face with rigour greater coordination in the field of reception and restore legality to migration policies. I'm done. The truth is that, contrary to what the surveys probably say, that someone in your government is running, there is an important part of civil society that is supporting this country as a host country, and this very civil society, Minister, is beginning to lose patience. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Exposé. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my joy at the fact that this House is talking about public employment, because it seems that we are talking about another issue, and we are actually talking about public employment. The previous Government has rarely allowed us to taste or value an ordinary offer of public employment through serious and reasonable debate, and if we do not taste an ordinary offer, let alone an extraordinary one. At the time of this debate, it came about as a result of the work of the public service unions and public employees, who were continually demanding the previous Government to abandon the rickshaw policy applied by its Government, by the Rajoy Government, in this matter. As I say, the PP government did not over-produce itself to offers of public employment and we were many, as the Socialist Parliamentary Group knows, who then complained about the loss of quality of public services as a result of the loss of human resources. The non-legislative proposals, the initiatives promoted by this and other groups, and the complaints and complaints from other administrations or public employees themselves through the trade unions, which on very few occasions were convened by Mr Montoro, only in the last two years he reached out to the agreement with the trade unions representing the Civil Service, more out of necessity than out of conviction. The strategy of the People's Party was clear in that regard: let us let the public services alone fail. It was enough with the excuse of the crisis and the policy of austerity to apply all kinds of cuts to the public employee and to blame the entire public administration for all the ills of this world, this justified the accelerated loss of public jobs and the non-replenishment of them and, therefore, the extreme precariousness of some public services that have kept many public employees in their lungs because the Government did not care to let them die out of starvation. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, those passages in the recent history of this country are gradually falling behind; now the debate is quite different, now in Congress we are talking, at last, about extraordinary offer of public employment and not about freezing offer of public employment or replacement rate. The shade changes everything. Now, at last, we are talking about a government that believes in public services and not a government like the previous one, which said that not everything is supported by the excuse of the crisis or the supposed crisis, that I say that it existed, I am not saying no, but that it was also shielded from it to impose its ideology in a crude way. For these reasons, Minister, you and your Government have the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the validation of this decree, as I say, a decree-law that speaks of public employment and approves an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment to strengthen the means of care for asylum seekers and refugees. The objective of this extraordinary offer of public employment requires this. Global migration flows currently require responsible governments, and the Government of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, demonstrates this, among other measures, with the approval of 323 additional places provided for in the offer of public employment and intended exclusively for services related to people arriving to our border in precarious situations. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware of the data published by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In 2017 alone, there were 16.2 million citizens forced into migrants, a trend that comes up mainly as a result of military conflicts. In the case of Spain, the number of people who cross our borders in search of a safe land and a life without dangers or threats has also grown in recent years, to the point that in recent months, in the last year I would dare to say, Spain has become a port of reception for thousands of people, thus collecting our country's relief from another European area where the migratory pressure was much more visible years ago. There is a revealing evidence that there is an increase in displaced persons coming from other countries and continents with a request for asylum and refuge after their personal history. In 2012 the General Secretariat for International Protection received 6816 files and in 2017 the number was 40,415 files. In the first four months of 2018 alone, the number of files processed is 14,040. No one misses the evolution that has taken place in our country in terms of the number of applicants for international protection, so we need to live up to it and what less do we need to do with a decent number of public employees at the head of these services. What is truly surprising is that the previous Government, knowing the situation, was unable to foresee the need to provide these centres with more personnel, because there was already an increase in the arrival of people fleeing from hunger, conflict situations in their countries of origin and human rights violations in this country. During the years 2016 and 2017 there was a striking increase in migratory pressure. In that period, historical figures of asylum applications were obtained, which doubled; there was an increase in migration flows of 170% between 2016 and 2017. Therefore, the People's Party Government already knew that the closure of other migration routes would mean an increase in the arrival of people at our shores; even the national security strategy adopted by the People's Party in 2013 warned of this reality. In addition, in March 2018 former Minister Zoido explained to the different communities how migration flows would increase. For the People's Party did nothing to remedy the situation despite being demanding it from many humanitarian organizations, the affected themselves and, of course, the public employees of these centers, who saw how impossible it was to resolve with the human means that had the numerous requests that were being made. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the extraordinary offer of public employment is more than justified. It is necessary to strengthen public services and provide them with the material and personal means necessary to ensure that they are quality public services, to generate employment and to deal with a problem that has not been created by this Government; on the contrary, this Government is precisely articulating a migration policy in view of its non-existence with the previous Government. For all these reasons and for many other reasons that I will not put to the vote in favour for time, but I also welcome the fact that the majority - I think almost all the groups that make up this House - vote in favour, because what I do say to the political forces is that we have to live up to this issue and look at what our services and our public employees need to provide those quality public services to the citizens who need it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs Serrano. Mrs López Ares has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are presented with the validation of this royal decree-law which contains the extraordinary and additional public employment offer for the year 2018 and, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that we have not been disappointed since this job offer is coherent and fully in line with the model of government that was implemented by Mr Sánchez last June. The Council of Ministers of 27 July approved the ordinary offer and the extraordinary offer of public employment for the year 2018, and the data shows again the lack of commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party to public employees, public employees who, we must not forget, support public services. Public employees do not forget what Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's government did to us and we see that you are going back on track. [[Applauds]] The much-announced public employment offer for 2018, rated as the largest since 2008, is not the result of your work, Minister, but is the result of the agreements of the People's Party and the General Budgets of the State of 2017 and 2018. By the way, you and the Socialist Group spokesman voted against these budgets; you said no. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the real contribution of the government of Pedro Sánchez to the public employment of the General Administration of the State for 2018? The extraordinary offer brought to validation today: 323 places. Repeat, 323 seats. That's his great contribution to the public service. Quantitatively, they will agree with me that 323 is not a significant figure. Moreover, it is insignificant if it compares to the 4282 places convened by the People's Party in the offer of extraordinary in 2017. But qualitatively it's even worse. Let me tell you that it is not in line with a serious planning of the additional requirements for positions in the General Administration of the State. To explain this, let me compare it to the one presented by the People's Party in 2017. In this case, a wide range of extraordinary public employment was approved, more than 4000, as I have said, which was part of a broader plan: it sought to increase tax collection, improve workers' working conditions and provide the Administration with more means to ensure better use of its resources. Two models, ladies and gentlemen: we increased seats in 2017 to achieve an increase in public revenues by improving the fight against fraud; you, to increase those revenues what you are proposing are massive tax increases to the middle classes. Because, who do you think you're going to pay the new diesel tax or the new tax that we no longer know if it's going to be the bank or the financial transactions, or if it's going to be both? In the face of the increase in places in social security, the Public Employment Service and the Labour Inspectorate, which shows the commitment of the People's Party in the past to employment and the quality of that job, all we know is that in the last month you have destroyed 202,000 jobs; you are back on track. Two models, that of the People's Party, which consists of putting all the means for economic growth and job creation, and the socialist model, which is based on improvisation and occurrence and which will again lead us to the slowdown of the economy and the destruction of employment. And, ladies and gentlemen, the content of this decree is not going to be different, because, although it is necessary, it is also the consequence of an improvisation more caused by the marketing campaigns to which Mr Sánchez has accustomed us and which in the field of migration has generated a crisis of which only the Spanish Socialist Workers Party is able to create. It is the consequence of Mr. Sánchez's decision to order Valencia to welcome the Aquarius, a decision that implied a direct message to the mafias, who take advantage of those people who are looking for a better future, to move their routes towards our shores. That decision has had and will have consequences: it has meant... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u60	Wait a minute, Mrs. Lopez Ares, please. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u61	That decision has led to an increase in the number of irregular immigrants who have arrived in our country and is assuming that the centres and care services of our municipalities and our autonomous communities are collapsed. And they don't generate false news that that's the cause, it's not another, and proof of that is the data, which is silly. That decision generated an increase in the number of immigrants who have arrived and are arriving in our country. They are not my data, they are their data, they are data obtained from the biweekly report on irregular immigration of the Ministry of the Interior. These graphs show the evolution from May 31 to August 31 - I remember you arrived at the government on June 1 - of the number of boats arriving in 2017 and those arriving in 2018. And the same is true if we incorporate immigrants arriving by sea into our borders of Ceuta and Melilla. On 31 August last year we were talking about 15 114; on 31 August this year there are 33 195. This is the situation, and in the face of this serious situation they are now trying to put patches - they re-improvise -, patches like these 323 squares of the royal decree and patches like the new proposal launched yesterday of 40 million for the solidarity reception between autonomous communities of unaccompanied migrant minors. Do you really believe that with EUR 40 million you will be able to cover 10,000 unaccompanied foreign minors? Do you think this is enough? Ladies and gentlemen, you in immigration policy are arsonist firemen. What is serious in this case is that we are talking about the lives of thousands of people who have seen themselves and are affected by the decisions you make lightly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. López Ares. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u63	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to speak to thank all the parliamentary groups for their support in the validation of this Royal Decree-Law 6/2018, on the offer of public employment. It is true that some parliamentary groups have spoken, beyond public employees and this offer, of other issues, of other government policies, but I remain with their support, with the affirmative vote on this validation. I believe that this consensus shown by the House, the Congress of Deputies, is positive, it adds to the will of the Government, it adds to the will expressed by the trade unions, to requests that come from far away from non-governmental organizations and, ultimately, to the will of the majority and the sensitivity of the Spanish society to which we owe ourselves. I think it is also positive that with this validation we are responding to a constitutional mandate, an international mandate and our commitments to the European Union. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2018, OF 27 JULY, ON UNIVERSAL ACCESS TO THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM. [[File number 130/000034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u65	We turn to the next item on the agenda, validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018, of 27 July, on universal access to the National Health System. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, access to public health care under conditions of equity and universality is a basic right of everyone. From this firm conviction, the Government asks them to vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018, on universal access to the National Health System. This is a rule that ensures that all people are treated on equal terms by the public health system; it is a rule that dignifies political action and that I am proud to bring to this House on behalf of the Government of Spain. The Government aims to improve people's lives by eliminating inequalities and guaranteeing the rights of citizenship, solidarity and social cohesion. This requires the restoration of the universality of access to public health. A just society leaves no one behind, placing people at the centre of political action. Moreover - and this is as important as the above - the rule that we bring to the consideration of the Chamber represents a real change of model in health care in Spain, because from it the ownership of the right to assistance in the National Health System is based on the status of citizenship and its recognition is therefore disconnected from the status of insured or beneficiary. Thus, access to comprehensive health care is guaranteed in conditions of equity and universality to all persons. We are taking a qualitative leap of very wide dimensions. We guarantee health care as a basic right of everyone, as recognized by international bodies and treaties and as provided for in article 43 of the Spanish Constitution. Today we are here because the previous government passed a royal decree-law, Royal Decree-law 16/2012, of health exclusion, which was a real involution in the National Health System. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal instrument used by the then government to cut rights and generate exclusion and discrimination was a real decree-law. The reasons that have led the new Government to use this same formula are very different. The fundamental reason for the urgency of this rule is to end the injustice of the existence in our country of persons without the right to normalized health care. For the previous Government it was urgent to cut rights; for the present Government it is urgent to recover them. [[Applauds]] The second reason for the urgency is to guarantee legal certainty to health professionals and autonomous administrations. The widespread rejection by the majority of autonomous communities of the exclusion in public health of immigrants in an irregular administrative situation, expressed through the adoption of various provisions of a normative rank that in many cases have been questioned before the courts, should be highlighted. Although, ladies and gentlemen, once the rule has been amended, and if it is validated, the resources put forward must be analysed because they are meaningless, because the issue has changed in substance and the way is opened for them to be withdrawn through dialogue with the respective autonomous governments. And the third reason - linked to this second - is the need to harmonise and give territorial cohesion in access to health, since the autonomous communities that did not agree with health exclusion adopted unequal solutions. It was therefore urgent to put an end to this disparity, to legal insecurity, to inequality and exclusion, and to guarantee the individual and collective health and rights of citizens. But there is also a big difference in how to address this royal decree-law. On this occasion a dialogue process has been initiated, first with the autonomous communities and then with the rest of the actors involved, scientific societies and social movements and organizations. Some basic lines were first agreed upon. On the basis of the initial proposal, amendments and inputs were made and the normative text was subsequently worked together. This is a law in which all the institutions and entities concerned have had the opportunity to contribute and present their proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform adopted by the previous Government distorted the right to health protection by nullifying universal access and vocation and eliminating the ownership of the right set out in the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System of 2003. It was an involution of the legal scheme of coverage because it nullified - as I say - the universal character of health by conditioning this right to insurance. It was an imposed reform, without dialogue and without participation, which responded to an ideological model of exclusion, discrimination and inequality. It was an attempt to justify it with economic criteria, speaking of a supposed economic savings that was never proved. In fact, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights said in 2015 that the model of health exclusion, in addition to being unfair, is more expensive. Standardized care in primary care allows better control of diseases and prevents them from getting worse and patients from having to go to emergencies or be hospitalized, processes that involve increased health spending. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that health exclusion has led to a deterioration in the health of people who have remained outside the system and that fragmentation in the right to health protection and health care of these people has aggravated their situation of extreme vulnerability. An example of this is the people affected by chronic pathology - who require continuous treatment with ambulatory follow-up - such as diabetes, asthma, heart disease or any thyroid-related pathology, all of which are of high prevalence and whose lack of follow-up and treatment can lead to severe decompensation, requiring hospital admission. Studies such as that carried out by the Center for Research in Economics and Health at Pompeu Fabra University show that the mortality of the groups excluded from normalized care... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Excuse me, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u68	Thank you, Mr President, because there are several conversations that I could almost summarize from the rostrum. As I said - and I think this is important - specialized studies such as that mentioned by Pompeu Fabra University show that the mortality of the groups excluded from normalized care would have increased to 15% in the three years following the implementation of exclusion. In addition, the regressive effect of the 2012 Royal Decree-Law has led to a deterioration in the quality of health services and increased disparities between the autonomous communities. This is the assessment made by the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, in April of this year, of the Royal Decree-Law of the previous Government, which called for the necessary measures to ensure that irregular migrants have access to all the necessary health services, without any discrimination. The royal decree-law that we are debating today responds to these demands and those of other international bodies. The Council of Europe, in January 2014, classified the decision to exclude migrants from normalized health care as illegal. In his report, he stressed that the crisis cannot serve as a pretext for denying health. The United Nations Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights, also in 2014, harshly criticized the measure, considered it unacceptable and asked the Government to change course. The World Health Organization itself, through its Director-General, in April 2017 claimed the need for all countries to ensure universal health coverage for all citizens from the point of view of this as the highest expression of justice and stressed that no one should be denied access to interventions that save lives or promote health for unjust reasons, including economic or social causes. In addition, the Ombudsman, scientific societies and social movements and organizations have censored health exclusion and pointed out the damage it has caused. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain enjoys a quality and public health that we feel proud of, and today we strengthen the system by regaining its universal character, making health care a basic right of everyone. With this decision we are finalizing what was done more than thirty years ago, when it was promoted by Minister Ernest Lluch and the General Health Law was approved, which set health protection as a basic element in individual well-being and as a first-class social justice mechanism. It was the law that laid the foundations for one of the pillars of the welfare state in our country. The concept of comprehensive health care for health, universal access to and planning of health centres and services aimed at social and territorial cohesion promoted by the 1986 law has proved to be one of the great achievements of our democracy. In this spirit we defend the fundamental right to health of all persons, without exclusion by place of residence or birth, because health does not understand borders, does not understand identity cards, work permits or residence. With the recovery of universal character we achieve the goal set by Ernest Lluch and thus consolidate our public health system, recover rights and improve the well-being of society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to detail at this point some of the most important aspects of the Royal Decree-Law that we are discussing today. First, the restoration of the right to health protection and health care to persons with Spanish nationality and to foreign persons residing in Spain, as provided for in the General Health Act and in the framework of the Cohesion and Quality Act. The ownership of this right was repealed by the Royal Decree-Law on Health Exclusion of 2012. Secondly, the guarantee of the right to health care based on citizenship status. The rule implies a change of model in health care in Spain. The right to assistance in the National Health System is based on the status of citizenship and its recognition is therefore dissociated from the status of insured person. All persons, including collectives not registered or authorized as residents of Spain, will have the right to health protection under the same conditions as persons with Spanish nationality; also those who, although residing outside our country, have here recognized their right to health care by any other legal title, such as Spanish pensioners living outside Spain or cross-border workers. In addition, the exclusion of comprehensive health care from the collectives that remained outside the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 is corrected. Thirdly, a number of criteria have been established to prevent the inappropriate use of the right to assistance. Health care shall not be borne by public funds where there is a third party liable to payment, such as travel or accident insurance, or where the right to cover can be exported from their country of origin. Fourthly, the rule recognizes the competence of the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare to recognize the right to health care. This point is of particular significance because it consolidates the model of universal health associated with the concept of citizenship. Finally, the autonomous communities, in the exercise of their powers, will be responsible for processing the application and the issuance of the health card that certifies foreign persons not registered or authorized as residents in order to be able to receive the care benefit. The Ministry's road map is the harmonization of the procedure within the National Health System, in order to ensure equity and assistance cohesion. To this end, the Ministry has already sent the Autonomous Communities a proposal for instructions for the implementation of the norm and the Autonomous Communities have already made their contributions. In turn, they have been shared with civil society and all proposals are currently being studied and analysed. Transfer that, following the contributions, issues have been clarified such as, for example, that assistance is free of charge in the period between the delivery of the provisional document and the favourable resolution, i.e. the issuance of the health card; or, for example, the possibility that the declaration that there are no third parties obliged to pay is a responsible declaration rather than an affidavit. Ladies and gentlemen, the identity mark of the new Government is dialogue and participation. That is why we are in favour of this rule being treated as a draft law, with the aim of improving it during its parliamentary process with the participation of all groups, so that this rule is of all, so that this rule is of all. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the essence of this rule and what justified its urgency is the improvement of the individual health of those who have been excluded and also the improvement of the collective health of society as a whole. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you have in your hand the choice between universality and exclusion. This differentiates the way we do politics and the vision of society. Adela Cortina argues that ethics serves to discover the difference. I believe that the difference lies in the political decision to validate today or not the real decree-law that recovers universality and guarantees health as a right for all people. Those political decisions are those that transform a society and those that make it more just. Finally, I would like to thank all the people who have fought against health exclusion in these six years, professionals and social organizations and entities. They - some are in the rostrum - have seen in the front line the effects and also the suffering that has caused the unjust decision of the previous Government. They have given - you have given - an example of civicism and professionalism; professionals and entities have allyed themselves in favor of universal health and have proposed solutions from the conviction that the right to health is irrefutable. [[Applauds]] Friends, friends, you have contributed to building social awareness, you have contributed to setting an example of a decent and supportive society, you have done a good job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Quevedo Iturbe, first of all, spoke on the question of position-setting by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, the minute and a half I have just been announced I will use it to tell you that New Canarias in its day labeled the 2012 Royal Decree-Law offensive, because the title said it was to improve the quality and security of the benefits of the National Health System, it was announced just the opposite of what was intended. In fact, it was another tool to damage the public health system, in particular, and public service systems in general. Consequences of these neoliberal policies? Exclusion of the weakest groups and serious impoverishment of the public health system and its benefits, jeopardizing the effective right to health protection. These are the consequences of policies that need to be corrected and we therefore share the contents of the royal decree. Law 14/1986, General of Health, defends a universal and free model that we share. As this royal decree-law promotes one of the objectives that we share and defend of the General Health Law, Nueva Canarias announces the vote in favor of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u71	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Canary Islands in the years 2012 and 2015 again implemented universal health; we have attended to more than 3000 people. In the Territorial Council, our Health Adviser supported the Government's proposal but we have to say something, and it cannot be that health is still underfunded, that we do not have the same income in the different communities so that all the citizens of this country, live where they live, have the same quality of health, and that we must seek to finance health and also to change the spending rule so that communities such as the Canary Islands, which, because we have met, have 600 million surpluses, can invest it in the essential services of the community. Essential services for citizens such as health, education and dependency are vital. We are therefore pleased that it is being treated as a bill but we demand that the Government sit down to study the financing of the health of this country and of the autonomous communities. We will support it, as we did in 2012 in the Canarian Community. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u74	Thank you, Mr Vice-President of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Minister, Union del Pueblo Navarro will vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law on universal access to the Spanish public health system, for three principles. First of all, one that should not be valued but I will do it, which is freedom. Secondly, for social justice, which you have very well pointed out. And thirdly, for consistency. Why am I talking about the principle of freedom? Because Union del Pueblo Navarro will vote in favour of all those initiatives, come from the party that comes and surprise the party that surprises, that we understand that they are good for the whole of the shipwrecks and, therefore, for the whole of the rest of the Spaniards. Secondly, the principle of social justice. Forty years ago in the founding act of Unión del Pueblo Navarro came the search for social justice. Therefore, on that path you will find a party with the courage and hands to agree and agree. The same is true of the Foral Community of Navarre - and I transmit it to Mr Fernández, a member of the Socialist Group, of the Socialist Group - which we will seek, as we have done for almost three years, to ensure that Navarre is at the best levels of health, social and education. And finally - and with this, Mr Vice-President - for consistency. I am not going to criticize again the consequences of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, but I do want to emphasize that the Navarro People's Union, being in the Navarra government, was the first community to put an alternative to those irregular immigrants who remained outside the public health system; we were the first community to do so. Therefore, for freedom, consistency and social justice, we will vote in favour of this validation of the real-decree law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u76	Thank you. Egun on. Euskal Herria Bildu firmly believes in the right to health. That is why we stand against the 2012 royal decree - economicist, unjust, xenophobic and re-centralizing - which trampled on this right for the most vulnerable people - especially those in an irregular administrative situation -, relying on false arguments of sustainability or effect called for. That is why we have promoted the adoption of laws and regulations in the parliaments of Gasteiz and Iruña in an effort to ensure universal health. All of these attempts have been appealed by the Constitutional Court, whose rulings have denied us the right to take decisions supported by the vast majority so that all citizens can enjoy a life worthy of their origin or situation. We have tried to overcome the obstacles in all possible ways, basically by advocating measures of equality, of recognition of a right, not of charity, and therefore we believe that it is essential to guarantee universal health with all guarantees and we will vote in favour, because we believe that it is time to reverse social regression and cuts. And there is also another issue, we are concerned about the right to pharmaceutical benefits as an important part of the right to health, and the 2012 decree also established cuts here. This new decree states that foreigners who are not registered or authorized as residents will pay 40% of medicines and health products, and therefore also raises questions: speaking of extremely vulnerable groups, how their right to have medicines will be guaranteed and what real measures the Government is going to propose to reverse cuts in this area. The Constitutional Court has also acted on this issue and there have been appeals. We believe that mitigating the effects of copago, if we talk about universal health, is also an extremely important element and should be addressed shortly because - I insist - it is time to guarantee the rights of people in an integral way. We will understand that they have the will to do so. If they do not, of course, we will continue from our institutions to take measures to preserve those rights and to guarantee them to all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. I now give the floor to Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, this decree is necessary - we will not deny it - but it is also insufficient and aesthetic. It is insufficient because it does not completely nullify the 2012 Royal Decree of the People's Party, and because it continues to differentiate health care according to the origin of the person who needs it. And it is aesthetic because a good headline is pointed out but it maintains before the Constitutional Court the resources of the People's Party to the autonomous laws that did intend to make universal health. We therefore find it insufficient and aesthetic, but necessary. It is necessary to put people at the centre of politics, as you have said, and I am glad that you have learned that from Compromís in your passage through the Valencian Government. But it is also necessary to combat the racist discourse that is being made and that seeks to choose between curing a child or another according to its skin color. This is like having a plate with ten cookies and distributing nine to rich people and poor people gives them one and tries to confront them in case they steal them among them. In the end, giving cookies to the rich and leaving only one cookie for the poor is making humble people compete while giving wealth to those who have the most. And the saddest thing is that today it will leave here, and some parties, the People's Party and Citizens, will continue to make that demagogue and racist speech as the rich people continue to grow, but today we will leave here knowing that we have voted with humanity, knowing that we have rescued people thanks to this vote in favour. So we will say yes, Mrs Carmen Montón, minister, to that decree, but take note: withdraw the resources before the Constitutional from the autonomous laws, and leave the aesthetics and begin to rule with more courage. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u80	Thank you, President. We are back to remind you every day that this country is not normal. We are in this House to defend the will of more than half the Parliament of Catalonia, not to allow the Spanish Government to continue to govern by obviating that there are more than 2 million people in Catalonia who have voted independence, not status, not self-government, independence. And all these citizens who have voted independence, despite the violence that the State has exercised, despite the repression, despite the imprisonment of our political leaders, despite the fact that our Government has had to go to seek justice outside the Spanish State - where it has been shown that it is in a coma -, despite all this, these citizens persist and will persist. And I ask you, please, to leave our mayors alone, to leave our CoRs - which could be their children - in peace, to leave Tamara, Adri, in peace, to all those who peacefully and democratically exercise their right to express themselves freely. And the six hundred police officers... We're the people at the polls...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u81	Mrs Nogueras, please stick to the agenda item we are debating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u82	The decree for universal access to health care. In Catalonia we already have our law, the one that fell. It's been a long time since we did our homework in Catalonia. But today the minister has announced that they will lift the suspension of the law. Socialists had been preaching it for many weeks, but they had done nothing. So it took pressure of wear and tear on the part of the sovereignist parties to start this compromise. Maybe they weren't so clear they wanted to do it. In any case, we will continue to press the same or more on everything that comes to us and will not shake our pulse to vote unless there is a step forward. And yes, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the independence pressures take effect, and I see that over you too. Congratulations to Councilman Jordi Turull who... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u84	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, today we meet on the occasion of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018, on universal access to the National Health System. This royal decree-law contains in its preamble that the reform is instituted for a certain purpose, that is to reverse the right to health protection that was distorted by the previous Royal Decree-law 16/2012 and that was made mainly on the basis of economic criteria aimed at reducing the deficit of public accounts. That is why this preamble also states that it is primarily due to the need to ensure the universality of assistance, that is, to guarantee the right to health protection and health care under the same conditions to all persons in the Spanish State. Go ahead, therefore, our conformity not only with this purpose but with the text of the law as it relates to this particular object. That is because it is part of our convictions, as we have always pointed out. Universal attention has been part of the discourse of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Group throughout its history, as has also been shown, because it has been the characteristic of all the decisions we have implemented for health institutions in Basque, even though there have been governments that have tried to sabotage it through resources - and then I will refer to the decrees that have intended to subvert this situation - and because to date - and there is one element that has not yet been commented on - no one has been able to demonstrate that those measures taken in Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 have been effective or have served to reduce the deficit. The Minister referred to this situation earlier, and the problems of excluding the most disadvantaged also have an economic cost because we have always understood that it is more profitable, both socially and economically, to tackle this and other problems from the root. That is also why, Minister, we believe that we are entitled to warn about some things about this royal decree-law because, first of all, as has already been pointed out, it does not commit a complete reversal to the normative scheme prior to the Royal Decree-law 16/2012, but it is limited to restoring the situation prior to the reform only with regard to the subjective scope of the insured persons, maintaining others, fundamentally that of the copayo, which we hope to be able to talk about at the moment, although there is also a mention in article 2 on the copayo of foreigners, which is already another mechanism to allow them to have the pharmaceutical care they do not now have. These two issues, the subjective scope and the co-sponsorship in outpatient pharmaceutical services, have always been the subject of protection policies in Euskadi, and were also the subject of both decrees - 114/2012 and 447/2013 - on the occasion of the 2012 Royal Decree-Law to guarantee access to health care for excluded persons and to medical treatment. It should be recalled, however, that this decree of the Basque Government was appealed and was also the subject of a ruling, on 134/2017, by the Constitutional Court, in a controversial and critical interpretation, as evidenced by the number of dissenting judges, since it departed from its own previous jurisprudence and even from the order itself of the procedure, drawing up a new inverse interpretation of the concept of bases, thus making what was a minimum standard applicable to the State sphere, a maximum ceiling for the autonomous communities, which has served to justify the exclusion of some people from the health system and to restrict also the autonomous competences in this matter. Other autonomous communities have also suffered the same situation: Andalusia, Asturias, Catalonia, Euskadi, Canary Islands and Aragon, and specifically with unconstitutionality resources, Navarra, Valencia and Euskadi. Therefore, and while our position is in favour of the reform introduced by this royal decree-law in line with the previous position, and also telling it that it is incomplete, we must state that it is not only incomplete on this issue but also on another, since the text maintains a notoriously centralizing aspect, introduced in the 2012 reform, which, in our view, affects the scheme of distribution of competences between the State and the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In particular, it is a matter of competence on the recognition and control of the right to health protection and health care from public funds or, in the terms of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, of the maintenance of the recognition of the status of insured person that introduced the reform, unlike precisely what was provided for in the General Health Act and in Law 16/2003, on the cohesion and quality of the National Health System. Thus, the previous regulation, in its article 3, recognized the ownership of health protection rights to all Spaniards, non-Spanish Community nationals and nationals of other States, in accordance with the implementing legislation, but also recognized that citizens' access to health care services provided by the health system was carried out through the individual health card - article 57 of that law - which was only an administrative document that was limited to the accreditation of certain data of its holder, which is valid throughout the National Health System, which is issued by the autonomous health administrations and incorporates a code of identification of each person valid for the whole State. However, Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 attributed to the National Institute of Social Security the recognition and control of the status of insured person that qualified as precise for the issue of the individual health card by the Health Administration, which materially became a prior punctual authorization by the Ministry for the issue of the individual health card by the competent Health Administration, the autonomous one in this case. Although this action was accepted by the Constitutional Court, with differing positions, this wording is maintained in its current text and, in our view, constitutes an exorbitant delimitation of the powers that article 149.1.16(a) provides for with respect to the State. That is why we believe that it is important to note that the continuation of this envisaged scheme is regarded as inconvenient. We also believe that in that way, and with the exception of that amendment, it is possible to continue to maintain that kind of control, which we see as a centralizing action and which we consider to be beyond the competence of the State. However, we understand that this is an adjective to the system itself and that the substantive, that to which this legislative action is really directed, is to guarantee that element of universalization of health care in respect of which, of course, we are not only going to disagree, but we are going to support it, as I have already announced before. That, we must also point out that, as a result of this precision, we consider it appropriate to request the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill precisely in order to be able to incorporate into these elements that of the co-sponsor mentioned at the time, but it also refers to the competitive element, of which we hope that he will have better attention by his ministry. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u86	President, Members, Members, Ministers and Ministers, there is no medicine that cures what does not cure happiness. Garcia Márquez said so. Politics in turbulent times is not too good for health and hence I dare to give a hug to a fellow who is not of my party and who has been in this rostrum, Xavi Domènech. [[Applauds]] Because politics is not good for health, but for health it is good for good politicians, which can be from your group or from another, but these days I have realized the need for empathy, the need, minister, for empathy, to try to settle disagreements, which is part of political life because it is only built with different instruments, not with one, with different specialists. We understand health as a universal right, although we know that not all. The year 2012 teaches us with facts and we suffer the consequences of not all of us thinking the same. In view of the decree, the decree itself, it was in the direction, but many things were left for it to really be a universal right. Fortunately, on this complex journey they have accepted that it be treated as a bill. This gives us political air, because in this way we can meet and improve. When our group has been fooled by the withdrawal of the constitutional remedy it was not because we think that Catalan law is the best, but because Catalan law is better than its decree. It's that simple! The guarantees given us by Catalan law were therefore essential if it was really to be a universal right. The judicialization of politics has done us much harm, it is true, to some more than to others; it has done us much harm. It is very important that policy is a problem-solving instrument and not an instrument to make it more serious, and that is where we are. The Catalan law does not specify the place in which social security is occupied by the individual. You consider in the decree that the National Institute of Social Security is the instrument for accrediting people, and no, it is a good instrument at best for accrediting contributions, but people are something else; the presence, their need, is what gives them the right. We cannot wait three months once they have crossed our borders for these rights to be exercised. We do not expect a person who comes to Catalonia, who resides in Catalonia, to wait three months to attend to him, to be attended to immediately. For all this we want our law to work. And attention!, as nothing human is alien to us and as political Catalanism has always been supportive, we want it to work in all the autonomous communities, throughout the state, of course, yes; solidarity is the basis, it is joy, it is the affection that the peoples have, and this we will never lose despite stereotypes and despite propaganda defamations, this is our reality. The Catalan law was born with much support, of 135 deputies, only 10 votes against, so we want it. A few days ago he was walking around Brussels with Toni Comín, the advisor at the time this law was made. He worked hard so that as many Catalan Members as possible could make this law possible, and from here my affection and my embrace for an unjustly exiled person. [[Applauds]] As was the decree, our vote could not be favourable. In its processing as a law, with putting the common sense that a good Spanish law is feasible with the Catalan law, that we can marry them, that this is feasible, we will give our vote in favor. Once again we give confidence, but not blindly; I remind you that if you are ministers it is because our party gives you confidence or, rather, because we totally lost confidence in Rajoy when October 1st sent you to hit us; obviously, our confidence did not have it. That is why this trust, which is not blind, is a trust that is built on a day-to-day basis; that is what we expect and that is what we believe. As I said, our group is in favour of universal access to health. We sincerely believe that we can work with it. We believe in the ability of the human being to be generous; so often it has been the opposite!, now we have the great opportunity. We will vote in favour, but we will be looking forward to it. Our vote will not be critical, it will be a working vote behind the vote to work together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Nogueras, you also stop chasing Manolo de Blanes. I confirm that your pressure has no effect on our position, because our position - and you will see it throughout this debate - is the same. Minister, you bring here one more decree-law to guarantee universal assistance. When you bring a decree-law to this House what you have to prove is not if the People's Party did it wrong by bringing a decree-law to remove this right, but if there is, as the Constitution says, a state of extraordinary and urgent need to treat it as a decree-law, because it is in this House where the Legislative Power resides, it is not in the offices of the ministry, in associations or in NGOs. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what we will do will be to consider whether this situation is, first of all, extraordinary. Is the situation in Spain with regard to health care extraordinary, yes or no? I'm gonna run a little more from the epic and try to get down to the numbers. What the numbers say is that out of the 28 countries of the European Union, only five provide comprehensive health care to all immigrants, including irregular immigrants, another twelve provide only emergencies and ten not even that. Spain has therefore been, continues to be and will continue to be one of the most generous countries in the European Union in this respect and, therefore, cannot be claimed to be in an emergency situation. A report by Médecins Sans Frontières says that 55% of irregular immigrants in Europe have to finance their health care, 18% have to pay for the emergency and only 17% have to cover all the care. Is there, then, an urgent need? It has been said here and it has been repeated that all the autonomous communities - you yourself have said it - have regulated and have given rules to assist those who remained outside the 2012 decree, which we do not share. I am already telling you that we are going to vote in favour of this proposal, because we do not share the elimination of the right to universal health. But there are 4.8 million immigrants in this country, 800 000 of whom are in an irregular situation. Reder complains, in his impeccable work, 3700 cases of exclusion, among which he says there are 364 irregular invoices in emergencies. Look, in this country there are 27 million emergency rooms a year. Is it important that there are people who have been excluded or whose bill has been mistreated? Obviously, it's important. Is this an emergency situation? It is not, because autonomous communities and professionals have worked to make it not so. The situation in Spain is therefore neither extraordinary nor urgent. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u89	Wait a minute, Mr. Igea. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. If you have to have some very important and urgent conversation, do it in the corridors and not in the Chamber, because they distort the speaker's intervention, as you know. Go on, Mr. Igea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u90	Thank you very much. Is the decree necessary, is it necessary to return to the right to health care as a right of citizenship? Yes, we fully agree, and that is what we said in paragraph 55 of our programme and that is how we maintain it. That is why we will vote in favour of this decree, which will be dealt with as a bill. Is it enough that you bring here? Obviously, it is not enough, because in your preamble you speak of the need for equal access. The conditions of equality would give them a system with equal funding, with funding for the autonomous communities equal to the assisted population, and that is not the case and is not corrected by this decree. Since there is no funding, the resources are different, the human resources and the materials, and we have repeated this in this Congress, and the results are also different. Therefore, this decree will not solve access on an equal basis. But it is that, moreover, the decree of 2012 included another time bomb that you have olympically missed, but not only you but, surprisingly, all the groups that have spoken so far in this House, which is the possibility of having different portfolios of services. None of the groups that have spoken here today have mentioned the creation of a different system of portfolios of services that imposes inequality in the national territory, because there are communities that have in their portfolio heel tests or that fund cloquear implants or external glucose meters or child oral health and there are communities that do not. [[applause]] Therefore, when they say that attendance is going to be equal, equal to whom?, if the Spaniards are not equal to each other. [[Applauds]] With regard to care for immigrants in an irregular situation, you do not give them the health card you promised them because you knew that was impossible, because the European Economic Community does not allow it, because we cannot export that right; and so it appears in the decree. Therefore, there are no conditions of equality. You leave it to the autonomous communities, once again, to recognize and process that right, which does not in any way ensure equality or mobility of the same through the system. For all this, who do they look like? They are not even the same - you make an exception, for example - on the transplant waiting list. You are resorting a lot to the epic, but when you lower the data it is verified that the epic does not agree with the data of what your decree says. We therefore agree that it must be a right of citizenship and that it must not be the same as a citizen, and therefore we agree that there must be sufficient quality care for all people, including immigrants in an irregular situation, who must have the right to primary assistance, specialized assistance and no one should die in this country for lack of assistance. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this has to be treated as a bill to correct all these shortcomings, but also because this party believes in European citizenship. European citizenship is to be equal in rights and duties, that is to be a citizen, to have rights and duties. European citizens have the right, yes, to have secure borders, to have security; and they also have duties, duties for those who come to our borders fleeing from misery, fleeing from hunger and fleeing from war; and they must have the same health care duties regardless of which country we are in. We therefore propose that you go to Europe to make a common migration policy, which also includes common health rights for irregular immigrants. If we fail to have a common Community policy, if we fail to find a path between the naivety of its immigration policy of the first weeks and the xenophobia of the partners of Salvini de Esquerra Republicana, what we will do will be to leave the European project, the European dream, in the hands of the populists, the nationalists and those who know how to live well from the difference, from the aggravation and from the fear of abroad. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea. By Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u92	Well, given Mr. Igea's presentation, I'm going to talk about the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018. This Royal Decree-Law is the alternative to Chapter 1 of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, which we will all remember the impact it suffered and the need for this Royal Decree in the face of the economic crisis. Today, everyone already knows and has evidence that it was a deception. The aim was to damage our public health so that private health could be easily implanted and extended. [[Applauds]] The other day, the Secretary General of the People's Party commented on a television medium that they had sown prosperity. They are right, they have sown prosperity, but prosperity in private health companies. Well, I'm going to comply with the royal decree. [[The lady]] Why did public health stop caring for the entire population in our country? What were the arguments for amputating the universality of our National Health System? The first argument was economic. If a patient with diabetes is out of control and I can't take care of it, it's supposed to let the patient get worse enough, and if he's in a better coma, because then it's clear that he can already be treated by the public health system in a hospital. The same goes for diabetes, infectious pathology, or any pathology. Until the patient is sufficiently deteriorated, he cannot be treated in our health care system. Our professionals, who are the best, have had to alleviate such barbarity and remedy many of these situations by boycotting in some respects the royal decree. All the health professionals - all of them - have been against this exclusion of people from our health system, so I am very surprised that with the barbarities that I have seen Mr Igea, who is a doctor, does not contemplate the urgency of this royal decree. I can't understand. [[Applauds]] Another argument raised also by the People's Party that we have already commented on in this rostrum was that of health tourism, which was a high cost to our country. In this sense, we know that there was already a directive, 24/2011, on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, but that because of neglect or because they did not care at the moment to continue using it as an argument, until three years later the Royal Decree 81/2014, which regulates cross-border healthcare, was not adopted. My political group is going to vote that yes - as it cannot be otherwise - but it also has to demand that the Government guarantee immediate health care to all people alike without any bureaucratic work, as well as that in the various autonomous communities this royal decree cannot be boycotted, as it has been a few days ago in the Madrid Community, where the People's Party has tried through legislation to boycott the implementation of this royal decree. The Government must ensure that this cannot happen. [[Applauds]] I would not like to refer to Mr Igea again, but we think that his presentation is very self-evident. [[laughs]] I understand that it is not possible to guess whether or not from his presentation, because as we do not know if he gives us the vote or takes it away from us, until we know it well we will not decide in one way or another. [[Applauds]] We are clear that if it were up to you, you would be diligent in giving our public health to private management using tools such as indicators, which we also know how you were going to apply them. Health care is a basic human right. I told my colleagues earlier that how much work can cost to bring about a right in this Chamber, because health care is a basic human right recognized by WHO, which recommends to all States that they implement the relevant laws and policies to guarantee that right. My political group will be vigilant for that to happen. I would also like to comment that we were talking about Chapter 1, and the service portfolio is Chapter 2, and the Assistance Guarantee Fund is Chapter 3. Well, we were in chapter 1, but don't worry because 2 is coming, 3 is coming and 4 is coming. And also the deprivatization of our health system and the health of our population will finally cease to be a business for the markets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u93	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u94	Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, welcome to this House, to this Chamber. Today we validate the Royal Decree-Law 17/2018 to restore universal access to the National Health System, one of the first measures of the government presided over by Pedro Sánchez and also one of the first measures brought to this House by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this legislature. I ask you for validation - of course you know that we will support the validation of this royal decree-law - for three reasons: for reasons of justice and dignity, for reasons of collective interest and also for reasons of political coherence. Of justice and dignity, first of all, because this royal decree-law benefits each and every one of the people living in Spain, Spanish or non-Spanish, because it recognizes them the right to health care as an individual right, which does not depend on the situation of dependence. That is, it does not make access to health care dependent on a person separated from his or her husband or wife because of his or her ex-spouse status; nor does it make older boys and girls from the age of eighteen dependent on having recognized the right to health care to be or not to be twenty-six years old; or an income limit, or persons with disabilities who reach or do not reach the level of disability of 65 per cent. These are completely arbitrary measures imposed by Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. The General Health Act in 1986 already established in its first article the right of all Spaniards and foreigners residing in Spain to health care and established, in effect, a progressive extension of this right, an extension that was consolidated through different legal systems during the following twenty-five years, incorporating persons without resources, persons with non-contributory pensions, persons with disabilities, minors, Spaniards who migrated abroad and returned to Spain. It was twenty-five years to reach the 2011 General Public Health Act, which ended in extending and universalizing health care. This is what Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 put into demolition, along with the principles of public financing of health care. It was Law 16/2003, on cohesion and quality, which established precisely these two principles, that of public financing and that of universality. The Constitutional Court itself recognized this in its judgment 139/2016, at the request of the unconstitutionality of the Government of Spain in relation to a foreign law of Navarra on universal health care, which states in its legal basis: It is clear the contrast between the new regulation of the status of insured and the limitation of coverage introduced by the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 and the pre-existing regulatory framework. It is a turning point in the previous policy of progressive extension of health care since the creation of the National Health System. I also ask you to vote in favour of validation for reasons of collective interest, both health and economic. The Minister has already mentioned here studies that have been done. In this same House we have discussed on previous occasions the damage that has meant to the health of many people this exclusion from health care and have never been proved - some spokesmen have also said that they have preceded me in the use of the word - the supposed economic benefits or savings that do not generate the actual decree-law of exclusion from health care. The economic memory of that decree-law used a twisting argument suggesting that the EUR 1 billion that was said by an audit of the European Commission that cost health tourism was due to migrants without administrative regularization, when we all know that this improper health tourism originates from people who are entitled to a health card in their countries of origin but who use the Spanish health card for lack of sufficient administrative controls. We think it appropriate that this royal decree-law should establish equal conditions in health care, because health care that is not comprehensive, that is not complete, does not serve. Doctors and health professionals in primary or emergency care know that if they are not able to send a sick person to a review by a specialist or if they do not have access to medicines, there is no point in saying that they have access to emergency care or primary care. Finally, I would ask you to vote in favour for reasons of political coherence. You remember perfectly well how on 10 May this year in this Chamber we voted by a large majority, 206 votes in favour and the only vote against the Group of the European People's Party, a motion following the questioning of the former Minister of Health who had a series of resolutions. The first two states in text that the universal nature of the right to health care must be restored and that all judicial remedies must be withdrawn from the norms of the autonomous communities aimed at restoring universalization. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mrs Nogueras and Mr Olòriz, it is not the pressure of your party or of the ERC Group that makes the Socialist Party convinced that it is necessary to review the unconstitutionality resources that were presented to a rule that was really unfair to the Spanish. [[Applauds]] By the way, the first remedy of unconstitutionality - I want to say it here - I lived it in person and in particular the lehendakari Patxi López, president of the Health Commission, to Decree 114/2012 of the Basque Government, then presided over by the lehendakari López, which was, if I remember correctly, the first autonomous rule that tried to undo the unjust exclusion of health care for people in Spain. I call on the parliamentary groups that voted in favour of this motion a few months ago to vote also for the validation of the decree-law and I call on the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to join the rest of the House. They do not remain isolated again today in their no to universalization. You promoted and voted in favour of the Cohesion and Quality Act. This royal decree-law in essence is to return to the spirit and letter of that recognition of the right holders of health care. Be consistent with what they voted in 2003, be consistent today and vote in favour of this validation of the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018 and return to the path of agreements that in health matters have brought so much benefit to citizens. For justice, interest and political coherence I ask you to validate this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Angolo Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u96	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a government decree whose justification the minister bases on in this socialist mantra of the need to recover rights and dignify people in the face of the indecency of the People's Party government. It will allow me to start there, because so far the only thing that the Spanish people have seen with great indignation - which is to recover rights for Mr Sánchez - is to make an impudent use of the public media, to plug family and friends, to reopen wounds of the past, while not dealing with the current problems of the citizens, or to surrender to populists and independentists on whom it depends to put at risk the economic growth of Spain and with this the solvency of our welfare state, also health. [[applause]] That's not very decent, Minister. I am obliged to repeat that it was precisely the People's Party that ended with the injustice in which you left millions of Spaniards: without employment, without work, without home, without resources. [[Applauds]] It was the People's Party that ensured the viability of the public health system and thereby its universal, public and free character. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, he did so with a reform in 2012 that was necessary and urgent. It was because a health system with the Socialist Party had to be made universal because it excluded hundreds of thousands of Spaniards from public health, including the unemployed who were no longer receiving any benefits. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u97	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u98	Because we had to end the fraud that you allowed and that favored health tourism, which cost all the Spanish billion euros, even those two hundred thousand Spaniards that you excluded. Because that sanctioning procedure of the European Union for discrimination between European and third-country citizens had to be avoided. Because we had to pay the EUR 16 billion that you left in your health care debt. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u99	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u100	Royal Decree 16/2012 was necessary and urgent because it was necessary to make the system more universal and more sustainable, and so it has been. More universal, yes, Minister, because, despite its slogans in Spain, everyone who needs it today, including people in an irregular situation, is being given the widest attention in Europe. But it is done in an orderly and regulated manner, without jeopardizing the sustainability of one of the jewels of our welfare state. It is being done on the part of all the autonomous communities, as all of you here today have acknowledged, with whom you have certainly not had any dialogue or debate for this royal decree. [[Rumors]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, your disqualifications towards the management of the People's Party are also not credible in health matters, because millions of citizens in this country receive one of the best health care in the world every day. Also in Madrid, Mrs Botejara, and we have seen it these days; also in Madrid. [[Applauds]] That is why the Spanish citizens, after six years of the Royal Decree 16/2012, told them to their health proposals not at the polls. Today there is a Government of Spain that was not elected by the Spanish and is therefore carrying out policies that were not approved by the Spanish, which wanted it to be the People's Party that continued with its reforms, also in health. Let us talk about the actual decree that is validated today because the arguments that you use to justify both the substance and the chosen form are uncertain. Because it is a decree that sells smoke and also does it in an irresponsible way, opening the doors of Spain in pairs to health tourism. I believe that many of you have not read the royal decree that we validate today. In Spain health was already universal; in Spain - here everyone has said so, even Mr Iglesias - health is universal and this royal decree, on the one hand, does not abound in that, but, on the other, with the confusion that it has between saying that it is a right of citizenship and putting a whole series of exclusions to the health care of many citizens, the only thing that will do is to create problems where there are no more. Because you, Minister, have told us here that all the citizens, all the people who come to live in Spain, because of being citizens and living here will have the right to health care. Does this rich American citizen who in his country is not entitled to health benefits and who, knowing the excellence of our health system, comes here, registers himself and uses services that we will not be able to charge for because, according to the minister, everyone who lives here has the right to health care? Well, yes, we'll pay it all the Spaniards with that abusive tax hike that you, with your populist partners, are announcing to us. [[Applauds]] You are going to create a problem again because the European Union will say again that if health care is a matter of citizenship here, we will not be able to charge Community citizens living in our country, because that would be discrimination against third-country citizens. It is 920 million euros a year that Spain charges those countries for the health care of those people with resources and that we could now stop charging because you are doing a dangerous effect called to our National Health System. But if that is not so, Minister, if you have put conditions in the decree so that is not so when you speak of third parties who are obliged to pay, you are lying, then health care is not by condition of citizenship, then it is not universal. Either he lies when he says something or he lies when he says the opposite. If they wanted no one to be denied assistance in Spain, this decree was unnecessary because Spain caters to the whole world and has thus been recognized. If what you were trying to do was to homogenize the health care provided to irregular immigrants in the various autonomous communities, you could have done so by carrying out that proposal of minimum criteria in which both the People's Party Government and the autonomous communities worked on the interterritorial council and did so from the social point of view, so as not to generate the problems that this Government encountered and that you left it. Our proposal was more universal than yours but, above all, it was more responsible because it guaranteed assistance to those who reside in Spain but without putting the system at risk by carrying out a so-called effect that will cost the Spaniards a lot. Their haste and demagogies are not good counselors in this regard. And yes, Mr Fernández, I agree with you, health is a matter of state because it affects us all. Therefore, from the beginning the People's Party and on its behalf the Minister of Health offered them this great state pact for health and we were always open to debate on this issue. That is why today we will ask that this royal decree be treated as a bill. Moreover, it is the competence of these General Courts, which were elected by the citizens, to discuss these issues, a debate that Mr Sánchez and his Government want to steal from us today with that custom which they have taken to do all by decree. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, Minister, if you are so sure that the policies that you want to carry out are the ones that the Spanish want, call elections, let the Spanish citizens choose, because today you are implementing policies - also in the area of health - to which the citizens have repeatedly said no since 2012. That is why, out of responsibility, because we want the solvency of our health system, because we do not want it to fall back into the bankruptcy in which you left it and because today our system is universal, of quality and excellent and we do not want that to change, we will vote no to the validation of this royal decree. [[The Minister for Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare, Montón Giménez, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u101	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u102	Thank you, Madam President. I will only speak for a moment to thank the general tone of the debate and the contributions. I am sure that from each and every intervention I can draw a positive conclusion to further improve the health of Spanish and Spanish people. I want to take the bottom line and the bottom line is the universality of the health system. The Government has brought him with all the passion and conviction to strengthen public health in Spain. I just add to conviction and passion one more adjective: emotion. The first time I went to that rostrum many years ago was to defend the Law of Homosexual Marriage; today, to return universal health to Spain, so thank you very much for your contributions. Passion, conviction and emotion are the three adjectives that for me define today. Thank you. [[Greetings.-One of your honors: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u104	We now turn to the agenda item on the report of the Sub-Commission on the elaboration of a Statute for the Artist. For the presentation of the report, I have the floor on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year of work... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u106	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u107	...it is an honour to bring to this plenary the report drawn up by the Committee on Culture and Sport of the Congress of Deputies for the elaboration of an artist's statute. I will not comment on the conclusions of the report because I know that the spokespersons will do so below but I do want to explain to this House some of the details that have surrounded our work, which started from something new:... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u108	Silence, please, it will be so difficult!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u109	... the recognition by the Chamber of the specificity of the work of the creators authorizing the establishment of this subcommission. Never before has the Spanish Parliament expressly recognized that men and women who dedicate their lives to creation do so in exceptional circumstances and must be recognized. I assure you that was already a giant step. I hope you will understand this report as what it is: an act of justice with so many people who for years have done their work in conditions of insecurity, insecurity or intermittentness. For some this is very late, but today I want to think that in the near future men and women who write, who act, who lead, who carve, who paint, who dance, who dance, who compose..., will find in these pages a relief to some of their professional problems. The subcommittee began its work with the attendance of up to thirty associations and representatives of all creative groups. Those who could not intervene sent us different documentation that was examined by the spokespersons. I would like to point out that, by agreement of the whole subcommission, the participants were called by all the parties. Then came weeks dedicated to organizing the material and to holding long working sessions on the problems we encounter and the measures to be taken. I would like to recall here the invaluable help of the technicians of all the parties who helped us in matters such as taxation or social security. And I begin with them the long chapter of thanks that will occupy most of this intervention. I would like to express my gratitude to the Bureau of Congress which granted an extension to finish the conclusions when we need it and to the President of the Congress, Mrs Ana Pastor, for the attention and affection with which she received this report when it was handed over to her by the subcommittee. To our lawyer Don Ignacio Astarloa, who was arbiter of discussions, lawyer of lost causes, counselor in the doubts and cloth of tears of all the spokesmen. We have all told you at some point, but I want to repeat it from this rostrum: without Ignacio Astarloa this boat would probably not have arrived at a good port. Astarloa embodies the extreme professionalism of all the staff of this house, their good work, their talent and their willingness to make the work of Members easier. [[Applauds]] And it is also fair to acknowledge the support that has been given to us by the Ministry of Culture and its successors. The portfolio managers encouraged us during these months to be ambitious and committed to help us materialize our proposals. I thank Mr Guirao for his presence in the reading of this report. The statute is the fruit of the work of many, but above all of the talent of all. I would like to thank the representatives of Culture who participated actively in the drafting of the report: Emilio del Río and Miguel Lorenzo, by the People's Party; José Andrés Torres Mora, of the PSOE; Eduardo Maura, Rosana Pastor and Miguel Anxo Fernández Bello, of Unido Podemos and En Marea, and Félix Álvarez, of Ciudadanos. I also appreciate the confidence of the spokespersons of the other groups, who have been informed on time of the progress and content of this document. For months four parties have worked side by side with absolute exceptional loyalty, without allowing ideological differences to separate them from the common goal of being able to present this text and do so from the highest consensus. I am proud to think that the sense of responsibility of all spokesmen allowed us to continue working, even in the background of a motion of censure that brought about a change of government. Ladies and gentlemen, it hasn't been easy, but here it is. It has been an honour to preside over this subcommittee and to be able to witness the commitment and honesty of a group of men and women who for months have turned into a task that we hope will soon bear fruit. We live in difficult times, but sometimes things like this happen, and seven parliamentary groups agree, and I think that if we have made it possible, it is because during the work of the Commission we were all able to forget our ideological origin and we worked on the creators who throughout history found countless difficulties in living on their own. When we locked ourselves in a room to find solutions to some problems, we had in our heads those men and women that had so often not been thought of. We would never have taken the report forward if we had not conjured ourselves in secret to park our acronyms and think about people. Let me repeat something I have already said here again: In a hundred years no one will remember our names but, instead, they will continue to read a book that has been written today, watching a film that is being filmed or listening to a song that has just been composed. I guess that certainty took us hand in hand to the consensus we exhibited here today. This report is just the beginning of the road, but we already have the road map; a map to get where we want to go. I hope Spain soon becomes the best country in the world to create. When this happens, I hope you remember it was because one day we all worked together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u110	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u111	The chairman of the subcommittee is right, sometimes things happen, and, remembering Mr Rajoy, I will say that sometimes beautiful things happen. This is one of the beautiful things that has happened in this House. There is rarely such unanimity in the work of all groups. Therefore, as a member of the Committee on Culture, I would like to congratulate the subcommittee on its excellent work and also on the unanimity of all groups. The text contains seventy-five points which are absolutely reasonable proposals, proposals of common sense, proposals which should probably have been taken into account long ago, which could have probably avoided suffering and difficult situations for people who want to live from culture, something so difficult in this country. The seventy-five proposals covering areas of taxation, labour protection, social security and compatibility of the author's rights with other benefits are, I insist, absolutely reasonable proposals that deserve to be taken into account. It would therefore be important for that unanimity that was given in the subcommittee to be given here today as well. It would be a positive gesture by this Parliament to show that sometimes, few, we are able to agree and we are able to put common sense before our own convictions. It would be good because the people, the citizens, are waiting for these kinds of gestures from this Parliament as well as from politicians. However, with today's unanimity being a positive gesture, it would be much more important for that gesture not to end today; that is, that this report that has been brought here today should be translated into a legislative process that would eventually put all these points in the laws that were needed, that is, turning the seventy-five points into seventy-five articles of law or different laws. I must say that, of course, today we too are happy and will vote yes, but, I insist, we hope that this Parliament will do what it has to do, which is to turn these proposals into legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u113	Thank you, President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go much further, because I believe that President Rivera has made an interesting point of the work done in the Commission, but I wanted to take this moment basically to show my gratitude, first of all, to all those who have participated. I have done so personally and in the Commission, but I did not want to miss the opportunity to do so also from the House, among other things, because it was basically up to the four majority groups in this House to bring the statute to a successful conclusion, and that is why I think it is fair to thank you for your good tone, your good will and, above all, your work to make this statute a reality today. Secondly, today we finish the first chapter of this statute which, in fact, is characterized by two revolutionary acts. The first, I would say, is that the whole House agrees on a subject, especially on such an important subject and the second revolutionary act of this first chapter has to do with the fact that this consensus is generated around the cultural sector, which is always the great damage to major policies and is always the last in line. That is why I think it is important to highlight those two small revolutionary acts that are part of the first chapter of that statute. And now it begins, Minister, and I look at you, the second chapter, which has to do with the fact that these recommendations, this report approved by the subcommittee, are applicable, easy to incorporate and, above all, that the cultural sector of this country sees it. It's your challenge and it's the challenge of your cabinetmates, and that's why I look at you. Whenever it is to walk in that direction, it will find both us and the rest of the groups in the House that have formed the subcommission. I leave my point here, not without repeating my thanks to the groups of the House, to the spokespersons of the main groups and to the spokespersons of the minority groups, that we have done everything we can to be able to participate and to be able to add to this statute our opinion, our point of view on the cultural sector and thus to move specific demands from a long-damaged sector. I did not want to leave without thanking the lawyer for his patience, also with those who had to run away from the commissions for always, always, always a little more than it should be. Thank you very much, Mr Advocate, thank you, President and thank you to all the members of the Commission. As it could not be otherwise, our vote will be affirmative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u115	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this parliamentary group wishes to thank all the members of the Commission and all the people who have participated in it for having their vision from different areas of culture and also from the field of law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u116	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u117	People who have provided information that has been key or relevant to then develop this report that we are going to adopt or ratify today; report that has been the result of the consensus of all parliamentary groups and also with different ideological positions and therefore we understand that with added value. The arts, in their broadest and most complete sense, are and should be an integral part of life and it is necessary and desirable for Governments to contribute to creating and maintaining not only a climate conducive to freedom of artistic expression, but also the material conditions that facilitate the manifestation of this creative talent. A recommendation made by UNESCO back in the 1980s to bring the Member States' legislation into line with the conditions of artists, but also a resolution of the European Parliament in 2007 urged the Commission to reflect on this. And it must be said that many times we are overwhelmed by the overwhelming success of a few artists, but the reality is another very different: temporary, intermittent work, with irregular income, with constant mobility and other conditions that need to be addressed. That this Parliament has decided today to do so, even eleven years later, is great news. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u118	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u119	This report is therefore a good step in the right direction, a report that has been drawn up not only because of the need to transmit to society the importance of culture and freedom of creation, but also because of the special characteristics of this labour relationship, a labour relationship in which it is necessary to have mechanisms of protection given its peculiarity, peculiarity which is also reflected in part in the Workers' Statute itself when it recognizes the speciality of artists in public performances. This report seeks not only to highlight the need to solve the various problems of artists and creators, but also the need to transmit to society the importance of culture and creativity as values, but also of culture as a source of economic activity. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u120	Quiet, please. I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u121	It is a report that, in addition to addressing tax, labour, social security, training, education and intellectual property issues, must be the road map in order to then be able to legislate and achieve comprehensive protection, responding to the specific needs of this group. But let's not be fooled into thinking that the artist's status will be the only solution to his needs, but we will have to move forward with new public cultural policies, codes of good practice, budgets and so on to put culture, the artist and creators at the centre of public policies, as urged by a 2018 UNESCO report. This group is going to ratify the report which has already voted in favour in the Commission, but we would also like to make it clear that there are some of the measures that have been put forward concerning tax matters, such as those relating to the IRPF. We have to say that we are faced with measures that affect a concerted tax of autonomous rules and, therefore, on which we have exclusive competence and then it will be the respective outlaws of Vizcaya, Guipúzcoa, Álava and, where appropriate, the Navarra, who will have to address and decide the implementation of these measures. Finally, I have to say that our Members already include the majority of deductions in this report, particularly in the section on returns from economic activities. For all that said and with the above-mentioned exception, we will ratify this report. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u122	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u123	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all - and I agree with what the honourable Members have said - I would like to congratulate the subcommittee and all the members who have been part of it for having managed to adopt unanimously a report which could be a basic document from which to start work. I think it is important to reaffirm the synthesis work represented by this report and also the effort to try to provide different solutions and proposals. Therefore, it is a working document from which we can begin to work. We would also like to express our appreciation to the groups and entities in the sector that have transferred historical claims to us. They are not current claims but actually from many years ago. In fact, it's a historic demand. This report does not contain any exceptional demands from the cultural sector, which must be made very clear, but simply reflects a situation of historical deregulation that perpetuates the precariousness of workers and cultural work. In the face of this situation, the sector is simply asking for greater recognition and proper regulation of both labour and taxation. Therefore, what is wanted is to normalize the work and the cultural worker. Perhaps the concept of the artist's status - it is a personal perception - can cast doubt on who constitutes this collective. In fact, we are referring to the cultural worker understood as everyone who participates in the production chain of any cultural project. For example, the cultural manager is not a creator, but is a member of this cultural collective. Under no circumstances do these demands involve a request for privilege - as it may seem - from that sector with respect to other fields of work, but they simply seek - and I repeat - to normalize a historical abnormality of lack of recognition of work and cultural workers. I believe that this is important because it is one of the important criteria on which this report was based. That goes so far as to identify the deficits that are very diverse and that, although repeated in other sectors of work, perhaps would point out as specific in this sector: on the one hand, the intermittent nature of cultural work that, as colleagues have commented, is one of the specificities of this sector, and on the other, the lack of recognition by Social Security. These are two fundamental points that have been repeated by the different spokespersons. In fact, we recommend taking into account in any reform of the labour and tax field each of the seventy-five points mentioned. Therefore, since the Sub-Committee on Culture we have moved it to other committees and other areas because it is really a very cross-cutting aspect and to start working we need to take into account the different aspects. In the short term, action can be taken on certain points, for example, updating the social security headings, which is important, or making the collection of copyright compatible with the retirement pension. They are two aspects of the many that there are but I think you could work on them with a relative agility. In conclusion, to be able to complete these recommendations contained in this report already means greater recognition of the cultural worker, and in this respect to be launched, to begin to work legislatively to study each of the articles that are being proposed is an important objective and will be the real way of recognizing the work of this sector, a sector that, as I have said, has not been historically recognized and therefore needs to return to a certain regulatory normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u124	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Alvarez Palleiro has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I think it is fair to thank and acknowledge the work of the various collectives, groups, associations, the different people who have gone through this subcommission, who enlightened us with their wisdom, who gave us an accurate diagnosis of the health or bad health of our culture and who provided us with solutions to correct these imbalances. [[Applauds]] Some of these people are here in the rostrum. May you be the representation of all those men and women who have made it possible for this statute to come forward. From my heart, thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u125	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Ladies and gentlemen, at these difficult, politically complex moments of genuinely delirious parliamentary arithmetic in some cases, it is remarkable, very remarkable, that the report on this statute was adopted unanimously in June in the Committee on Culture; I believe that we must not tire of repeating that we have managed to adopt something in this House unanimously. This is the observation that when working for the common good, in this case for culture, leaving aside party issues, acronyms, personal interests, agreement and consensus are possible. I would like to reiterate the vital importance of culture for the power to transform and to vertebrate society, for that capacity which must foster the critical spirit among citizens, in addition, of course, to the enjoyment, enjoyment, the pleasure that music produces, to read a book, to see a film, dance, theatre, circus, any plastic expression, heritage, etc. This statute, which is not a small one, wants to affect labour, health, tax, retirement, access to social benefits, professional transitions to modernize, update and adopt existing regulations and laws to the reality of the cultural work of the twenty-first century. This status enhances the efforts of artists, creators and cultural workers. This status addresses the differences that exist with the countries of our environment in the treatment of all those who create culture. This statute is addressed to the vast majority. Let us not deceive, to the successful actors, to the actress who triumphs in Hollywood, to those writers, painters and sculptors who sell their works at good prices, to those musicians who are able to have hundreds of thousands of downloads - legal - on the Internet, to all these already go well, they do not have these kinds of problems and I do not believe that this statute affects them. But is it logical and can one assume that a pregnant circus artist has to juggle, never better said, so that when the day of delivery comes, she is, at least, in a situation assimilated to discharge in order to be able to access maternity benefits like any other worker? Is it logical that a musician who collects his retirement, which corresponds to him because he religiously contributed to it, must choose between collecting the retirement or having to collect the rights generated by a song he composed thirty years ago and which has suddenly become fashionable because of causes and misfortunes that he does not control? Can we allow a dancer who exercises a cultural discipline with a high physical demand and with an absolute dedication, to which, at the very least, thirty-five years, her career is over, not to be provided with a professional transition program, as exists in the most advanced countries of the world, so that she can join the labour market and continue to participate and contribute her wisdom to our society? If we don't do this, who will dance for us? Do you know that with the current legislation, Miguel de Cervantes, who published the second part of the Quixote at the age of sixty-eight, would have to risk losing his retirement if he decided to publish it today? Are we willing to waste the talent, experience and wisdom of our older artists, in which they can continue to contribute cultural wealth and income to the common box? This type of situation is intended to solve this status. Now comes the time of truth, Minister, the time to implement the relevant legislative and regulatory changes so that this agreement - I repeat, which was adopted in the Commission by consensus, unanimously - becomes literature to substantially modify the conditions of artists, creators and cultural workers and to update them to the reality of the 21st century; in short, so that this agreement serves to dignify cultural work. No minister of culture in what we carry of democracy came to office with such an impressive asset: a status of the artist approved by consensus. You have the possibility to go into history as the minister who knew how to make this necessary and essential change to improve the conditions of cultural work or to go into history as the minister who squandered this flow. And what do you want me to say to him? I very much do not trust, and I do not say so for you, to whom I grant the benefit of the doubt given your trajectory in the world of culture, but for the government to which you belong. It is a Government whose most relevant contribution, for the time being, has been to request, through its Vice-President, a report from the Royal Spanish Language Academy - which if it does not say what it wants to despise, in its own words - to duplicate the language in our Constitution. Another contribution has been the presence of President Sánchez at the Killers concert, which he came to with his 'Air Force One', and of which we cannot know much more because it is state secret. I do not trust a government of eighty-four Members subjected to the blackmail of populists and independenceists, to whom Mr Sánchez owes the rent of the Moncloa, of a government which, I fear - I hope, for the sake of culture - will not have the ability to manoeuvre because of its extreme weakness and for the blackmail to which it is subjected. I wish, and I say this with all sincerity, I have to eat these words, which, as Winston Churchill said, will be a balanced diet. And as we do not trust, in Citizens we will be vigilant and vigilant to control the legislative development of this statute, which, I repeat, was adopted unanimously. I would not like to finish this speech without thanking all the members of the House for their work and willingness and for making our task so much easier and without thanking all the Members who formed this subcommittee, absolutely all of them, but let me point out to Mrs Pastor, Mr Torres Mora, Mr Maura, Mr Del Río, Mr Lorenzo, the President, Marta Rivera de la Cruz, and other colleagues. But above all, I would like to give special consideration to our lawyer, Mr Astarloa, a beacon who has guided our steps with wisdom and precision. It has been an honor to meet you and work with you and to have parasitized you all the knowledge I have been able to. Minister, I will end by reminding you that the ball of this status is now on the roof of your office. Please don't waste this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u126	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pastor Muñoz has the floor. [[Pause]] It's Mr. Maura, but you have to let the Bureau know. Mr Maura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u127	Thank you, President. Before addressing the issue before us, I wanted to say just a few words about a colleague of all, the deputy of En Comú Pomero Xavi Domènech. Xavi Domènech never refused a conflict and never stopped giving a battle, but he always understood - and it's a learning I owe him - that the really hard and revolutionary thing is to cooperate. Therefore, let there be a hug for him and for all the people who cooperate. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I am addressing the issue before us. This debate we have today on the report of the subcommittee for the elaboration of an artist's statute is the penultimate stage of a long and hard work which I believe is satisfactory for at least my parliamentary group and for me personally. We have achieved, through a truly dedicated method, through a lot of work, with many discussions with trade unions, professional and collective associations in the sector, with a lot of dialogue between the parties and also with a very special attention to the specific problems facing the people we were dealing with, we have - I say - achieved a very advanced draft statute which undoubtedly puts on the table the need for this collective to have equal rights and opportunities, which constitutes a legislative agenda against precariousness, which deals with the specificities of cultural work, both on its own and on its own, which also does so with attention to the intermitence characteristic of the sector, which does so with a gender perspective and which also does so with sensitivity towards the people working in less visible places, the less visible jobs, the work behind the scenes, before the scenes and after the scenes, which are always there ensuring that we can enjoy a concert, a book, a play or the film. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u129	Having said that, and expressing satisfaction with the result we have achieved, I believe that the fundamental thing is not only the text of the subcommission's report. To a large extent, I believe that the subcommittee, as a parliamentary process, as a legislative work it has been, also serves us to change the paradigm; it also serves us to remember that every time we debate culture in this or other Chambers, in all institutions and at all administrative and competitive levels, we always remember that culture is a work. Most people may associate it with their free time, most people may enjoy culture at the end of their working day or at some point in their rest time, however, in order for that to be possible, many people have to devote themselves to culture all day, every day of the week and all hours of the day. It is absolutely essential that we understand, therefore, that, today, it is not so easy to find places where it is openly and clearly and distinctly said that culture is a work and that as every work requires decent conditions, it requires equal rights and opportunities with respect for other professions, other people and other jobs. Culture, in addition to a productive sector and a job, is also a right. This subcommission report is not just something that matters and that we dedicate to people who are professionally engaged in culture, it is a report that will help ensure the rights of all citizens. Culture is a constitutionally recognized right in the title devoted to the fundamental rights and duties of all citizens. Culture is a right that is clearly and explicitly reflected in article 44.1 of the Constitution. That people who are dedicated to culture can do so in decent conditions, that they can do so - I insist - with rights and opportunities is good for all citizens, therefore it is not a policy or a sectoral advance; it is an advance of all citizens, it is an advance of the whole society to the extent that, thanks to this report - when we manage to implement it - we will be able to do something as relevant as guaranteeing a constitutional article, 44.1. What is the point of the Constitution of recognizing the right to access to culture if the people who can guarantee it do not themselves have rights, do not themselves have opportunities? I take advantage of my last few minutes to thank - as my colleagues have already done in the rostrum and in the Commission, as well as on other private and public occasions that we have shared - for the work that has been done. I believe that the best method for consensus is conflict, is to put the problems on the table, is to put the differences on the table, is to put the possible solutions on the table; the best method for obtaining consensus is, ultimately, not to fail to recognize where the problems are in order to be able to deal with them in all their complexity, in all their extent, with all their difficulty. Many people who have already been mentioned have helped us in this work. I will only refer, of course, to our lawyer, Ignacio Astarloa, and, of course, to the associations - some of which are present here - as well as - it is inexcusable - to my parliamentary group colleagues Rosana Pastor and Miguel Anxo Fernandez Bello. Thank you all, speakers and Chairperson of the Commission. It has been a pleasure, perhaps one of the most beneficial parliamentary experiences for me and that I will remember as an honour and not just as a pleasure or as a task. Thank you all and everyone. I hope that we will soon be in this very rostrum defending real decrees, defending concrete measures that, I insist, will make what we have achieved so hard a reality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u130	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Torres Mora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u131	Thank you, Madam President. I am convinced that at this hour all your ladies and gentlemen will understand perfectly what it means to starve more than a poet. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday night we witnessed the loss of the National Museum of Brazil to all humanity. [[Applauds]] More than 20 million museum pieces, some of them of incalculable value, depended on a miserable budget that for this year had a forecast of 42 000 euros. It's hard to believe him. How much knowledge and beauty have been lost forever! Back in 1848, Victor Hugo, then a member of the National Assembly, after cuts in the ever scarce budgets of culture, warned his fellow parliamentarians, and with them all of us, all the parliamentarians of the world. Victor Hugo said: You have fallen into a deplorable error; you have thought that you would save money, but what you will save is glory. So far, Victor Hugo's appointment. How much glory our Brazilian colleagues have lost, a glory that neither they had won nor was for them, but it was for a heritage that past generations accumulated for future generations, of which they were temporary depositories. I can't imagine his desolation. Something like this shouldn't happen to us, it can't happen to us. For a few years now I have had the impression that the problem is not just us, the representatives, but that a part of society has moved away from culture and its creators, whom it sees very unfairly as a privileged caste and against whom the slightest excuse is charged. I am convinced that there are few, but those who think so are very noisy, and the truth is that gradually it has spread through public space, if not a certain attitude of hostility, yes of indifference towards cultural creation, perhaps not in rhetoric, always pubic, but in fact. Today all your ladies and gentlemen have a magnificent opportunity to make politics lead social change and to do so in a good sense for all, not making necessity virtue, as we usually do, but making virtue necessity. For more than a year a small group of Members from all the parliamentary groups have been working on the report that we are presenting for adoption today. Thanks to all of them for fruitful dialogue in agreements, for love of culture, for humor, for respect, for intelligence and for work, for friendship. Thank you for the abundance of all that, which supplements the lack of other resources, because it is well known to your ladies and gentlemen that our Parliament - this is an evil that we share with other advanced democracies - does not have great resources, so that in order to make the report that we are now submitting to the plenary we have had a lot of help, a lot of complicity and a lot of understanding, especially of the professional and trade union organizations of the creators and artists and of those who lead them. I can only say that they are essential. That is why I would like to reiterate on behalf of the Socialist Group each and every one of the thanks that the previous speakers have justly expressed to me. In the preparation of the report, we lacked a greater dialogue with the experts and managers of the Administration, with the public officials who manage our rights, who accumulate knowledge that is necessary to fine-tune every proposal we make so that they can be applied fairly and effectively. The Government, just to arrive, welcomed the subcommission's report as its own and has already begun that dialogue and the work necessary to carry out administrative measures and legal proposals as set out in the report, and we also thank the Government for that. With the work of the Commission, of the Commission as a whole, of all the groups, we have produced this report, which we have adopted unanimously. If your ladies and gentlemen want, this report can be the first stone of a new pact for culture. I am not talking about a great pact signed with much solemnity, with chambers and tapestry at the bottom - that proposal is beyond my reach - but about an effective daily pact that expresses itself in a greater recognition of the importance of culture, greater respect for those who create it and a greater understanding of their needs and demands, and not only by representatives, but also by those represented. Ladies and gentlemen, Pompey the Great said that living is not necessary, but sailing is. Living is not necessary, no, but listening to music, singing songs, reading books, watching pictures and movies, that is necessary. [[Applauds]] How many millions of songs, books, pictures, movies are lost every year around the world! But I do not pasture the flames, but simply because their possible creators did not have the means to make them. Today, with our vote, we help put that fire out. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u132	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Río Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u133	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I heard it once at a public event and decided that I had it left, it seemed great: before I speak, I want to say a few words. Well, before I speak, I want to say a few words of thanks, first of all - it has already been mentioned - to the Commission's lawyer, to Ignacio Astarloa, for the agglutinating and driving role she has played in a statute that, as the President of the Commission has pointed out, after so many months of work we have managed to adopt unanimously in the Commission, and also to those from my parliamentary group who have worked to make this possible: María José García-Pelayo, who gave me the witness and did most of the work - thank you very much - and Miguel Lorenzo, who has been there all the time - thank you very much -. [[Applauds]] Say these words, I'll talk. To adopt today, and unanimously, this report of the subcommittee to support the creators of the world of culture in our country is a milestone for culture in Spain. From the People's Party we have done everything possible to reach this consensus, and being as we are the majority group, evicted from the Government by this motion of censure with the support of the Batasuns, the independenceists, etc., but majority group, we therefore have something more of a protagonist, as it is democratically appropriate, to have reached this agreement. For the People's Party, this status was fundamental to the extent that we had it on our electoral agenda. Why was it fundamental? Because - and I do not want to extend to these hours - culture is something that has to do with three essential principles for the party of which I am the spokesman. Firstly, because it has to do with personal freedom, personal development and the freedom of individuals. Secondly, because it has to do with social progress; the progress of a society is not measured only - it is measured - by the patents that are registered or by the kilometers of road that are built - it is measured by that too -; it is measured by cultural progress, and this status of the artist is an instrument to further enhance social progress. And thirdly, because it has to do with the essence of our country, with the unity of Spain, something in which I personally believe and whose defence this party is characterized. Culture is the soul of a nation; a homeland is because it shares a common culture and because it has its own culture. Culture does not fall from the sky, which the now vice president would say; culture is made by the creators and interpreted by the musicians, it is interpreted by the dancers, it is interpreted by the actors, we enjoy it thanks to the work of so many creators and so many workers of culture. That's why it's about supporting them, that's why it's about recognizing the specificity of all professionals in the field of culture, safeguarding their rights as workers, and in turn empowering their role as creators. These are just and necessary measures that I hope this Government will take seriously. It is not a question of taking a plane to go to an official concert; it is a question of taking the document seriously, the almost 80 measures included in this report, and of applying to it, of leaving the positions and of listening - I hope - to the Minister of Culture, so that this does not remain on wet paper, so that it does not remain like the fall in VAT from the cinema, which has not yet affected the price of tickets. I would also like to acknowledge the work of those who, without being in the Commission, have contributed decisively to making this a reality today, and I would like to personalise it in Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, Minister of Culture, and in his then Secretary of State, Fernando Benzo. [[Applauds]] From the People's Party we will be as demanding and as vigilant as we would be if there was a People's Party government. It is in this, as I say, to support, safeguard, protect and promote culture in our country, which has to do with freedom, social progress and the essence of Spain. And in that work, in that demand they will have us in a loyal and responsible way, but demanding as well, as the People's Party does. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u135	We turn to the last item on the agenda, concerning the request of the Constitutional Commission for an extension of the deadline granted to the Sub-Commission on Electoral Reform, until 31 December 2018, for the issuance of its report. That request shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin in four minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin. We proceed to vote, first of all, on the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 5/2018 of 27 July 2018 of urgent measures for the adaptation of Spanish law to European rules on data protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 337 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 335 plus 4 telematics votes, 339; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u137	It's validated. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 6/2018, OF 27 JULY, APPROVING AN OFFER OF FOREIGN AND ADDITIONAL PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT FOR THE REFERENCE OF MEDIA TO ASYLATE AND REFUGEES. [[File number 130/000033]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u138	We then proceed to vote on Royal Decree-Law 6/2018 of 27 July, approving an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment for the reinforcement of means in the care of asylum seekers and refugees. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 337 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 335 plus 4 telematics votes, 339; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u139	It's validated. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2018, OF 27 JULY, ON UNIVERSAL ACCESS TO THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM. [[File number 130/000034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u140	We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the Royal Decree-Law 7/2018 of 27 July on universal access to the National Health System. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 341 votes in favour, 173 votes in favour, 177 votes in favour, 133 votes in favour, 31 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u141	It's validated. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has been requested that the Royal Decree-Law be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. We shall proceed to your vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 341 in favour, 336 against, 4 telematics votes, abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u142	It shall be dealt with accordingly by this procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u143	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on the subcommission's report on the drawing up of the artist's statute. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes; 337 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u144	It was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-09-06-CD180906.u145	The last item on the agenda is the request of the Constitutional Commission for an extension of the deadline granted to the subcommission for electoral reform, until 31 December 2018, for the issuance of its report. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Okay. The meeting rose. It was three and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
