ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u1	The meeting was called to order. Before we begin the plenary session, we shall proceed to keep a minute of silence in memory of the young Zamoran teacher, Laura Luelmo. In these moments of sadness and mourning, the Congress of Deputies wishes to convey its condolences to its relatives and relatives and to reiterate its firm commitment to the elimination of all forms of violence against women. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u2	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the inclusion, as the last item on the agenda of the Thursday session, of the request for an extension of the deadline granted to the Electoral Reform Subcommittee, constituted within the Constitutional Commission, for the issuance of its report, until 30 June 2019.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u3	This Presidency shall also submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exchange the order of the debate on non-legislative proposals under points 4 and 5. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Accordingly, they were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u4	We are now beginning, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on urgent measures for the protection of consumers with regard to soil clauses. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u5	Good afternoon, congressmen and congressmen. We are presenting to this House a proposal for a law aimed at resolving the lack of consumer protection in relation to land-use clauses by banks. The relationship between banks and consumers has been deeply damaged following the Supreme Court's decision on the tax on documented legal acts. The proposed law that we are presenting today is also closely related to mortgage loans and the relationship between consumers and banking entities, and in particular on the ground clauses and saturation of the judicial system. In May 2013, the Supreme Court declared the clauses null and void on grounds of abuse. In spite of this, the High Court pointed out that it would render null and void situations finally resolved through the judicial system with the effect of judicial proceedings and quantities satisfied prior to the date of the judgment, which was corroborated in 2015 by another Supreme Court judgement. Since then, various issues have been discussed on numerous occasions, and one of them is retroactivity. The temporary limitation was challenged before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which declared in 2016 that the case law was contrary to Community law and that it was therefore necessary to restore the situation in which the consumer affected by the unfair terms. In this way, the retroactivity of the judgment and the banks' obligation to restore the situation in an effective and immediate time frame are elements that clearly show the way in which this issue should be resolved. This approach could have been accompanied by immediate mechanisms to facilitate compensation for affected consumers, such as out-of-court decisions. However, the Spanish Government opted for another way and approved Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 of 20 January on urgent measures for the protection of consumers with regard to ground clauses, a Royal Decree endorsed by the People's Group, the Citizens' Group, the Joint Group, the Navarro People's Union, the Asturias Forum and the Canary Coalition here in this House, and was once again placed alongside banking entities, seriously harming consumers. The Spanish executive decided not to prioritize a direct settlement, such as out-of-court decisions, and put the solution through the judicial process by increasing the collapse of an already saturated judicial system. To the judicialization of this absolutely unnecessary issue, the decision of the General Council of the Judiciary to activate the measure of the single provincial court was added. The agreement of 25 May 2017 obliges the specialization and concentration of the management of claims and decisions in a limited and unique number per province of trial courts. Thus, for example, in Catalonia there are four courts of first instance that can know and decide on ground clauses; four in the entire autonomous community. The consequences of this measure are the shameful results that demonstrate the ineffectiveness of this system and the oversaturation and collapse of the courts by the concentrated and massive entry of demands. Nevertheless, I take this moment to thank all the judges and staff of the Justice Administration for their daily work, which, despite the saturation and lack of personal and material means, do an impeccable day-to-day job. Catalonia, for example, is the second largest autonomous community in the State in the number of claims still outstanding and with the lowest resolution rate in the whole State: only 10% have been resolved. All this has also generated economic costs for the autonomous governments. Only the first year of operation of this system incurred a cost to the Generalitat of Catalonia of more than 2 million euros. According to the Department of Justice of the Generalitat, the centralized model produces a satisfactory level of resolution up to 7000 demands, above 50%. However, in Catalonia we have 35 000 outstanding claims out of a total of 260 000 in the state. In short, the measure of the single provincial court delays the effective judicial protection of consumers, who are forced to appeal to the courts because the Spanish Government did not respect the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 December 2012, which suggests that States should put in place the appropriate means to put an end to abusive actions. It is therefore necessary to give way to a decentralized model, increasing the number of courts of first instance, and attributing the knowledge of these cases to judicial parties with separation of jurisdiction. It is necessary to amend Royal Decree Law 1/2017 of 20 January 2017, giving way to a new text that obliges banks to resolve outstanding claims within a specific time limit, to inform and to have the services and resources to make it effective. In Esquerra Republicana, we are firmly committed to the out-of-court procedure free of charge, allowing collective lawsuits to be filed and, if necessary, to be mediated; whether the procedure is a registered conciliation or consumer arbitration; and whether the judicial procedure is for exceptional cases. That is why we in our parliamentary group have drawn up this proposal for a law aimed at resolving the situation that has been created to this day. The proposed law does not want to become a tailor's drawer, but to correct the obstacles in the judicial system that prevent the proper handling of complaints. From here on, we are fully open to working in the most immediate future on new avenues to prevent the replay of the situation that we currently have. In short, protection of consumer rights through decentralization and regulatory change is absolutely necessary and priority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u6	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the ground clauses, the succession of judgments issued five and a half years ago - including, for its importance, that of the Supreme Court and that of the Court of Justice of the European Union of exactly two years ago, which is unappealable - gives consumers reason and protection and obliges banks and savings banks to return all the money collected since the signature of the real estate mortgage for the purchase of housing. This proposal for a law which Mrs Telechea has defended is in line with the establishment of alternative measures of extra-judicial solution in order to facilitate the return to the consumer of the quantities wrongly satisfied; necessary measures in view of the inability of the courts to attend to the alluded to open procedures, of the order of a quarter of a million complaints, despite the fact that they were created throughout Spain specialized in soil clauses that already operate since the middle of last 2017. Let me allude to one of them, the Oviedo Court of First Instance No. 6, whose staff was distinguished a few months ago by the General Council of the Judiciary for providing a quick and effective response and solution to a new social problem. This Asturian court applied its own organizational model and the result is agility in the resolution of complaints which, it should be emphasized, respond to individual cases and cannot be dealt with in a general manner. It seems that this judicial formula for the settlement of claims is intended to be applied in other autonomous communities, but in view of its large volume and the accumulated slowness in the issuance of judgements, as well as the foreseeable increase in new claims under several decisions that open the door to claims from banks for improperly collecting amounts prior to May 2013 and the corresponding interests, we find it appropriate to establish new legislative instruments that boost the extra-judicial process to resolve these kinds of cases, which, in view of their large number, contribute to saturating and collapsing the courts with the consequent delay in each judgement. This bill goes that way and will count on my vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u8	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the very serious abuse of the ground clauses has so far received a very disappointing institutional response in our country. We had two rulings of the Supreme Court which were quite incongruent as to the consequences of the facts on which their rulings were based, and this motivated the Court of Justice of the European Union to throw a blow at the Spanish State and to agree on the retroactivity of the bank's obligation to return the amounts collected for these purposes. The answer to this was a decree-law of 2017 that likewise abounded in this, rather than disappointment, cover-up to the bank, and that we voted against. I remind you, Mrs Telechea, because I think you mentioned that the Joint Group voted in favour. As I say, Compromís was against that decree-law because we understood then and we continue to understand that the only thing that it does is to promote the lateness of the bank, to saturate the courts, to generate an extraordinary expense in the system that we must pay among all and unnecessarily subverts the general scheme of the imposition of costs contained in articles 394 et seq. of the Civil Prosecution Act. For all these reasons, we welcome the proposal that you are now bringing us and that I would like to point out that we are going to support it, because you are making your proposal rest in the use of consumer arbitration and, on the other hand, in the registrar conciliation, which we believe can be very positive given that the registered institution in Spain is strong, robust, served by officials with great probity and fairness, officials who have shown that they have a more than commendable level of work. Therefore, we understand that this service can be well performed by them. In any case, we have to bear in mind that the solution to the future would be to have legislation in Spain once and for all to deal with the necessary transparency in procurement. That is why we hope that the bill that the Socialist Party registered a long time ago and was taken into consideration will come - soon - at some point to be debated in this House. But as long as this happens, what interests us is that the problem of the hundreds of thousands of people who do not yet have a solution is solved. And I don't mean just the people who have come to the courts, but the one and a half million people who don't even know that they can claim because they had abusive ground clauses. And they do not know this because the State has not been concerned to compel them to be given information on their own initiative about this situation. We must therefore put an end to this problem. We understand that your proposal can decongest the courts and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u10	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time we already said that the Royal Decree that the Government presented was what was called a patch. What we did not expect was for justice, and above all European justice, to give us reason so forcefully. And not only this, but the most serious thing is that we continue with the same mistake: to judicialize solutions. The General Council of the Judiciary in this case provided its solution, making only one court in each district competent to resolve these issues - imagine in provinces such as Barcelona or Madrid - with the consequent invasion of claims that this entailed. The truth is that it is rather embarrassing because not accepting out-of-court solutions is nothing more or less to take advantage of the inconveniences that justice may have, such as slowness, costs, etc., to try to get the maximum number of people to give them what is rightfully theirs. It is an absolutely pitiful, shameful and torturing performance. We cannot gain a legitimate advantage from judicial situations that we all regret. There is a European judgment that is very clear and tells us the way. The way is that proposed by Esquerra Republicana. We already know that the saying is: banking always wins. It would be good if, for a change, this time it was not the bank that won but the people. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u13	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. It is true the abusive nature of the clauses soiled by the judgment of the Supreme Court 24/2013, confirmed by the 139/2015 and also confirmed by the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2016, which establishes full retroactivity, going beyond the provisions of the Supreme Court at the time. It is true from the previous judicial decisions that Royal Decree-Law 1/2017, which provides for a mechanism of self-composite complaint that cannot alter the legal essence of these formulas, which is the bilateral acceptance by all the parties concerned. Otherwise, it would violate the right to effective judicial protection and the right to a natural judge determined by law. It is true that the jurisdiction is saturated, but also that it could not be considered that at this time this saturation is essentially due to the issues associated with the ground clauses that have been channelled through the royal decree-law mentioned above. This saturation is not entirely attributable to credit institutions, but to the shortcomings of the judicial plant and particularly of the courts which have assigned this competence, in a somewhat paradoxical way within the administration of justice and in contradiction with the Organic Law of the Judiciary, exclusive but not exclusive. It is not entirely true that the agreements entered into between the entities and the customers under Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 have been found null by the courts; on the contrary, the Supreme Court has validated in several judgments the novations of the ground clauses carried out by the entities with their customers who had responded to a transactional agreement. Consequently, situations already consolidated in agreement between the entities and the clients should not be reopened at this time which would only generate more legal uncertainty for both parties and, in short, a greater risk of saturation for the courts. We understand that the statement of reasons reflects, in a sense, section 107 of the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act, the submission of which by the parties is based on voluntariness, as is the case in arbitration and as is the case in section 107. Mention of the need to reach a prior agreement confirms the impossibility of resorting to conflict composition formulas of this law without a prior agreement between the mortgage debtor and the credit institution. The statement of reasons also refers to article 103 of the Mortgage Act, which also requires both parties to agree to submit the dispute, in this case to the registrar of the property and to the merchant. For us it is somewhat unnecessary to define the consumer in this proposal of law, since this definition is made by reference to another norm, which is Decree 1/2007, which defines the definition more precisely. The introduction of a new procedure can also create a significant confusion among consumers who have already come to the Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 and have been satisfied with their claims under that procedure. In view of the fact that the debtor with the ground clause expresses his disagreement with the calculation made by the credit institution, he says that the credit institution may be subject to a subsequent assessment by the registrar, the arbitral body or the competent judicial body, which, in this case, makes the obligation imposed on him more burdensome for the credit institution. Similarly, limiting the ability of the credit institution to deny the claim to the subject of knowledge accreditation also creates, on the one hand, evidence that may be somewhat difficult at that time for the credit institution and, on the other hand, the impossibility of claiming issues such as the absence of the claimed clause or the fact that the claimant is not a consumer in accordance with the legal definition of this concept. The only reason for the entity's opposition provided for in the proposal is to demonstrate sufficient knowledge on the part of the consumer. It is difficult to require credit institutions to establish systems for the accreditation of such sufficient knowledge on the part of consumers with a floor clause in the context of this particular procedure. This is also a real proof of importance for credit institutions, as evidence is transferred to credit institutions in the event of a subsequent jurisdictional dispute. Article 3.5 of the proposal transfers an obligation to credit institutions of a somewhat illegitimate nature from our point of view, because they cannot be imposed on them the obligation to communicate to the Tax Agency and to be forgotten to say that there are in the external holdings the returns agreed in a procedure such as the one we are analysing, which does not conform to the most elementary requirements from the legal system, from our point of view. As far as procedural costs are concerned, we believe that the term 'arançelles' should be used when referring to recorders and in the case of consumer arbitration 'costs' or, alternatively, otherwise. It is contradictory with the Organic Law of the Judiciary and with the procedural laws to assimilate the benefits of free justice to these tariffs or arbitral costs. It also draws our attention to the fact that in the event that the above hypothetically could be attributed directly to financial institutions because we do not know which, if the tariffs are recorded, the tariffs for consumer arbitration or even the courts. After all these reflections have been made and despite the fact that we are quite doubtful about this proposal, we will not say no, but we will abstain in its validation. We will vote in this regard, as we understand that it is true that there is a procedure in Royal Decree 1/2017 that is improveable and that we believe that we would have to change in a somewhat punctual way. That's why we're going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u14	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 'justice emanates from the people and is administered on behalf of the King by judges and judges who are members of the judiciary, independent, immobile, responsible and subject only to the rule of law'. This is what Article 117 of the Constitution says, that justice is administered by the judges, and that is more than enough reason to vote against this proposed law brought to us today by the Republican Left Group, Mrs Telechea, because, as you can certify, for example, the current Mr. Registrar active, Mr. Rajoy, the registrars, I repeat, are not judges. [[Applauds]] In order to administer justice, we cannot create a special jurisdiction in the Property Registry with binding resolutions, with franchising resabios, because one of the things the Constitution did was abolish the solve et repeate principle. In other words, in order to appeal, you have to pay in advance. That limits the right to effective judicial protection and is what is laid down in its rule - its proposal for a law - that I would not say that it is Francoist, but that of course it is contrary to the Constitution, not only because it violates articles 24 and 117, but because, as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says, States that do not have separation of powers do not have a constitution. I know that to you, those who did, for example, the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition of the Republic, by which all the judges were appointed by the President of the Generalitat, this will seem to you a reasonable rule, but it is not, it has quite a few legal errors, as Mrs Sagastizabal has previously shown, but fundamentally it is not a reasonable approach that the registrar of the property resolves as if he were a judge. Nor is it a reasonable issue that banks have to pay before they can appeal and, on the other hand, surprisingly, with respect to Royal Decree-Law 1/2017, the only thing you care about about the tax system is that it is communicated to the Tax Agency, and does not establish a tax system, as established in Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 on our proposal, to prevent this from becoming a tax collection system. It also draws attention to this proposal for a law that you have forgotten that the law on real estate credit is in progress and that is voted on in this House tomorrow, and in this law - on the proposal of the Socialist Party - the ground clauses have been eliminated. Right now virtually no entity establishes them, but it is also that they will be prohibited by law next February, as agreed within the law of real estate credit. If you, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, wanted to have made changes in terms of the ground clauses you could, as the Socialist Group did or as we have done, have introduced your amendments in the processing of this law of real estate credit instead of bringing this rule which, in our view, is unconstitutional and unconstitutional. And at this point I would like to focus on a fundamental issue, that here there have been several parties of which they say they will support the consideration of this rule that they say that the agreement of 25 May 2017 of the General Council of the Judiciary - that is, to concentrate all the resolutions on a single one-person jurisdictional body per province - was a mistake. I believe that we do agree, indeed, but it is now up to us to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. The previous General Council of the Judiciary, which was wrong in this matter and probably in more things, now has to be renewed and can be done from the point of view of those we believe in the independence of the Judiciary and the Constitution, between judges and magistrates by twelve of the twenty members, or it can be done as has been done so far and making mistakes, all appointed by political quotas. In this regard, I would like to address all the members of this House in order to vote in favour of the amendments that we have tabled in the Senate so that we return to the Constitution, to have the governing body of the judges elected in the case of twelve of its twenty members by the judges themselves, guaranteeing independence, because it is a fundamental question to administer justice that the judges are independent, and on this issue, of course, a registrar, a public official, is not independent and what must be guaranteed is the maximum independence of the courts if we really want to aspire to have justice, to - as Ulpiano said - give to each of them their own. [[applause]] In this regard, another issue that has drawn my attention and is cause enough to vote against is that judges, like other officials, receive a salary from the State. As Mrs Telechea herself said, the ground clauses could have cost the Government of Catalonia EUR 2 million so that there would be an administration of justice service that has collapsed today. There, EUR 2 million has been spent on auxiliary justice personnel on a Generalitat budget of EUR 25 billion; compared to tens or even hundreds of millions of euros spent on the independence process, two million euros are spent on guaranteeing citizens' rights. [[Applauds]] And now they intend to spend zero and it is the registrars who, through tariffs, charge customers and banks to resolve the issue of ground clauses. Frankly, this whole bill has nowhere to go and we will certainly vote against its consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u16	Mrs Martín González has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u17	Thank you, President. Today we come to talk about ground clauses again and talk about ground clauses is to talk about abuses and bad banking practices and, therefore, it is also talk about housing. We've been talking a lot about housing in this gallery lately, and that's fine, but it would be good if, in addition to talking, we were able to reach more agreements to guarantee the right to housing; you know, one of those constitutional rights that those who call themselves constitutionalists don't know or want to know. Indeed, the hypocrisy of some politicians is scandalous. [[Applauds]] But before we get into the law proposal that Esquerra brings, let's talk some mortgages. In particular, I want to talk about those mortgages that some groups in this House have with the financial sector or with the vulture funds, because at the harshest time of the crisis the state rescued the financial institutions with hundreds of billions, which we know today we have lost. Banks that had paid millions of dollars to their managers were rescued, among which, by the way, Mr. Rato, the best minister of economics in Spain's history, according to which today he is the new leader of the Spanish triple right, Mr. Aznar. And as that happened, people were being taken out of money with ground terms, with preference, with dozens of abusive expenses, and now that we know that that ransom is not going to recover, that nobody is apparently going to claim it, the question is what kind of mortgages do they have with those entities to forgive them tens of billions of euros? Entities that, in addition, continue to evict precarious families today. Let's keep talking about these metaphorical mortgages because a few months ago we introduced here the Housing Law of the Mortgage Affected Platform, which was a text that neither PP nor Citizens managed to stop in their day by voting against the day of the consideration but that now have been blocking it for three months now in the process of amendments. So, again, the question arises: what kind of mortgages do they have with the bank so as not to allow a law made by the people, which has put their body to defend the most basic rights, not to pass the necessary procedures when there is a majority in this House that wants it that way? More mortgages. In this very plenary the law of real estate credit is going to be discussed; by the way, we proposed in solitary, and long before the Supreme's judgment came out, that mortgage expenses would be assumed by the bank. Well, ten years after the bubble broke out and after everything that has happened in this country, this House is going to legislate on the granting of mortgage credit without wanting to guarantee the protection of the right to housing when people cannot afford to pay, without ensuring that people are not left homeless and in debt for life or without guaranteeing, for example, the protection of people affected by the IRPH, that abusive index. A law, in short, that will be passed in this House precisely because it has the approval of the bank and neither PP, nor Citizens, nor PSOE, nor PNV, nor PDECAT have been able to legislate prioritizing the right to housing. We have already told you other times: so distant in some subjects, but so united in their mortgages with those above. And even more mortgages, it's also very recent. The Government has adopted rent-related measures in its Council of Ministers a few days ago but, look where, they did not want to include that abuses can be limited in the price increases that so many people are suffering today. What a coincidence that they announced that decree just a month after vulture funds, like Blackstone, threatened to withdraw their investments from the country. The question is clear: what kind of mortgage do you have with those vulture funds, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Or perhaps this question should be addressed directly to your Minister for Economic Affairs. So correct and ensure compliance with the agreement, which they have signed for. After this review of metaphorical mortgages, let's go back to the bill that Esquerra brings for consideration. Indeed, we also think that Decree-Law 1/2017 is an absolute shame. Our parliamentary group not only objected to the decree, but demanded that the people who have suffered the fraud of the clauses should be returned in full, and we also appealed that decree to the Constitution. That is to say, this decree that the PP and PSOE have agreed - it is well to remember - is an absolute disaster that has led to the blockade of the courts and has left alone the people concerned faced with a bureaucracy of the financial institutions. All that is clear, but, despite agreeing with the spirit of Esquerra's bill, we also see deep flaws and errors that seem serious to us. We do not explain that they do not envisage measures to speed up the situation of the courts beyond their commitment to the new extra-judicial procedures. We do not understand that they do not bet on a sanctioning system for entities when they are systematically engaged in blocking out-of-court solutions by betting that the despair of the people concerned will lead them to sign a bad agreement. Nor do we understand, taking into account the immense inequality of forces between the parties, the insistence on individualised negotiation without public administration control that guarantees the rights of consumers. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of the inclusion and we tell you what Tardà said last week: there is still time; there is still time to modify and improve this text in its amendment process; there is still time for you to vote on general budgets that people need and, ultimately, there is time to build a political future in which the reactionary alliance of PP, Vox and Citizens does not fit. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u18	Mrs Tundor Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u19	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialist Group, consumer and user protection policies are a priority, and we are aware that this protection must be increased in the face of certain sectors, such as the financial sector, because of their technical complexity and the vulnerability of all consumers to this sector. We are also aware that legislation is not sufficient if there are no adequate mechanisms to ensure its implementation. The economic crisis has increased public awareness of the abuses in the financial sector, and this is because the crisis has highlighted both the vulnerability of consumers to this sector and the abuses to which they have been subjected in signing the credits. That is why we need to work harder and better to enforce our rights as consumers. We are aware that the lack of information or preparation has important implications for decision-making and that it has an impact when we talk about banking products. When we do not have the capacity to make decisions, mainly because of lack of knowledge, consumers delegate our decisions or let ourselves be influenced to a lesser or greater degree by third parties in our environment. In the financial field, we often rely on the financial entity and are advised on its offer of products and services. However, it is important to bear in mind that financial institutions are companies that follow the economic principle of maximizing their profits and that it is up to the public authorities to ensure that consumer rights are scrupulously respected. In view of the increase in the claims of affected consumers requesting the restitution of the amounts paid under the soil clauses following the judgment of the Court of Justice of 21 December 2016, Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 of 20 January of urgent measures for the protection of consumers with regard to soil clauses was adopted, the purpose of which was to establish a series of measures to facilitate the return to the consumer of the quantities unduly satisfied under certain soil clauses in mortgage-guarantee loan or credit contracts. The courts created to deal with the unprecedented avalanche of lawsuits do not give enough, say the affected, who wait more than a year just to start processing their cases, and recognize it by the judges, lawyers and officials. Ladies and gentlemen, 260 000 petitions, with a first-instance jam that is beginning to move to the second. Banks, despite losing 97% of their sentences, are appealing and creating a second bottleneck for mortgages to despair. The president of the Murcia High Court of Justice was clear in pointing to the culprit of the attack: at the beginning of the judicial course he assured that the banks are unwarrantedly wasting the system with an established and easily preventable litigation that consumes huge public resources because they do not negotiate extrajudicially with customers in cases where the courts have already set criteria, and they do so after having benefited from huge public aid to overcome the crisis. There have been many initiatives put forward by the Socialist Group to help solve this problem. In this regard, in June 2017 the Socialist Parliamentary Group submitted a proposal to reject the agreement adopted by the General Council of the Judiciary for the creation of specialized provincial courts to hear disputes over ground clauses. In July 2017, with more than 3.5 million people affected by the land-use clauses, we asked the Minister of Economy what measures the government intended to take to get the banks back everything that was unduly charged to consumers as a result of the land-use clauses. In October 2017 we presented a non-law proposal for the bank to return the ground clauses, know how many returns had been made to date and which entities were refusing to return them. Similarly, the development of the additional provision that we negotiate in the handling of the draft law on alternative dispute resolution in the field of consumption, which will oblige financial institutions to participate in the proceedings of that alternative dispute resolution entity in the field of its activity, remains pending. In February 2018 we registered a bill backed by Congress to promote the transparency of contracts and protect consumers from abusive clauses so as to ensure that they have understood not only the general meaning of the agreement, but also its legal and economic scope. In June 2018, at the appearance of President Pedro Sánchez, he defended strengthening justice and restoring the confidence of citizens. In October, the Minister of Consumer Affairs assumed the need to achieve consumer protection throughout the State and to promote responsible, sustainable and accessible consumption, which will entail legislative changes to improve the application of consumer protection standards. With regard to the proposal for a law submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, although the starting diagnosis is shared, not so much the proposed solution, since they propose, in the event of disagreement with the claim or specific amounts claimed by the consumer, two ways: conciliation before the Property Registry, whose resolution would be binding and enforceable, and consumer arbitration. On this mechanism, we believe that it should be the consumer, who has a claim against the credit institution, who has the active legitimation to initiate the conciliation procedure in case the institution refuses to pay what it considers appropriate, and not the credit institution obliged to initiate the conciliation, as laid down in the proposal for a law. On the other hand, we believe that the resolution of these issues could be more appropriate through the future financial client protection authority announced by the President of the Government and that it will bring together some of the functions of the Bank of Spain and the National Securities Market Commission, the most effective mechanism possible to defend citizens and that it develops the first additional provision of Law 7/2017 of 2 November on alternative resolution of consumer disputes, in particular if its resolutions are binding. We want to move that the Government is working, as I have already done, on various lines of this matter, both of regulatory reform and of reinforcement before the courts in order to achieve effective consumer protection and, in turn, an impetus for out-of-court resolution measures that avoid a further collapse of jurisdiction and abuse of access to them in order to resolve disputes. For socialists it is absolutely essential that transparency is raised to a general level so that abusive clauses, ground clauses, early maturity clauses and all kinds of consumer abuse disappear. Thank you for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u20	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Marcos Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Esquerra Group is bringing to the debate a truly surprising initiative. It calls, at the end of December 2018, to repeal the measures that were put in place in January 2017 to protect consumers from soil clauses. It intends to organize ex novo a new system of return and claims to entrust this new task to the registrars of the property - yes, to the registrars of the property -. That is, two years after the entry into force of the Royal Decree on the Protection of Consumers with regard to Soil Clauses, which was validated by this House, the Esquerra Group urgently demands - urgently, now - to repeal what works and put in place other extra-judicial mechanisms, and argues those emergencies with data prior to 2017. Perhaps the Esquerra group is so caught up in its process that it has not realized that we are about to start 2019 or perhaps, in the parallel reality of independence, nothing has happened in recent years. As the clock stopped them in their mendacious interpretation of 1714, they are not aware of what happens every day in the 21st century. [[Applauds]] It is also likely, ladies and gentlemen, that the drivers of the ERC initiative, and I would like to understand that they alone, have not had time to review the last six-monthly report of the Commission on the monitoring, control and evaluation of complaints made under the measures adopted in January 2017. It's a public report. It was registered in this House on 4 December and its brief reading, simply with the graphics, should have encouraged the proposing group to withdraw this initiative and take advantage of its quota to defend something less outdated. The Commission, as you know, perhaps with the exception of Mr ERC, has already produced three half-yearly reports. In the latter compares monthly claims and returns between September 2017 and August 2018. I'll give you a data. If the cumulative total of requests for return of ground clauses is 1.16 million applications, in the last year analysed, from September 2017 to August 2018, it is only 113 000, with a monthly downward trend. Developments, ladies and gentlemen, are so low that of these 113 000 applications in the last year only 3500 correspond to the last month studied, the one of August; 3500 and descending. I have brought you two data - it shows two graphs -, new requests and pending requests to update. See the evolution and then tell me if the problem is from now or a few years ago. The Commission's report not only analyses the implementation of the measures of the Royal Decree of January 2017, which provided for mechanisms for the return of these clauses only through an extra-judicial channel to reduce litigation, but also transcribes the information received from the General Council of the Judiciary on the data collected by the specialised courts. This information from the courts also shows a clear downward trend in both the cases brought in and those resolved by the courts, which have now been functioning for a year and a half. In Madrid, for example, the 101 bis court is exclusively responsible for this. Well, it's true that there was a logical peak of business entered two quarters after its launch, but since that time, which is the end of 2017, a year ago, the trend is clearly downwards. These specialized courts have already resolved a quarter of the 300,000 cases brought in, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality of the facts; but the Republican Left Group's proposed law sees another parallel reality. In the explanatory statement they speak of a supposed procedural collapse and argue it with information from the beginning of 2017, but since we are not at the beginning of 2017, their proposal comes at least late, only at the very least, because this Thursday we will also approve in this House the new law regulating real estate credit contracts, which completely eliminates them, and because the curious solution proposed by Esquerra Republicana to this alleged collapse passes by granting to the registrars of the property a new line of activity, the registrar reconciliation and consumer arbitration in all, all the claims of the ground clauses. In all, ladies and gentlemen, because Esquerra intends to repeal what is working, the Royal Decree of 2017, and in return to fill new tasks for the property registrars. And why the loggers? What can be the reason for this preference of such a separatist group as ERC by a body of as much tradition in Spain as the registrars? I confess that I cannot decipher the reason, and since at this hour of the afternoon we are almost in the family and the Christmas spirit already reigns, I will confess to you that I think of a truly unsuspected reason. Perhaps, only perhaps, Esquerra Republicana is so sorry for the unacceptable way in which they collaborated in the censorship of a great president of the government that they may be thinking of relieving him of that excess by helping to expand the fees of the registry. [[Applauds]] In all cordiality, ladies and gentlemen, do not worry, Mr de Esquerra, Mr Rajoy does not need any of you, seriously; instead, you would need some grams of your well-known wisdom to withdraw an extemporary initiative which my group will obviously vote against, an initiative, Socialists, which I believe by responsibility the government group should also vote against. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u22	Thank you very much. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANIZATION FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 7/2014, OF 12 NOVEMBER, ON THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION OF CRIMINAL AFFAIRS AND CONSIDERATION OF CRIMINAL JUDICIAL RESOLUTIONS IN THE EUROPEAN UNION. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 122/00290]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u23	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, an organic reform of the Organic Law 7/2014, of 12 November, on the exchange of information on criminal history and consideration of criminal judicial decisions in the European Union. [[EAJ-PNV]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u24	Thank you very much, President. As we pointed out in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative initiative presented, Framework Decision 2008/675, on the consideration of convictions between Member States of the Union in the context of a new criminal procedure, has established an area of justice based on mutual trust, such as the Union, where people can move freely and establish themselves and where borders have disappeared; a European area of justice which requires that convictions against persons tried in one Member State be taken into account in another Member State as if they had been dictated by their own jurisdiction, both for the harmful effects and for the defendant's supporters, and both in the pre-trial phase, and during this and the enforcement phase of the sentence. This is called the principle of equivalence, which is to give previous judgments of Union countries the same effect as previous nationals under national law, not only in criminal proceedings but also in order to prevent further infringements, with the aim of developing a common area of freedom, security and justice. Or, in other words, that what a person has done in one Member State, the criminal offences committed, are not indifferent to the other States in order to prevent new criminal acts in their fields by the same person or to take them into account in a new criminal procedure for new acts committed in that other country. However, Organic Law 7/2014 on the exchange of information on criminal history and consideration of criminal judicial decisions in the European Union, when incorporating the above-mentioned framework decision into the State system, introduces a number of limitations in the consideration of judgments of jurisdictions of member countries of the Union that emptys content and deprives of effectiveness the principle of equivalence that the framework decision seeks to implement at the European level. Thus, explained in a brief way, the organic law denies virtuality to the judgments handed down by the courts of other Member States of the Union prior to 15 August 2010 and also denies virtuality to the principle of equivalence in relation to judgments handed down in Spain in subsequent proceedings followed by crimes committed before the foreign sentence, i.e. practically in the vast majority of the cases likely to accumulate. These objective and temporary limits, which were referred to as introducing organic law, make a substantial difference in the law applicable in the Union between the Spanish territory and that of other Union countries in which these limitations have not been established, so we could say that Organic Law 7/2014 is significantly affecting the unity of Union law. The Basque Parliamentary Group therefore proposes that this organic law be amended to ensure that it is better suited to the purpose of the framework reference decision, which, without seeking to harmonise the effects that each legislation recognises with previous judgments of other countries, does seek to ensure that European law is applied uniformly throughout the territory of the Union, whereby each Member State recognises criminal judgments handed down by other countries the same effects that it recognises to them and that, as I said, organic law limits greatly and in a different way than they do in the rest of the countries of the Union. These limitations have tangible practical consequences, not abstract issues. Thus, the lack of effectiveness of judgments of Union countries as if they were their own at the execution stage and, in particular, in the procedures for the recasting of sentences and the establishment of a maximum limit of compliance, by excluding the only case in which accumulation is permitted by Spanish case law, entails the paradoxical effect of extending the period of deprivation of liberty for a convicted person in respect of which he would have to comply if all the judgments had been handed down in Spain. It is even more surprising that the paradoxical effect presented is the perplexity of excluding the possibility of accumulating sentences handed down by courts in Member States and, on the other hand, not being made - in accordance with the existing case-law interpretation - with those handed down by courts in third countries, which is an essential difference in the treatment of judgments handed down by courts in Union countries in respect of those handed down by courts in third countries. That is to say, it is less effective than the judgments of Union countries than those of third countries, which is a clear setback to progress in the construction of the European space. The other limitation to which I referred, the temporary limitation, established in the organic law, in order to exclude judgments handed down by other Member States before 15 August 2010 - which is precisely the deadline for transposition of the framework decision - also means reducing the effectiveness of the recognition of the effects of judgments of other States to very limited cases, only to the most recent judgments, to those handed down since August 2010; and it is not considered that in other Member States the equivalent effect of judgments of the other Member States on the date of the conviction has been legislatively limited in their transposition rules. This establishes in the organic law a substantial difference - another - between the law applicable in Spain and the rest of the countries of the Union, which also significantly affects the unity of the law, given that a Spanish judgment will have effect in France even before August 2010 and, however, a French judgment of the same date will have no effect in Spain, both for the harmful effects and for the beneficial effects for the defendant. The amendment that the Basque Parliamentary Group urges of Organic Law 7/2014 does not ignore that this law has been prosecuted and declared in accordance with the framework decision by the Supreme Court, although with a dissenting vote of 40% of its members, nor does it ignore that the European Court of Human Rights has declared that it does not violate the principle of non-retroactivity of criminal law. However, this does not mean that another type of incorporation into Spanish law of the framework decision is not possible, especially if it is better suited to the purpose of creating an area of freedom, justice and security that allows the playing of the principle of equivalence not only in the negative for the convicted person. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that the application of Organic Law 7/2014 is applicable to all types of offenders, including minor offences, which are often committed in a globalised and easily communicated world on both sides of the border in border areas, as well as that Organic Law 7/2014 generates situations of different treatment to European citizens convicted in some other country, in addition to Spain, which we believe creates materially unjustified discrimination, fragments the European judicial area and is inconsistent with the principle of mutual recognition. This situation created by the different organic treatment law will also have detrimental effects on a significant number of European citizens in proceedings in Spain. In short - and I am finalizing, President - the proposed amendment to Organic Law 7/2014 seeks to clear the application inequalities of the framework decision in the Spanish order with respect to the rest of the countries of the Union that have transposed the framework decision in a very different way from how it has been done in this state. To this end, it is proposed to revert to the text of the bill adopted by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2013 and to the similar text that this House referred to the Senate on 17 July 2014, which did not include the current temporary and objective limitations contained in article 14.2 and the single additional Organic Law 7/2014. The text of the draft law was also reported favourably by the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State, in which the latter pointed out that the draft made an equalization of the principle of equivalence in the positive, for example, in the accumulation, and also in the negative for the defendant, in the recidivism and other effects, further stressing the need for it to be an organic law, precisely because, among other things, it affected the determination of the maximum limit of compliance in accordance with article 76 of the Criminal Code and the application of the cumulativeity of article 988 of the Criminal Procedure Act. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are presenting seeks to improve the compatibility of Organic Law 7/2014 with Framework Decision 2008/675, and in turn to standardise the application of Union law in the area of freedom, justice and security, which is the Union itself. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u25	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proposal for a law put forward by Mr Legarda of the Basque Parliamentary Group has an impact on the effective development of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the harmonisation resulting from the Treaty of Lisbon, which still has possibilities for legislative improvement in Spain, as has just been explained. It is impossible to summarise in three minutes a criterion covering the different changes that are the subject of this initiative, which I will support, since it opens the parliamentary work around the Organic Law 7/2014, of 12 November, of exchange of information on criminal history and consideration of criminal judicial decisions in the European Union. It is a law that, when it was processed throughout 2014, allowed a great deal of progress for the better transposition of European framework decisions and directives in the area of mutual recognition of criminal decisions. Then it was determined that it affected precepts of an organic nature and hence the need for an absolute majority that finally - it is worth highlighting and remembering - was immense. We thought that with that it would be relatively easy to incorporate future changes and move forward with agility in the development of that criminal justice area in harmony with the European Union as a whole. We see that, although, in honour of the truth, these are issues that leave little room for politics and that have a technical component that was then - as I understand that is being pursued right now with this initiative - a greater effectiveness that is concrete in the need to apply the principle of equivalent effects between judgments of member countries of the European Union, always referring to the stage of execution of a sentence imposed and to the recasting of the time of its execution. This makes a great deal of sense not only for the implementation of the rights to those investigated and convicted, but also for the victims themselves, since we are talking about criminal proceedings on cross-border crime in the area of freedom, security and justice that has been built in the European Union without border controls. Since 2014, the European Parliament itself, in compliance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, has been working on the specific assessment of this area and also in the field of criminal justice in order to promote the full application of the principle of mutual recognition and in particular in the light of the legal effects of previous convictions on a new criminal procedure. My vote will be in favour of the consideration. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u28	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Thank you very much, Madam President. The Courts adopted Organic Law 7/2014 in 2014 after the Government took six years to incorporate the framework decision that obliges it to take into account the sentences imposed by the courts of other Member States of the European Union. It took another year and a half to notify the European Commission of the transposition, preventing it from being able to analyse whether it had been carried out correctly and using this delay to try to consolidate in the courts a situation contrary to the European standard and the rights of prisoners. It did so with the aim of achieving the absolute ineffectiveness of the framework decision in order to prolong the punishments and hinder the access of Basque political prisoners to freedom. It is another case of legal engineering, as was the Parot doctrine, which is part of an exceptional legislation, which from Euskal Herria Bildu we understand it is time to deactivate. The judgment recently delivered by Strasbourg has not entered into force to assess whether the transposition was correct because that is the case with the Court of Luxembourg, but the fact is that only Spain introduced into it, using its majority in the Senate, the limitations that the PNV proposal proposes to repeal and which Euskal Herria Bildu will support, limitations such as that would not be taken into account in judgments handed down before August 2010. There were serious discrepancies in the different Spanish courts - National Court, Supreme Court, Constitutional Court - as to whether to raise a preliminary question before the Court of Strasbourg; it was a manoeuvre by the Minister of the Interior of the Grand-Marlaska today that prevented two sections of the National Court from asking Luxembourg. More than three years have passed until Strasbourg has ruled without clarifying the compatibility of the law with the framework decision and prisoners who could benefit from the European standard remain in prison. Only those who see the question of prisoners in terms of revenge applaud the Strasbourg judgment and refuse to repeal the emergency measures introduced by the PP in order to disregard the sentences served in France and thus delay the release of prisoners. Similarly, those who say they are betting on a change in prison policy can only support the reform proposal if they want to be credible. The solution to this legal argument, reached at this point, is political: reform the law and return to the text that was initially adopted in this Congress. Finally, I would like to point out that the People's Party took advantage of the Senate process that I mentioned to amend also what would later be Law 23/2014, on the application of the mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters, which regulates, among other matters, the situation of prisoners transferred to Spain to serve the sentence imposed in another State. In this case, it introduced an amendment to try to prevent prisoners serving the sentence imposed in another Member State from obtaining the accumulation of sentences in Spain. I mean, it had the same purpose. Therefore, it is not the one we are debating today that is the only necessary reform. The same should also be done with Law 23/2014. But, I insist, we welcome the initiative that is being presented and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u29	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I had a prepared speech, but I have to change it because I am absolutely amazed that a gentleman in the category of Mr Legarda - who is currently speaking on the telephone and cannot listen to me; he can hear me, but not listen - has omitted the most relevant matter on this issue. Mr Legarda comes to us to talk about mutual trust, union, freedom, justice and security, and violins sound after his voice as he talks about human rights and precious things; precious, if not because the European Court of Human Rights has already ruled on the matter, something that has been acknowledged by the representative of Bildu himself, but not by the representative of the PNV. How to see it, Mr. Legarda! How is it possible for you to steal the primordial element in this matter? You cannot have a serious legal debate if you are part of that omission, and I came to have a serious legal debate. Do you know what's serious here? What is serious is the judgment - I go directly to the Strasbourg judgment, precisely because it is what you want to omit - of October 23 of this year, 2018, matter: Arrospid Sarasola and others. Who is this principal plaintiff? A man sentenced to more than 3,000 years in prison for eleven different criminal proceedings, especially the car bomb attack in the square of the Dominican Republic -12 dead civilian guards, 44 wounded civilian guards and 17 injured travellers - and also responsible for the car bomb attack in Hipercor, Barcelona, with 21 people killed and 46 people injured. For this gentleman, relying on a right that even butchers have, asked the Kingdom of Spain before the European Court of Human Rights and invoked Framework Decision 2008/675 on Justice and Home Affairs of the European Council - by the way, not the Council of Europe, I say this for translators of the Sub-Directorate-General of the Ministry of Justice - and it is settled by the European Court of Human Rights. Stop the violins, Mr. Legarda! Do you know what they reply to you about the alleged violation of article 7 of the Convention, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which invoked that fragment which states: 'No one may be convicted of an act or omission which, at the time it was committed, does not constitute an infringement under national or international law. Nor can a more serious penalty be imposed...', a principle that we know all jurists? He is told that both in the domestic law applicable at the time when the appellants committed the offences and at the time when the decisions of accumulation or maximum limitation of compliance have been taken, and at the time when the persons concerned requested the accumulation, the court considers that the decisions appealed did not entail a change in the scope of the penalties imposed. When invoking article 5.1 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights - in particular, the passage: Everyone has the right to liberty and security. No one can be deprived of his liberty, except in cases where, for example, he is illegally detained, etc. - the Court of Human Rights tells him - I am going to conclude because I am running out of time - that the prison periods questioned by the plaintiffs cannot be described as unforeseeable or not authorized by law within the meaning of article 5.1 of the Convention. So, I read it in front of you, when I probably didn't even have to get here, because I thought you would have the intellectual honesty to recognize that... Yes, sir, yes, the intellectual honesty to at least make it known that this recent sentence exists, because without it we don't understand anything. It seems that here we have opted for something that is completely irregular, compared to other countries that are much more benevolent. No, sir, the framework decision is incorporated with the peculiarities of each country to achieve - you face whatever you want - the results, to achieve the effects that the Council has arranged and proposes. And that is how it has been done in Spain, and the European Court of Human Rights recognizes that the way it has been done in Spain is perfectly correct. You have a special interest in changing, with the subterfuge of a technical change, in fact Article 14(3) and (4). Because, as they have put forward this proposal for a law, they seem to be looking for some sort of technical correction, at first glance, but in fact, as we have seen here, what it was about is that, dissatisfied with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, they want to change the rule, and the poison comes in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the article that they want to change. So, who is really interested in what the PNV proposes goes directly to points 2 and 3. I'm done. I am not yet clear what the Socialist Group thinks about this. In Citizens we have three unnegotiable conditions to grant criminal benefits to the ages. The first, the renunciation of the terrorist gang; the second, repentance; the third, collaboration with the justice system to clarify the 379 outstanding cases. The cessation of bullets, or the silence of pistols, does not deserve any prize. Are these conditions given or are they not given? If given, one could think of special conditions, specific benefits for individuals. Meanwhile, all this is nothing more than a subterfuge to show that there is an imperfect standard in Spain or that it does not have the standards of democratic quality and criminal technique, of international legal technique, that it should have. You have stolen, Mr. Legarda, the most important point. What a shame! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u31	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Our group shares practically all the elements that the Basque Nationalist Party has brought us in its proposal for an organic law, because, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal simply corrects a new situation that makes the justice of the Spanish State - or the Kingdom of Spain, as Mr Girauta said - a new anomaly vis-à-vis the democracies of the European Union as a whole. This is a mistransposition of Framework Decision 2008/675; a mistransposition that violates the principle of equivalence of convictions in other Member States of the European Union; a new error that prevents the same effect to be had by the resolutions of other Member States and those of the Spanish State, the Kingdom of Spain, thereby breaking the confidence that should be assumed within the framework of the European Union in that single area of freedom, justice and security. This proposal, which we have at present, seeks to reverse the renaissance of the criminal law of the enemy, that criminal right of exception, that tendency of the political power to violate the instruments of the rule of law to accentuate repressive instruments with the sole intention of defending its concept of State with its own view of what, with its own view, identifies as threats. In short, a transposition of European Union law that is absolutely inadequate and I do not say so, says the European Commissioner of Justice herself, Mrs Vera Jourová, who, in response to questions raised by MEP Izaskun Bilbao in 2015 and 2016, warned that this new error could lead to new sanctions for the Spanish State. More fines, ladies and gentlemen, more fines that come to consolidate the Spanish state at the top, at the top of the ranking of the states fined for non-compliance with Community rules. To illustrate the impact we can say that only in five years Spain has already paid about 54 million euros in sanctions; seven out of every ten euros imposed in the form of sanctions on the States of the European Union fall on the citizens of the Spanish State. Let us stop being ridiculous, let us stop paying fines for the abandonment and incapacity of the government in office. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we note that with Europeanism some political forces do the same as with constitutionalism, they consume it on the letter. When it is time to apply the dogma of austerity that comes to us from Europe, the directives are applied to rajatabla, but when there are guidelines in defense of social, human and environmental rights, it is already another attitude, there are other haste to adapt the Spanish state's order, highlighting once in a while that shameful position of the Spanish brand in justice. It is not necessary to recall how we have come to this exceptionality, since if we reread the texts of 2013, if we review the preliminary draft that came out of the Council of Ministers to transpose the European directive, the application of the principle of equivalence in the accumulation and recasting of convictions was fully reflected. This text was absolutely endorsed, as has already been said, by reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, by reports of the Council of State and by the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court itself, especially the judgment of 13 March 2014. So, where did the cod that we tried to fix today come from, despite some? The Senate. It was the Senate that surprised itself and others with self-amendments that emptied this principle of equivalence in terms of accumulation, limitation and recidivism, all of which was justified by the perception of the negative political consequences for Mr Rajoy's Government of the correct transposition of that framework decision. That is to say, once again take possession of the tools of the criminal law of the enemy that we will not tire of denouncing. In addition, in January 2015 it was ratified by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, then presided over by Don Manuel Marchena. I think it sounds to you like Don Manuel Marchena, the one preferred by the People's Party to preside over the General Council of the Judiciary, that exceptional judge, according to Mr Cosidó, who will also sound to you, that of the Wasaps. The then President of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, who is the one who will judge Catalan prisoners and political prisoners, at that time endorsed this change - wrong, we insist - of criterion and also forced the interpretation of the framework decision, arguing that the principle of equivalence could be derogated from. It was a resolution which, moreover, had a clearly rebellious attitude towards the law of the European Union, since it failed to fulfil its obligation to formulate a question prejudicial to European law on the application of the European directive, a question prejudicial to which the Court of Human Rights, on which it has just been referred, had not been asked, but to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which was competent in this context, that is to say, the Court of Luxembourg, in a situation in which thirteen of the judges and magistrates of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court had to seek protection from the interferences which they were suffering from the then Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, and the then Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that we are going to vote in favour of the inclusion, in the hope that the People's and Citizens' Party will also do so - although the hope in Citizens I think we have been evaporated - because we understand that, although the arguments for defending human rights, the guarantees of the rule of law may not convince them, if they could convince them that the Spanish State will continue to pay fines and more fines that come out of the pockets of citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us ensure that the Spanish State takes its rightful place and that its justice regains the confidence of the other States of the European Union in that unique and desirable area of freedom, justice and security which must be the European Union. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u33	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Council Framework Decision 2008/675/JHA, under the principle of subsidiarity and in order to approximate the legal provisions of the developing Member States of the area of freedom, security and justice, laid down the framework within which convictions between Member States can be taken into account in the context of a new criminal procedure under the guiding principle of equivalence of foreign and national convictions. It specifies that it does not aim at the enforcement by one Member State of decisions taken in another Member State nor is it intended to harmonise the consequences of different laws, but rather to allow consequences to be linked to an earlier sentence in so far as they are in turn linked to previous national penalties under the domestic law of each State. The Framework Decision reiterates that the various national solutions and procedures must be respected. With the adoption in our country of Organic Law 7/2014 this framework decision was transposed, certain that late, establishing the solution own, we could say, with the corresponding conditions and limits, so that the final convictions issued in other Member States can be taken into account and deploy their effects in Spain. It should be emphasized that this transposition solution was adopted with a very high degree of agreement in the Courts. Indeed, there were no amendments to Article 14 in the handling of the law in this House, and even the same Basque parliamentary group did not consider it necessary to do so. The amendments and the single additional provision were incorporated in the Senate on grounds of legal certainty. Already in the debate on the Senate's amendments, the spokesman for the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Llamazares, even came to appreciate as positive and enlightening the amendments tabled by the People's Group leading to the current text, which today, however, is being questioned. No other group directly referred to article 14, nor did any group, including the Basque one, refer to the additional provision cited above. The law was passed by 294 votes in favour, 92% on the vote, 5 against from the Basque Group and 20 abstentions from the Plural Left and the Mixed Group, which made a total of just over 5%. The Commission's report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation by Member States of this Framework Decision dated 2 June 2014 found and concluded that the level in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Framework Decision varied considerably among the twenty-two Member States that had already transposed the Decision by that date. Therefore, let us not come here to brag on the part of anyone that there is a European solution to a Spanish solution, because the differences are very wide. The Commission therefore stated that it will monitor and examine whether Member States are properly applying the principle of equivalence. In Spain, as is known, judicial developments have been controversial. If judgment 186/2014 of 13 March decided that prison sentences for terrorism which had been handed down in France against the same subject, equalizing their effects as if they were national criminal records, the subsequent decision contained in the agreement of the Plenary of the Second Chamber dated 13 January 2015 ruled the contrary. The existence of a new law was the reason that was invoked. At present this is the case law line maintained, although with outstanding particular votes. For its part, in the recent judgment of 23 October 2018 referred to here, Arróspide Sarasola case and others against Spain, the European Court of Human Rights has found unanimously that the decisions of the Supreme Court, even applying the legal limitations, do not change the maximum duration of the sentences of imprisonment, always fixed in thirty years in accordance with the Criminal Code, and that in the adopted resolution there is no violation of article 7 of the Convention - there is no penalty without offence - and since the sentences did not lead to a modification of the sentences, the prison periods discussed by the plaintiffs could not be characterized as either unauthorized or unpredictable in the applicable laws, so neither is there a violation of article 5.1 of the Convention, the right to liberty and security. On the other hand, some of the new proposals contained in this initiative are provided for in the preamble to the current rule as interpretative guidelines, as is the case with the rule of the first subparagraph and, in particular, the application of effects with equivalence in the pre-criminal phase during the trial itself and in the execution of the sentence imposed. As far as paragraph 3 is concerned, the proposal can certainly be considered superfluous, because only a final sentence can be taken into account for the purposes of a criminal record. And as far as paragraph 4 is concerned, it does not imply any change beyond the change of location. It is Rule 2 of this precept that is aimed at suppressing the two current assumptions that prevent any effect of the foreign judgment on the two aspects that are contemplated and that have the contents, which I will not repeat, because Mr Legarda has already reported them here in his presentation. As far as the single additional provision is concerned, its content - not to take account of convictions handed down by a court of a Member State prior to 15 August 2010, the date, as is known, for the enforcement of the framework decision at the latest - expresses a power of the national legislator which does not contradict the framework decision, as reflected in Article 3(5) thereof. This has been highlighted by the Supreme Court and is reflected in the argumentation of the European Court of Human Rights' own judgment. Nor has there been a preliminary question which enabled the Court of Justice to decide on the correctness of the interpretation made by this legislation on the non-accumulation of Spanish and French sentences, although this is still open. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the framework in which the initiative presented by the Basque Parliamentary Group arises. Taking all these data into account, it is difficult to agree that the current regulation would entail a radical negation of the principle of equivalence. The Socialist Group is sensitive to the importance of the regulation carried out in 2014 and to the progress it has made in this area to converge in the European Area of Justice and Freedom, in a line similar to the other Member States of the Union, which was highlighted by most political groups on that date. In line with the Commission's position, we believe that it is necessary to study and monitor whether the Member States properly apply the principle of equivalence and whether or not the legal effects of foreign convictions are equivalent, a prerequisite, among other things, for further progress, in order to make another leap forward in this area, even beyond the provisions of the current framework decision. However, to date we do not know whether this study has been carried out and, if so and within its framework, what assessment deserves the transposition that was made in Spain in 2014. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, given the state of the matter and the existing jurisprudence, doctrinal and political debate, we believe that new avenues of collective progress should be explored in the European Union in this area, and our group, in this regard, will decide and adopt its position in the light of the existing debate and, of course, stressing something that I believe is obvious, namely that it does not only concern certain persons or certain offences, but that this is a matter of general scope to which it is certainly very difficult to apply that concept of enemy criminal law. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u35	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Legarda, let's be clear, what does the PNV owe to the ETA terrorists convicted in France? What do you owe them? Because we are talking about this; we are talking about an initiative whose potential beneficiaries have names and surnames, have served or are serving sentences in France and have outstanding sentences in Spain. Let us be clear, then, and let us not allow as much legal havoc as it is in this rostrum this afternoon to prevent us from seeing the real and very political objective of this proposal: that the condemned ages may accumulate sentences and be released first. It is a proposal to amend the plan simultaneously to the General Courts, the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights, which is part of a line of action of the PNV in this Chamber that deserves some consideration. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because you have a limited amount of initiatives and the issues that have recently been circumscribed are surprising. For example, they proposed several times the reform of the Criminal Code to repeal the permanent reviewable prison - by chance, the one applicable to terrorist offences -; they criticized Organic Law 7/2014 for its impact on the calculation of the enforcement of sentences and now seek its repeal, precisely when it has obtained the endorsement of all national and international courts. And I ask myself: Are there no subjects of general interest to the Basques and the Spanish as a whole? Can they not think of anything to propose to this House in favour of someone who is not an ETA terrorist convicted of justice? Really? I do not expect an answer, but I do think it is good to remember where this initiative comes from. As has already been recalled, on 23 October, the European Court of Human Rights issued a judgment in which it upheld that Spain should not accumulate the sentences served by elderly prisoners in France in order to liquidate the sentences imposed in Spain. In other words, the European Court of Human Rights supported the decision of the Plenary of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court of 13 January 2015, which applied Law 7/2014, which in turn transposed European Union Framework Decision 2008/675/JHA into our law. On 23 October of the same year, I assured in this rostrum - I'm sorry for the help - that the Strasbourg judgment had not liked some and that, apparently, apart from the rattlesnake to the plaintiffs, the gentlemen of the PNV were the least pleased. Mr Esteban, in fact, had signed this bill from the day before; perhaps his prediction was to discuss it with the impetus of a Strasbourg sentence condemning against Spain that did not occur. Mr Esteban showed his disconformity and announced this bill to better adapt the framework decision to Spanish legislation and, consequently, called for an intelligently applied prison policy. It seems, intelligent, in the words of the PNV, that it must be translated in accordance with what is convenient for the PNV and, more correctly, in favour of terrorists. Well, I must remind you that neither nationalism is compulsory nor compulsory to commulgate with its mill wheels - let us talk about the Constitution and the statute, budgetary debates, motions of censure or Organic Law 7/2014- and, of course, that the most correct decisions are not the ones to shorten the condemnations of terrorists; in democracy, the most correct decisions are those that apply the law and do justice - in this case, Organic Law 7/2014, which the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights have considered in accordance with Framework Decision 2008/675- and not those that seek evenly recaptures or promote reforms to favour terrorists to the detriment of legality and justice. I think you were wrong about the interest of the Basques - of the Basques and of all the Spaniards - in the motion of censure a few months ago - even when the government is not in sight, of which there is no doubt - you were wrong in prioritizing the relationship with Sortu and Bildu in the Basque Country, and you have run out of budgets; and you are wrong in devoting most of your legislative efforts in Congress to terrorists convicted of justice. We will therefore reject your proposal for a law. Organic Law 7/2014 suits us well as it is. Its text was finally approved by a very large majority in this House on October 30, 2014. At that session, in fact, two amendments introduced by the People's Party in the Senate were ratified that avoided the expansive application of the accumulation of years in prison. This was followed by the claim of Sortu and the legal teams of the ages to use Framework Decision 2008/675 to advance the release of up to 150 terrorists who served or served sentences in France. The Organic Law expressly regulates the matter in its articles 1, 14 and 15 and in its additional provision and, in a final manner, in article 14.2 it refers to cases in which convictions abroad shall not have effect. That is why the PNV intends to substantially amend Article 14.2 and delete the additional provision, hence separate legal paraphernalia. But the truth, you say what you say, is that the organic law enshrines the general principle of equivalence of judgments handed down in the European Union; it lists, in 14.2, the cases in which such convictions cannot be taken into consideration, and it does so not arbitrarily, capriciously or against the framework decision, as the PNV states, but precisely in application of the forecasts and powers contained in Article 3, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, of the framework decision itself - that is what the PNV obviously prefers to ignore - and it establishes, in all its arguments, a tax limit from which the effects of convictions abroad, which is 15 August 2010, are recognized. The organic law therefore limits the effect to the cases already envisaged: Euroorder and enforcement of the sentence in the country of origin. Article 14.2 makes it clear that final sentences handed down in other European States will have no effect nor will they result in their revocation or revision, and provides for exceptions to the recognition of effects which the Framework Decision itself optionally incorporated. In conclusion, following the ruling of the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights, it seems clear that the organic law is in accordance with Framework Decision 2008/675 and does not violate neither Article 5 nor Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but only secures the claims of convicted terrorists. You will know, Mr Legarda and those who support your initiative - let us hope that the Socialist Party will finish making decisions in the course of the afternoon - what you owe, to whom you owe it or in which troubled rivers you want to fish. The truth is that all the Spaniards represented in this House do not owe anything to the terrorists, we are not here to do favors to those who have fought democracy with weapons, sowing pain and terror on our streets, and that is why we will vote against this shameful proposal, Mr Legarda, of which you, as Democrats, should be ashamed and supported. Thank you very much. [[applause.-Mr. Legarda Uriarte asks for the word]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u37	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u38	I wanted to ask for an explanation in relation to Mr Girauta's statements.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u39	You've got to sew the allusion on me.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u40	In particular, he said that my speech had been a shame and that he had been amazed by the fact that he had concealed very important facts in a legal debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta, you have one minute to answer Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u42	I don't want to make this a personal matter. With all due respect to Mr Legarda, he has quoted the Strasbourg judgment in the past, it is true, and I continue to maintain that this was not exposed with the importance or on equal terms than the rest of the arguments. It's okay, there's no problem. If you've bothered him, I apologize.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u44	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on budgetary measures complementary to the extension of the budgets of the People's Party. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to defend the non-legislative proposal on budgetary measures complementary to the extension of the budgets of the People's Party, an initiative that is absolutely necessary in the face of the obvious paralysis of a government born of an unworthy motion of censure and that has demonstrated in these few six months that there is no project for Spain beyond the removal of the People's Party from the government that the Spaniards gave it at the polls; a government of Mr Sánchez who lacks the political initiative and the support necessary to carry out his work; a government that every passing day believes what we have been saying for weeks: the legislature is exhausted and the call for elections is necessary as soon as possible, as seven out of every ten Spaniards are already demanding. The so-called beautiful government of Sánchez crumbles: a president who obtained the doctorate irregularly and refuses to give explanations, two ministers resigned, three more with fiscal scandals that would make anyone in Europe resign with a minimum of dignity and a minister who has turned out to be the female protagonist of the so-called state cloacas; a government that only survives on the basis of fireworks, as we can see every Friday at the press conference after the Council of Ministers, when we are announced a rosary of empty plans of content and without budget that swallows them, splashed, that is, with pompous announcements of constitutional reforms for which they do not have enough support. Ladies and gentlemen, the only sensible thing the Sánchez government has done is to implement the 2018 General State Budgets of the People's Party, despite the fierce criticisms they have poured into those accounts. They are not credible, they attack the welfare state and they do not defend either women, workers, the unemployed or young people, Mr Sánchez said in April. If Pedro Sánchez governs with the budgets of the PP, he will have us in front, as the PP has in front of us, said the spokesman of Podemos in May. Despite this, despite criticisms by the left and the far left, we have been able to observe how ministers, pseudo-ministers and Members of Parliament assume without any red tape to carry out the measures adopted by the People's Party and to which they themselves have repeatedly voted against them. I am thinking of the increase in pensions for this year 2018, the increase in the salary of officials also for this year 2018, the first phase of the salary equalization of the State Security Forces and Corpses and, lately, the early retirement of local police, to quote only the most relevant ones. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if executing the General Budgets of the People's Party State was the only sensible step taken by the Sánchez Government, with this initiative that we are debating today we are looking for a second common sense attack before it calls for elections as the vast majority of Spaniards ask. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fall into the new trap that we are now being told, which is nothing other than the presentation of the General Budgets of the State for 2019; a trap or a farce, if you prefer, because this last occurrence cannot be described in any other way: to present the General Budgets of the State with the path of deficit of the People's Party, applying the economic policy of Podemos and which must obtain the approval of the European Union. Similar nonsense can only occur to one Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] A serious Parliament like this cannot fall into that mockery, which only seeks to distract attention to keep Mr Sánchez in Moncloa a few more weeks. These are hypothetical accounts, those of the PSOE and Podemos, which have already been rejected by Brussels, the AIReF, the Bank of Spain, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD and by how many national and foreign analysts have examined them, which have labeled them unreal, based on overestimated revenues and hidden million dollars. Not even the same and unanimous rattle him on his accounts have brought Mr. Sanchez down from the clouds. They are hypothetical accounts, those of the PSOE and Podemos, based on the old recipes of the left: rise of all taxes and, in case these were few, creation of new ones, rise of social contributions, increases of the energy price, greater rigidity in labor relations, more deficit, more debt, etc. These are measures, all of them, which go the opposite way and which will no doubt burden economic growth and job creation. Those who have to create jobs, employers, qualify all these measures as suicide employment. Ladies and gentlemen, after the many promises we have heard, the truth is that we will start 2019 with extended budgets, even though Mr Sánchez himself - or Pedro, you will know who he was at the time - saw it unacceptable a few months ago, when he told Mr Rajoy that if he could not have a parliamentary majority to approve the General Budgets of the State he would have to call the Spaniards to the polls. We demand that Sanchez simply apply his own medicine. In the meantime, it is necessary to adopt some concrete measures to develop the full content of the General Budgets of the State of the People's Party which were supported by the absolute majority of Congress and Senate a few months ago, so we again call for the support of the parliamentary forces to urge the Government to approve, inter alia, the following measures: a fixed salary increase of 2.25% plus a variable of 0.25%, as well as a public employment offer that complies with the agreements signed between the Government of the People's Party and the public service unions; the allocation of EUR 450 million provided for in the second phase of the Salary Equalization Agreement signed between the Government of the People's Party, the police unions and the Civil Guard associations; the allocation of the shares agreed in the State Pact against Gender Violence signed by all political forces, except Podemos; the raising of widow's pensions by 7.5 %, the minimums by 3 % and the rest by 1.6 %, just as the People's Party had agreed with the majority of this House on the basis of the forecasting of the Social Services of the IPC of this year, except We can; the provision of a guarantee of adequate education, which, indeed, the income is provided for the same as well as well as well as well as a function of finance. Ladies and gentlemen, all these measures we are demanding for 2019 are possible without the need to raise a single tax or create new tax figures, as economic growth itself allows them to be financed as we have shown in 2018, when we also lower taxes on low and middle incomes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you govern for a single Spanish: Pedro Sánchez; we want to do so for the remaining 47 million, for those who cannot enjoy the Falcon, those who you do not even allow to travel or go to work on your diesel car, go to the bulls or go hunting when your obligations permit. In the words of the constitutionalist Roberto Blanco Valdés, Mr Sánchez's joy is the misfortune for Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u46	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. The unusual, peculiar and abnormal political situation resulting from the investiture of Pedro Sánchez following the motion of censure raised last May, with the bill of the General Budgets of the State for 2018 already in its process by the Senate, has brought as a consequence that the new Government manifests itself absolutely undecided to submit to the Courts a bill with new public accounts for 2019, which will inevitably lead to the extension of those that are in force, which in its process were rejected by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and much of its support in the motion of censure. As I have already mentioned in various speeches, the President of the Government today committed himself in this very forum to the implementation of the Budget Act. Let me read your own words taken from the Journal of Sessions of 31 May. Pedro Sánchez said: 'With regard to the investments in Asturias, I guarantee you that they will be implemented and that we will try, within the limits we have, to respond to your concerns'. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to note that, at the end of the 2018 financial year, the degree of implementation of the items which Forum incorporated in the budgets by means of different amendments is pyric and, in the specific case of high rail speed, even blatantly contradicts the reason, justification, explanation and heading of the Forum amendments to ensure the high-speed conditioning with European track width of the sections LeónLa Robla and La RoblaPola de Lena, variant of Pajares. Unexecuted are also essential items for Asturias relating to the reduction of environmental emissions, the south-west motorway, the motorway of the sea, reindustrialisation, protection of the pre-Romanian and Romanesque, mining funds and aid to the electrointensive industries for indirect costs of CO2. This initiative of the People's Group also puts into value some of the most significant budgetary support for Spain's progress which, like the Forum's amendments, the Government has despised and failed to comply with. Therefore, Mr President, we will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more week from this rostrum I remind you that to the shame of all of us we are living in a state where there are political exiles, political prisoners, some of whom have been on hunger strike for eighteen days to denounce the blockade of the Constitutional Court on their access to European justice. [[Applauds]] Having said that, as stated in the explanatory statement of this GNP, the situation is paradoxical. We live in the State of paradoxes, in a rather peculiar situation, because it is true that this must be of the few cases in which a Government governs with the budgets approved by another Government that could not even begin to develop them. That is true, but I also believe that you should accept the reality that the government is now part of the Socialist Party. I understand that the People's Party and Citizens don't like this situation, but that's the one. Mr Olano, from our perspective, it is up to the Government to set the parameters of the budget extension. You accuse them of governing with your budget, but if you can't decide how little remains to be done, which is the extension, then you will govern with budgets of the People's Party extended by you, which I think you can no longer endure any of the paradoxes. We, as you can understand, are in favour of some of the measures they are proposing and absolutely against others, and as we are against this, we are going to vote unfavorably on this GNP. One of the reasons we are against this is that you persist in maintaining a deficit target of 1.3% for the Spanish State. We understand that a deficit target of 1.8% in the current circumstances is much better than a target of 1.3%, and would create an additional margin for the autonomous communities that are going through a very complicated situation. That was not possible because the legislative amendments that allowed it were not made, legislative amendments that are in place, but which I fear will not be possible either because you from the opposition are going to try to block the government's little budgetary margin. In any case, we will vote against this initiative. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before going into detail, allow me to hand over an orange bracelet to the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, Mr De Olano, because I think he deserves it. In this rostrum he has defended a great many of the demands that we defend in the budgets when we were negotiating. Of course, you couldn't have done better and I thank you. I'll give you the bracelet right now. [[Applauds]] By the way, Citizens did with you and other groups an arduous, difficult but correct task, lowering taxes to the middle class and working class, matching with Brussels the goal of the deficit, increasing social spending and eliminating once and for all cuts; that is, with much effort, although the People's Party at that time - remember - was dragging its feet. Here we also had Mr Montoro and I remind him of the carrots to which he referred. When we proposed to return the efforts to the Spaniards, we told him that we wanted to lower taxes and told us that nothing at all, that the carrots were for before the elections, but in the end we got it. There were numerous achievements that Citizens achieved in this 2018 budget. By the way, the PSOE voted against, but you have an obligation to execute it. Among other things - I am not going to abound in the issues that the spokesman of the Group of the European People's Party has mentioned about this GNP - I wanted to focus on the fact that, in addition to lowering taxes, I was able to get this aid of EUR 1000 for day-care centres, the five-week extension of paternity permits, the fair wage equalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies - those 500 million which, by the way, were a red line, do they remember? and we demanded it - and the drop in the cultural VAT that the People's Party had raised. Without repeating all these achievements, the amendment we have tabled to this People's Party's GNP reflects some of the fundamental issues that are not included here. That is to say, that prison workers must be given a salary increase - I remind the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE that this was laid down in their amendments to the general budgets; that we must have a guarantee to provide the funds of the Cervera Network, a technology transfer network; that we must put in place once and for all the wage supplement for young people, that is, more than 500 million aid which, moreover, does not cost us a euro and, lastly and fundamentally, that we must guarantee the payment of aid to those affected by thalidomide who have been waiting for it for more than sixty years. [[Applauds]] I don't know what they're waiting for: to die? Well, we hope that all these citizen-beneficial items will be implemented because it is the duty of the Government to enforce the law, even though you voted against it. By the way, speaking of law enforcement, Mr Lasarte - I understand that you will come down to defend your position in the rostrum - tell the Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero, who has an obligation to appear in this House. As Article 110 of the Spanish Constitution and Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure remind us, the President of this House, Mrs Pastor, and I repeat to you: tell Mrs Montero that she has an obligation to appear so that this spokesman asks her whether there is a budget - yes or no? -, whether we are going to fry at taxes - yes or no? - and many other issues of general interest to the citizens. I would not like to end without referring to a policy of which Citizens are fully proud: the intense work that my colleagues have done in the proposal of the State Pact against Gender Violence, ratified by all groups in this House with the exception of Uniti Podemos; a pact that meant increasing the budget from 30 to 238 million euros with an increase nothing less than 700 %. However, the available budget implementation data are extremely low. Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to demand immediate results. How are these 238 million euros being used, Mr Lasarte? Where are the follow-up reports on this pact? Where are the rushes to get to work on the Follow-up Committee? I also remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that you are presiding over the Commission. Stop warming this chair and live up to this state pact. Go up to this rostrum and, Mr Lasarte, disaggregate each and every one of these 238 million euros that Citizens signed in the Pact against Gender Violence. I'm done, Mr. President. The lives of people suffering from macho violence cannot be contingent on the inability of a Government to implement budget lines. I know that you are completely in agreement with me and from here, from this rostrum, I demand that you comply with each and every one of the budget headings, each and every one. It's your responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u53	Thank you, President. Sweep on, good afternoon. The People's Parliamentary Group is presenting us with a non-legislative proposal on budgetary measures complementary to the extension of General State Budgets. It is true that the situation is somewhat paradoxical - I think it has already been said here today - because the ruling party does so with a budget drawn up by another party. Without commenting on the explanatory statement, on the one hand, the People's Group seems to be giving effect to the final budgetary extension, when the Government has allegedly said that it is going to present the draft General Budgets of the State, and the rest of the groups have been demanding this. Nor should it be forgotten that the previous Government, in January of last year, did not have sufficient support, since the rest of the groups requested its submission and approved the budgets there by summer, so that the new Government would be at the same time in the same circumstances. It is true that it is a budget plan that starts with a weakness, and it is the relative one that is still pending the approval of the expenditure ceiling for 2019, whose figure, higher than this year, contains a new path of budgetary stability with the new public deficit targets for 2019 and 2021 and correcting again, as it has been so far, 2018. In spite of that, what is clear is that from 1 January the Socialist Government will have to govern with the extension of the General Budgets of the State of the former Executive, until there is a new budget, and it is true that it counted on the favorable votes of this group. Some of these proposals are therefore already included in that extension, some of which have been agreed or included in that budget and which the Government has undertaken to comply with, such as the increase in the regulatory basis for widow's pensions and the increase in the CPI, which has already stated publicly that the increase will be the November CPI set at 1.7%. In addition, it has undertaken to implement all investments relating to Euskadi. On the other hand, they are talking about giving the parties agreed in the State Pact against Gender Violence. The truth is that this proposal has drawn some attention to me because I believe that if any person was active in achieving a greater endowment in this regard, putting forward an amendment to that effect to the previous draft budgets, it was precisely Mrs Álvarez of the Socialist Group. To question whether this pact will not be complied with, either in the extension or in a new project, seems to me to be out of place. All the measures proposed are also intended to provide an additional guarantee, i.e. to be implemented but without tax increases. In this regard, with regard to tax measures, this group reiterates the prudence both in one sense and in another, rising or lowering taxes, because the objective of tax reform is to provide the public sector with the necessary economic resources to provide the services that society requires, adjust and modify and even regulate tax figures in order to make a more sustainable, more equal society. In addition, we must remind you at this point of a contradiction, since you say on the one hand that there will be no need for any increase in taxes because the growth of economic activity itself will be sufficient to guarantee your measures, which you propose in this proposal, and yet on the other hand you are affirming the slowdown of the economy and therefore doubt that growth. With regard to meeting the deficit targets of 1.3%, you know that we are voting in favour of the new path proposed by the Government. For us a target of 1.8% is better because it creates an additional margin. It is also somewhat difficult to understand that you are proposing to meet that deficit target of 1.3% when even for 2018 it is not going to meet what was planned. In their non-legislative proposal, they urge the Government to adopt various measures of a different nature, some of which are included in the budget and some of which are not, that the only thing they intend to do is to carry out a marketing policy to show that they are their budgets - their own, those of the People's Group - and to try to get the Government to fix its position before them, an option that may be somewhat bulwark and go against them if the Government brings to Congress any of them, through a royal decree, which may force it to support them individually, for example by raising the salaries of public employees, pensions or offers of public employment. Of course, this group is not going to enter into this game of a policy that the only thing it seeks is to get a short-term income for its own benefit and that the only thing it can generate is confusion with society. We will therefore not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u55	Thank you, President. The People's Group is bringing us today a non-legislative proposal which seeks to give the Government guidance on budgetary policy to carry out the implementation of the extended budgets. The truth is, it's an initiative that surprises us and that we think it's funny. When I read it I remembered Billy Wilder's film, Sunset Boulevard or The Twilight of the Gods, in which Gloria Swanson plays an actress who comes from silent cinema and who, in her adaptation to sound cinema, ends up getting lost; she feels that her time did not pass and lives completely away from reality. The situation is quite similar to what you are experiencing right now, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. I have to tell you that since last July you are no longer in the government and that budgetary policy in this country is not in the hands of you, another government with other support. They are no longer in Moncloa, and Moncloa is not theirs; it is something they should learn from the future and internalize it. That right now is being governed by your budgets is an accident that needs to be resolved soon; we hope that it will not go beyond January, and not because those budgets were yours alone - it is not simply because they are from the People's Party, which is also - but because with your budgetary policy, which is a reflection of the economic policy that you are putting in place, you have shown that these policies are totally unfair and ineffective. These are budgets based on an obsolete conception of economic policy. You are still anchored in restrictive fiscal policies; in which we must not increase income more than those who come, in an inertial way, through economic growth, something that leads us to move further away each year from the European average in terms of income. Its economic policy says that recovery is going to come in citizens' pockets on its own, simply because of the dripping of the recovery of business profits, which has already been shown to be totally false. And it will be more so at a time of deceleration in the countries of our environment. They are budgets, theirs, which also do not serve to solve the structural weaknesses that drag our economy, because they are budgets that sink the investment, maintaining an inertial productive model specialized in low value-added sectors and entrusting the recovery to the internal devaluation done at the expense of the rights of the workers of this country. Their budgets were budgets that made up a low-cost economic fabric of precarious and poor workers. We see how R & D & I items in the budgets accumulated a cut of 27% since 2009 and in infrastructure of 58%. That's just what's budgeted; then what's executed is much less, as in the case of R & D where the game at the end ends up running by 30%. Fortunately, we now have the opportunity to put these budgets behind us, reverse the cuts in the last parliamentary term and put in place the budgetary agreement that our parliamentary group entered into with the Government. These budgets will allow families to finally notice the recovery, if they are met and brought in by the Government as soon as possible. They will allow the SMI to increase; they will allow us to start repealing the labour reforms that you have put in place; to dignify the situation of dependent people; to raise investment in science and in i+D+i to bring it closer to the European media; to end the fiscal privileges of those who have the most and do not pay, and - especially important today, I wanted to highlight it, after the macho murder of Laura Luelmo - to adequately finance the fight against macho violence and to legally shield the 'yes only' so that not one less, at last, will move from words to facts, words to budgets and that the items on macho violence will actually be fulfilled. [[Applauds]] This week, with the spending ceiling and in January, if the Government finally fulfils its commitments, we will have the opportunity, as I said, to change the budgetary policy of this country, we will have the opportunity to choose between democratic deepening and modernization of the welfare state or perpetuation of a right-wing economic policy that also implies the risk of a possible democratic involution in the face of the rise of retrograde forces. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra and the PDECAT, I would like to tell you quickly that you are responsible with these budgets, that you are negotiating but, please, that you are trying to unravel the situation. Gentlemen of the PP, I will remind you once again that you are no longer in the government, that you should stop bringing in initiatives that are absolutely useless for nothing but to waste our time, because we have no time to waste, we have much to do and a country to recover. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, in conclusion, we demand that you comply with what has been agreed, that you comply with the commitments in all areas. I take this opportunity to remind you that you must seek and find an immediate solution to maintain Alcoa's activity. I want to remind you that tomorrow there is a demonstration called by the workers at 12 noon in Vegadeo that we invite everyone to participate, because Alcoa does not close. Gentlemen of the Government, you are fulfilling your commitments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u56	Thank you very much, Mr González. Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting an initiative that I would call extemporaneous, because it calls on the House to support a series of budgetary measures for the next financial year, and it is logical that this should be raised in the debate on the draft budgets that the Government will present in the coming weeks. Common sense, responsibility and coherence between what is preached and what is done will be seen in this process, in which the People's Group will have the opportunity to vote in favour of the accounts that include all or most of the proposals that the PP is proposing today in this non-legislative proposal. Mr De Olano, I hope you will vote in favour; or you will have to explain to those collectives that one thing is to make political marketing and short regatta games, and another to govern and make commitments. What really matters to you is to wear down the socialist government and not to cater to the people and their needs, not to the women, not to the unemployed, not to the young, not to the retired, not to the National Police, not to the Civil Guard, not to the Spanish as a whole. You read your initiative and it doesn't come out of your astonishment. There is a logical contradiction between defending that the 2018 budgets are the most social in history - according to his initiative and his opinion - and being against their continuity, through a budgetary extension, even under the management of a government that is not his own. Their problem is that they still do not take on the loss of the Government and present an initiative that looks like a small, bad-lost child. It must be remembered once again, Mr De Olano, that the People's Party is out of government for its corruption, and for the democratic decency of a parliamentary majority that voted in favour of a change of government. The normal thing when there is a new government in mid-year is that it manages the existing public accounts at that time, that is, otherwise. Of course they were budgets, theirs, ideological, budgets whose fatherhood we have seen disputed between the right, PP and Citizens. They were ideological and unfair and anti-social, of course, because they reflected an inequality-generating Government, because public spending grew less than nominal GDP and continued to lose relative weight on health, education or dependence. Because you do not believe in the value of the public as an element of service to society and a tool for a better redistribution of income and wealth. Of course, they weren't credible, because their public accounts predicted a deficit they knew they weren't going to meet. You should know very well, Mr De Olano, the difference between approved and implemented budgets, because if something was shown by the former Minister of Finance, it was his ability not to implement budget lines, such as those for R & D+i or infrastructure or those for active employment and training policies for employment. But, don't worry, Mr De Olano, this socialist government is making good management of the budget, because it is committed to fiscal consolidation and is going to meet the commitments with Brussels. I ask you and your group to support the new stability path, which foresees a deficit of 1.8%, 6 billion more spending capacity for health, education, dependency or pensions. Are you going to oppose having more public resources to meet people's needs? Is it wrong for Spain to have a deficit target lower than France or Italy? I remind you that you have left Spain's public accounts deficit above 3%, the largest in the eurozone. Do you find it wrong to reduce public debt by almost 2 points when you left it close to 100 percent? The management of the 2018 budget is being done with those changes in the public accounts necessary to implement a social agenda, which you did not do in your years of the government of the cuts; modifications to revalue the pensions of the CPI or end up at work level with exploitation and with the poor workers or to be able to generate a future of hope and work for young people with a real youth employment plan, not that scam of you with Citizens that rejected the European Union and that above you did not execute. I would like to comment on the statement made by the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ten. On a day like today we should be very respectful of the misfortune of gender-based violence, for the macho murder of Laura Luelmo in Huelva, but she has the shame of coming to this House and asking the socialist government for information, which she will already give. Although, I want to say one thing: The draft budgets that you presented in this House in 2018 had budgeted for the State Pact against Gender Violence 80 million euros. - That was his pact with the PP, that was his pact, 80 million euros, which they brought to this House - but it was this House that got a budget of 220 million euros, although its pact was 80 million euros. [[applause]] It is a shamelessness, Mr. Ten, a real shamelessness. [[Several ladies and gentlemen say words that are not perceived.- Mrs Cantera de Castro: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u58	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u59	Mr. Ten, what matters here is not who wears the medal, and you have done an intervention only to get medals; so, great. What matters here is the goal, which is to end the macho violence. I think it's businesslike. [[The rumors continue.-Lass Cantera de Castro: It has a lot of face]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u60	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u61	It's over, President. Do not worry, Mr De Olano, about the budget extension, be patient. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u62	Wait a minute, Mr. Lasarte. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to speak among yourselves; only the speaker, no one else, has the floor. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u63	Thank you, President. I told you to be patient, Mr De Olano, you presented the draft accounts in April; this government is going to do so in January, so don't be hasty, relax. It will be a draft budget of clearly social content, with an agenda to recover freedoms and rights and reverse cuts to the welfare state and work to modernize the Spanish economy. Mr De Olano - I conclude, President - should stop sectarianism and opportunism and encourage your group, the Group of the European People's Party, to put the interests of Spain, the Spanish, for once and not to block the process of the new path of stability and, if they can, to improve, if they can, with their amendments to the draft budgets for the year 2019 that will soon reach this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Lasarte. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr De Olano Vela whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u65	Yes, we are working on a transactional that we will provide to the services of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u66	In your case, I hope you will send it to us in time to be voted on. Thank you very much. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS IN THE CONGRESS, SOCIALIST, CONFEDERAL OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMONLY POSSIBLE IN MARIA, CITIZENS, DE KERRA REPUBLICANA, VASCO AND MIXTO, RELATING TO A STATE COVENANT FOR CHILDREN. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000872]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u67	We continue with the next item on the agenda. No law proposal of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialist, Confederal of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, of Esquerra Republicana, Vasco and Mixto, regarding a pact of State for children. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martínez Oblanca intervenes, first of all, and by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Welcome is a parliamentary initiative that, as the Vice-President of Congress has just pointed out, is signed by each and every parliamentary group. I am speaking on behalf of the Forum to join with great pleasure in this non-legislative proposal, on a State Pact for Children, which develops sufficient protection to ensure the exercise of the rights of all children, reflecting a real and measurable commitment through specific commitments for budgetary investment. The Spanish Constitution calls us in different titles, chapters and articles for the recognition and protection of children. This afternoon the parliamentary impetus to the work carried out throughout this year and for a very long time by Unicef and numerous organizations and platforms, to which we recognize his immense task, allows us to move towards the attention to the priorities of the children, who, on the other hand, have been tenaciously defined and alerted within the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Adolescents of this Congress of Deputies, created in the XII Legislature. In my party's electoral programme, we reflect a number of concerns that are coincidental in pointing out some of the problems of children that require priority attention, in the case of child abuse, that it is necessary to detect, prevent and combat, or of the many forms of violence that threaten our children and that are the product of society itself, including technological communication tools, that too often become the door through which content that is very aggressive to the age and level of maturity of our children penetrates, not to mention the abominable trafficking of paedophile and pederasta networks. Among other things, the fight against poverty and the improvement of health, education, food and family law, as well as the implementation of the legislative tool adopted by the Courts-General three years ago to provide Spain with a system for the protection of children and adolescents, whose deployment must be completed with this pact of State, which already has political unanimity and consensus as a basis for its evolution, and the involvement of civic organizations that are constantly on the alert in favour of the inalienable rights of our children. It was very necessary to move towards this pact of State; urgent because it is about combating inequalities, and peremptory because it will have as its main protagonist the childhood of our country, that is, our society tomorrow. With all the work that begins today, there is a need for support in which parliamentary participation, and not just that of the Government, will be essential. All the good words around this pact of State, all the documents and statistics that support its need, all the political commitments made for children, and especially for disadvantaged children, will be empty if there are no appropriations in the successive annual laws of the General Budgets of the State. We have the floor and the decisive vote in every process of the public accounts, Members and Senators, so that this state pact for children has the resources to put it into effect. Pending the first call for budgetary appropriations today, we can only join this great appeal. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u70	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the state pact for children. First of all, we have always followed agreements that are based on those aspects that are substantive in the development of any society, and that of children has been, is and probably will be in the future, so we have participated in the signing of this pact, this non-law proposal that refers to the state pact, and that is why we will obviously support it. But I am not going to stop having a certain critical aspect with the wording that has been given to it, precisely because the mere reference to the state pact has been a fact that has always caused us some fear of the Basque Nationalist Group, and that is precisely why this text that has been addressed to us, a text that we have subscribed to, I would like to make a few small clarifications, on the understanding that we absolutely share all its purposes, all its intentions and also the measures it points out. The State Pact that is intended to be reached calls for the involvement of all types of members of civil society, organizations, children and international organizations, and yet, except in a small paragraph at the end, it is not called for the involvement of the autonomous communities or local entities in the elaboration of this State Pact, which is quite striking, since these are the administrations that have always been competent in this matter or that have had greater involvement in the matter of children. I say, however, that we are going to be involved in this matter, and also in the purposes that you will remember, which basically lie in two or three issues to which reference is made. First, there is a call for greater budgetary investment in children, and it calls for the identification of budget allocations for this purpose, so that a certain figure of EUR 1200 per year is also reached, which is intended to be collected in the budgets of all administrations. Investing in children is not only fair, it is profitable, it benefits everyone and it is a fundamental element for the transformation of societies, and this idea also directly interferes with the idea that exists also at European, Community level, of what social protection should be. The European Commission, on 20 February 2013, in a recommendation called Investing in Children, Breaking the Cycle of Disadvantages, warned that in the vast majority of European Union countries the child population is at greater risk of poverty or social exclusion than the general population, and that children growing up in poverty or social exclusion are less likely to have good school performance, enjoy good health and realize their full potential at later stages of life. That is also the purpose to which we want, to which all the administrations of the Basque Country have already in fact joined, and which is what allows us to have our own policies, such as, for example, in the field of education, the second purpose of the non-law proposal which speaks of generalizing the scope of the protection of children's education. In Euskadi, children's education in public education is a reality, it is a cycle that is voluntary and has a duration of six courses divided into two cycles, the first from 0 to 3 years and the second from 3 to 6 years, and it is a stage prior to compulsory basic education and with a schooling that reaches almost 100 per cent of the population from 2 to 6 years, because we believe that it is a fundamental stage in ensuring the right to education of all people from their earliest age, and therefore the maintenance of their right to equal opportunities in access to all possibilities and to do so without discrimination. It also seeks greater resources for the purposes provided for in Law 26/2015, and the curious thing is that also in these matters of legal protection of children and adolescents, as I have said, are competent the local and autonomous administrations, with which the attention is drawn, and above all the warning of the monitoring and accountability that must be done, that we understand that it must be done to the competent administrations, which in our case will be the Basque one. Let me therefore remind you that in Basque, for example, the existence of a Basque pact for families and children has been promoted as a result of a commitment adopted by the Basque Government, which has concluded the IV Inter-institutional Plan of Support for Families of the Autonomous Community for the period 2018-2022, signed by the Basque Government, outlaws, Basque municipalities and civil organizations, which aims to invest in families, invest in children, and which involves the establishment of a Basque national pact for children. We will support this initiative, but we need to renew the idea, not only in the case of children, but also in others where the existence of a state pact is mentioned, and to realize that agreements and general purposes can be reached also with full respect for the ownership of competences, those practical realities and those policies implemented elsewhere, such as the case of Euskadi, where, with our failures and our mistakes, we have achieved results that are likely to be the ones that want to achieve the state pact in the future. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u72	Bona tarda, good afternoon, to the entities you are here with, especially those we have worked with in recent years. It is important that this non-legislative proposal be adopted. Why is it important? Because if we look back a few things we've approved in this Congress. That is why I should be very happy, but I have a feeling that there is a lot of talk about childhood, that there is even more talk about child poverty, but that we have done very little. I recently read documents from entities that are present here from 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 until now, and this idea of the pact has been a central idea for many years, the same pact that the same entities have made to work together. But the reality is not this. A few days ago, the Government was talking about 7331 million to modernize frigates and armoured vehicles, with the Treasury agreement. How easy! How simple! The idea of defence is part of a long historical tradition of the right and left in Spain, the idea of defence and the idea of the army, and it would be wrong if someone questioned it. When you question her, the one who's armed! Why is childhood not also a subject rooted on the right and left, beyond documents? The truth is that there are communicating glasses in the budgets. One can raise 1 or 2 of GDP, but there is no way to find, for example, 4 billion - not 7000 - to reduce the most severe poverty by 1.3 million children; we do not find them. It is true that dialogue, the pact, talking is very important, but we already know that political time is very paradoxical; sometimes the four years do not last four, they last less; sometimes the governments, when making budgets, forget many things. And you know perfectly well that you cannot rely exclusively on improving the labour market. It is true that more work is done, that there are more employees than one, two, three or four years ago, but contracts are very precarious. Contracts, which in other circumstances would serve us to get families out of poverty, do not lift them out of poverty in this situation. This is the great problem of this country. Those of us who are far away or far away could agree, but there is no way. In contrast, in the United Kingdom and Ireland it has been done. How it is possible that a Government like the Conservative Government that we had in Spain a few months ago has made an important effort, a real pact that has allowed many boys and girls to get out of poverty. Or Ireland, which sure have problems of many kinds, sure the finance minister does his accounts and is a necessary, terrible auditor of the accounts, but this money has been found. I know that the Socialist Party can tell me: if these independenceists approved the budget we would make a leap forward. We would take a step, a small step, but not a leap, we just have to see the proposals that can be made, feasible from what the previous Government has left us. We have to go further, we have to go further. The three points that are raised are appropriate, but I am afraid that at the time of putting black on white the money will not be too easy. It is true that there are autonomys that have done more, but let us be honest: nowhere in the Spanish State has poverty been eradicated. So we all have to do more, everyone. I'm responsible for the part you can play me in Catalonia. It can't be, poverty can't go on having a girl's face, it can't be, and in that, making a gutsy heart and even being contradictory to what I've said, we will push as hard as possible this pact to eradicate child poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. An initiative is being discussed to urge the Government to coordinate the development of a state pact for children, and if the object of political activity is to achieve the common good, I must congratulate all groups in this House, which we have agreed on in search of that common good, and also on a matter as important as children. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal that has again highlighted the importance of listening to society, and especially to those who live more closely with the subject in question, such as the children's organisations, who are also accompanying us today. It is another example of the need to have the participation of experts from each sector and professionals, and it is therefore fair today to express our sincere thanks to all the organizations that work for and with children. Thank you for your work and thank you for your hard work. [[Applauds]] Every day you teach us a lesson to learn, and today you specifically teach us that attention to children does not serve partisans, but that it has to be the same object and objective for all governments. And, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be conformist when we are talking about children, we must be convinced that this initiative is one more step, it is a step forward in the elaboration of this great pact of State for children, where political will is essential for it to become a reality. And I say this because the one who promises, promises and does not fulfill, is like the one who loves, ploughs and does not sow, and that is unfortunately what Mr Sánchez's government has been doing, which day after day in its interinity seems to be enough empty promises to hold on to power, that is, without meeting the real interests of the citizens, of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, your Government is now unable to comply with what they have been demanding from the opposition. Believe me, I find it very sad to have to remind you that you did not support budgets in 2017 where we managed to include a number of measures that benefited Spanish citizens, because they felt that they were insufficient. Some measures were 350 million for the fight against child poverty, so that the exit from the crisis was also for those who had gone through the worst and 235 million to be able to pay for the extension of paternity leave to four weeks. They did not support our plan against school failure so that no children would stay behind and we would no longer be the European country with higher repetition and drop-out rates. They did not support the 50 million scholarships so that textbooks would be free for families. Nor did they support the EUR 10 million amendment to combat child poverty by increasing the child benefit. But I go further, and in 2018 they also did not support measures such as the deductions to parents of 1000 euros per year for schooling their children from 0 to 3 years, which carried a budget of 297 million euros, nor the 58 million euros for the paternity permit in 2018 to pass to five weeks. Nor did they support the $30 million for our Producer Program, against school failure. We knew and knew that this was not enough, but we cannot deny that it meant a great improvement for the Spaniards. It wasn't enough for you, and I want to ask you what you have achieved in these seven months of government. A high commissioner who has been relegated to go through the media begging thousands of euros to be able to do something against child poverty? Is that what you got? What have you agreed with Podemos, your budget partners? Just 100 million euros? But if they didn't like these measures! If they didn't see enough of the 350 million euros we got for the fight against child poverty! You, ladies and gentlemen, have a problem, because you promise bridges where there are no rivers. That's his policy: to promise bridges where there are no rivers. And I ask you to be serious at once, to be realistic in this matter, and above all to go beyond unfulfilled promises and have the political will to end child poverty, which is a structural problem that we have in our country, so that the boys and girls of Spain can have the opportunities to achieve their dreams. I remind you of what Oscar Wilde wrote: The best way to do good to children is to make them happy. Don't forget them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Millan. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u76	Hello, very late. Very good afternoon. Out of respect for the initiative we are presenting today and out of respect for the organisations that accompany us, I am not going to put myself at all in an electoral mode, as I see some of the people who have preceded me have done, and I am going to talk only about the initiative that concerns us, because I think it is important enough to do so. As I was saying, it seems to me to be a very important initiative, and if I may, I will begin my intervention by explaining a story that, for the first time since I am on this stage - and I hope you will forgive me - will speak for a second of me alone. Next Thursday is three years after the elections on 20 December 2015, and therefore I will be three years as a Member of this House. But it is also my children's birthday, because it turns out that on the day of the elections, on December 20, 2015, as I followed the electoral count, I gave birth to a child and a girl, my twin sons Elisa and Milo, who arrived weeks earlier than expected. I had a lot of doubts as to whether I was going ahead as a Member. The women in this House will share with me that this is not an easy place for us, and even less if we are mothers. As you can deduce by my presence here I decided to move on. Every day I have had doubts as to whether I had done the right thing, but today, while defending this initiative, this pact of State for children, I am convinced that yes, that I did what I had to do, because I actually did it for them, for Milo and Elisa, but also for all childhood. My children have come forward, I must say that sometimes with a mother too absent, but they are now two children of almost three happy years, and they have come forward thanks to a public health that knew how to cure and care for two premature babies, thanks to teaching professionals who - much more important than knowledge - have given them their affection and support, and to a care network that has not only covered their basic needs, but has given them the emotional well-being that every child deserves, and that is precisely what this initiative is about, of happy children, and that is where I think we have managed to meet all the groups in this House, in the search for the happiness of our childhood. That is why, as I have already said, I am not going to put myself in any pre-electoral mode, and in my speech today there will be no reproach for other groups, but it will be a speech of thanks, because I sincerely believe that the occasion deserves it. First of all, I would like to thank the Children's Platform - it would be missing more - and all its members who are accompanying us here today in the rostrum. I see some and I recognize them, Adolfo, Anabel, Pablo, Mayte - Ricardo has just been a father, congratulations from here, and can't accompany us - as well as many other people who have made the struggle for children's rights their life. To all those who, with their perseverance, have managed to get the parliamentary groups to agree on this pact for children, which has not been easy at all, and let us register this GNP together. This initiative is yours and I want to thank you for being there every day. Thank you for watching over our childhood, society has a huge debt to you and to you. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank my group, the confederal group, and in particular our deputy spokesman, Jone Belarus. It was on his own initiative that the Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents was born, and that children's policies have found a leading place in this House. Finally, I would like to thank each and every one of the groups in this House, in particular the spokespersons of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and Adolescents, because we have been able to agree on something as fundamental as the rights of children. We are separated by many things, but when we sit down and negotiate the initiatives of this pact of State, we all know how to live up to it and remember why we are here, remember that we are here to make this world a better place. This initiative is precisely a firm and courageous first step towards the equality and well-being of our children. Firstly, this pact puts on the table a gradual increase in investment in children to the European average, an increase that ensures that no child lives in poverty in our country, as is the case now. In the field of education, this pact will also entail a gradual increase in the provision of public places for children's education in the first cycle. The aim is for Spain to reach the European average of public coverage at this stage in 2022, and to increase schooling among the most vulnerable families. Finally, this State Pact envisages allocating resources to strengthen the protection of children and adolescents in our country in order to ensure the correct implementation of the changes introduced by Law 26/2015 of 28 July 2015 amending the system for the protection of children and adolescents. It is possible that many of you think that my speech is somewhat exaggerated and excessive, that at the end of the day this is a GNP and that like so many other times it can become wet paper, but the truth is that I trust it is not so, because we cannot afford it, and at this point I am going to look very particularly at the government group. It is essential that the signatures printed on this paper are not a mere pose, that no one - no Government - shakes his hand when it comes to implementing what we have agreed here, that there is no electoral calculation that is worth it. We owe it to our childhood. Let us teach our children that politics can also be coherent, that politics can also be courageous. I want to finish my speech with a date from Victor Hugo. Hugo portrayed child poverty in his novels with all its cruelty, and stated: Christopher Columbus only discovered America, but I discovered the child. Let us leave for a moment the great debates of geopolitics, the uplifting speeches where everyone thinks they are right. Let us do something as simple and important as discovering the child and the child, guaranteeing them the happiness that is achieved only in equality. Let us adopt this GNP unanimously, but above all let us make all its demands a reality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u78	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the state pact for children does not begin here today with this initiative. For many years, this pact has been a goal of civil society organizations that fight for children and have been working decisively. On behalf of the Socialist Group, we would like to express our appreciation for the work that has been done to promote education, health and the protection of the most vulnerable children. We would like to congratulate you not only on the effort you have made in bringing this initiative to us today and in agreeing with all of us, but above all on the push and determination you are going to show from now on to make this state pact a reality. Thank you so much for your heart, really. [[Applauds]] Despite the advances of recent decades, Spain has not established a universal system of social protection effective enough to be able to adequately protect our children. This has become more evident after the years of crisis, which have highlighted the delicate economic situation of families with children. Child poverty is undoubtedly the most disturbing of all inequalities. Being born in a rich family, with cultural capital, with books, or doing so in a family that has no resources is the result of chance and, if we do not invest in time, it will mark the opportunities of these children. It may seem obvious, but it is not: there are no poor children in wealthy families. When parents face economic and labour difficulties, the current system leaves child rearing without support to ensure their child's minimum well-being. Child poverty has many facets: that of infra-life, that of poor food, that of school failure. It is in the hands of all, but above all of us, of those who manage the public, to change this situation. We have to move from words to facts and we have to do it now. Why a pact? Because future governments need to ensure minimum commitments in terms of investment, protection and education to break the cycle of disadvantages, so that poor children are not poor adults: we need to invest in children. Since the motion of censure more than six months ago, the Socialist Government has placed the fight against child poverty at the centre of the political agenda. For this country, it is a milestone to have created the High Commissioner for Combating Child Poverty. The Government had launched in record time the VECA programme to combat child poverty during the holiday period, in which children were more vulnerable; it had made available to the autonomous communities more than €40 million to care for unaccompanied foreign minors and by the end of the year the Government would bring the law to this House to end child violence. On Thursday, the President of the Government pledged to civil society organizations to strengthen the agreed initial allocation for general child benefit budgets in families suffering from severe poverty, with an increase of more than twice the current benefit. The Government has also committed itself to promoting food grants with 25 million euros and to promoting education from 0 to 3 years with 330 million euros. We must make policies in favour of children, not make a partisan use of children's policies. Now, in worrisome times when we hear hate speech, it must be said without cover that it is a question of social justice. The Socialist Group is not satisfied with this non-legislative proposal. We want more because we know that the boys and girls in this country need more. It cannot be that, as we have heard here today, with one hand we offer dialogue and pact, and with the other hand we say not to approve budgets that would make it possible, the tool to make this pact effective. It will be of no use to the well-being of the children that today the representatives of the various political groups will support this initiative in favour of children if this does not translate into facts, into investments, into general State budgets. Citizenship wouldn't understand. How good it is, ladies and gentlemen of the right-wings of all tastes, of the PP and of Citizens, that they be filled with good words about boys and girls but then make no effort to make that goodwill a reality. The most complicated thing is already done: agree all of us. This has been possible thanks to the pressure and insistence of NGOs. In addition, we have the will of the Government to invest in children. Only the last and final step is needed, to approve the budgets so that everything proposed here today is a reality. We agree on many things, I think we agree. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is it not right for you to increase investment in children to reach European levels? Would you not like greater transparency in the budgets? Do they not agree that the items with the highest incidence of child poverty, such as the increase in child benefit, should be improved? Do you find it wrong that there is a real commitment to education? Are they against strengthening the child protection system? If the answer is no, keep it as it has been. If the answer is yes, you know, unblock the situation and facilitate the process of negotiating budgets so that we can do what everyone expects of us. The boys and girls in this country don't vote, but we owe them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Ferrer. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Heredia Martín.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Use my first words this afternoon to greet and welcome - as you deserve - this House to the Children's Platform and, above all, to praise the fundamental role that you have played for this initiative to be jointly approved this afternoon; a fundamental role because you have achieved something very important, something that is very difficult to achieve, which is to get the best out of ourselves, to get the best out of all the parliamentary groups in this House and, above all, to put on the table the best wills at the service of those who need us most, the children of our country. I liked the predisposition of most political groups in this matter. It has cost some a little bit more, it is difficult for them to put aside the political stamp, but I would like to thank most of the parliamentary groups for the high level of understanding, which is so necessary and so precious in these current times and which, in short, is what you, the organizations and social entities of our country, have asked of us: political unity. Thank you very much, on behalf of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] From my parliamentary group we have very clearly that investing in children is not an expense, investing in children is investing in the future. Therefore, the first thing this commitment to childhood calls us is responsibility. We were told this afternoon that they do not want to put themselves in electoral mode, as Mrs García Puig said, or that the difficult thing is already done, as Mrs Ferrer said. But now the important thing remains, Mrs Ferrer; the really important thing is to put the money on the table, and for that we have seen quite little goodwill and quite little commitment in this initiative. The People's Party, whether we are in government or we are in opposition, we are always going to act the same, but that does not happen to you. I have to tell you - and also the party that supports you in the government, your partners, those of the United We can - that one thing is when you are in the opposition and another when you are ruling with you, because yes, you are closing a budget with you, so you are your government partners and you are supporting it in the government. When you were in opposition, you said that you were going to allocate EUR 25 billion only to the child allowance. Well, they sign this initiative with just 180 million. The voice has already been lowered; the responsibility, the weight of the government. That's the Socialist Party and that's United We can. [[Applauds]] As in the opposition it is very comfortable, come, to ask for money, without looking at any. But now, they're in the government, they're already here promising something else very different. And I can tell you that what they promised us, or what they are asking us now that we approve, is only 7.2% of what they promised from the opposition. Therefore, Mrs Ferrer, the difficult thing is not to sign this; the difficult thing is to comply with social entities, as they did when they were in the opposition. That's my first conclusion. You are neither reliable nor serious people. I'm so sorry, but that's the way to say it. Criticise what they want from the People's Party, but what we say, both in the government and in the opposition, we do. I have to tell you something for now, too. Here we are talking about a pact for childhood and we are beginning, this is just a compromise. To make a real pact for childhood, as many covenants have been made in this house, you have to work a little bit more, you don't have to be in such a hurry. Here - the entities know it and they understand it - we have to get to work and jump because we have to make a real diagnosis of the situation we have in our country. We can't just come up with three sheets and say: we already have a pact for childhood. No, we must now get to work on a subcommission, as said for the first time by a Popular Party minister, our spokesman, Dolors Montserrat, the prime minister who spoke of the pact for children. We need to get to work to listen to experts, professionals, people who are working with children every day, also parents, mothers, of course autonomous communities and of course local entities. That is the work that I ask of you and that will also be asked of you by all civil society. It doesn't end here with three pages on top of this table. I tell you that I want to see them there too, not just to get here, as I say, in plan: we will have a great recognition. Of course, a follow-up committee must also be set up. We also need to see day by day how these measures are going to be taken. This is not just about taking three measures. For example, 220 measures had been taken in the Covenant against Macho Violence. That is truly a state pact, not what we have here today, which, as I say, is a good step, a good start, a great commitment but for the state pact for our childhood to be strong, stable and lasting it must be a good agreement. That has been one of the amendments tabled by the People's Party. Children need stable and lasting policies, such as those launched in the seven years of the People's Party Government, such as the recognition of the best interests of the child, something so important that it has protected and defended the interests of children by amending more than twenty laws in Spain. Support for day care has also been created, as you know, through a tax deduction of more than EUR 1000 per year and aid to large families. Also the money that has been earmarked to strengthen our social services, our municipalities, which are the first door that touches a family that needs it. More than 100 million euros in the 2018 budgets, which you are enjoying as a government. But things, as I said, to do them well must be done without haste and everything cannot be made politically profitable. You cannot be looking every half hour for a press headline to cover up everything that the socialist government does wrong; you have to get to work because you have to govern for the future of a country, not for the future of a political party, and that is what you do wonderfully from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I must also tell you that it is clear that politics is not worth everything. We have to be serious, we have to be responsible and we have to sit and hold that hand in order to understand ourselves in a subcommission where there is a real great pact of state for the childhood of our country, because it deserves it the future of our children, the childhood and, above all, our families in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Heredia. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO ACHIEVING THE PREVIOUS REQUEST TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNIA CONCERNING ARTICLE 155 OF THE CONSTITUTION. [[File number 162/000805]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u82	We move on to the debate on the next item on the agenda, a non-legislative proposal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group concerning the pre-requisition of the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which provides for article 155 of the Constitution. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are defending what is needed at this time for Spain and, above all, what many Spaniards see as a necessity, which is to enforce the Constitution everywhere in Spain. Article 155 of our Constitution - which was already applied after the coup d'état in Catalonia, after 6 and 7, after 1 October, after 27 in the end, after the coup against our democracy - we had to apply it by the Government, by pushing it, and by the General Courts, by enforcing the Constitution. It was not easy to apply it because it had never been applied in our country and it was not simple because article 155, which is copied from the German Constitution, is an exceptional clause, a closing clause, precisely for when some political leader or government is dedicated to going against the Constitution or the general interests of Spain. That is precisely why, because it is an existing article of our Constitution and precisely because we have already applied it, after the elections and the situation that has occurred, Mr Torra, far from being a moderate who claudes before democracy after what Puigdemont did and far from rectifying, what he does every day is to encourage violence. Mr Torra, directly - textual words - tells the separatist commands that they have to tighten the democrats more closely. That has consequences, consequences on the threatened, on the prosecutors, on the judges, on our families - their families -, on the councillors, on the Members of Parliament, on the officials, on the shops; in short, on thousands and thousands of Catalans who are Spanish, among other things, because they need to feel protected also by their Government. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today I bring to this House a request from the national assembly of this country, from the Congress of Deputies, a request, in this case to the Government, for a mandate for the implementation of the Constitution. Article 155, as you know perfectly well, requires a prior request, an activation of that article with a formal request to the Autonomous Government. Does it not seem common sense to you what our Constitution says, that we must apply the Constitution and that we must first give one last instance to the autonomous government? What we bring here today to the Government, what this House is asking the Government of Spain to do is to activate that requirement; as simple as that. If Mr. Torra is calling for violence, if he has just appealed to the dead on the Slovenian road - the worst possible example, which is a war - if we have the Mossos d'Esquadra and the unions of the Mossos openly saying that before the roadblocks or railway stations do not give them the instructions to act, if we have the evidence that Mr. Torra has no intention of defending the Constitution, if there are constitutional rights violated by the Government of the Generalitat, first of all, the question is: Does this Government not really seem reasonable simply to make a requirement for the Government of the Generalitat to act? To us, yes. [[Applauds]] The Government has a political obligation and a moral obligation, which is to defend the integrity of all people living in this country. It has a political obligation to defend the constitutional rights of all Spaniards, including Catalans. It has an obligation to implement and to implement the Constitution. We are in a decentralized country, yes, but we are in a constitutional nation in which rights and freedoms are defended and exercised anywhere in Spain. So this is not a set of tribes in which feudal lords decide when rights can or cannot be fulfilled. We are in a constitutional, democratic country of the 21st century and of the European Union. Mr Torra or Mr Buch have no right to decide whether or not there is a right of demonstration in Catalonia, as it has been allowed to attempt to violate the right of demonstration of civil guards, police officers or constitutional citizens. They have no right to say whether or not the constitutional rulings on bilingualism apply, they have no right in this case to cease to apply the Constitution. Therefore, what we bring you here is very simple: that the Government make a request. And the Government of Catalonia has two options. If that requirement is made to him, we will claud before democracy and answer affirmatively, saying: yes, we comply with the Constitution, we will apply it and we will defend those rights. And if Mr. Torra is not able to abide by, comply with and enforce the Constitution, it will have to be done by the Government of the nation and the General Courts. That's what we're saying, this is what we're talking about. Lords of the Socialist Party, do you not realize that you are complicit in everything that happens in Catalonia if you do not apply the Constitution? Do you not realize that if there is a misfortune this Friday, if Friday is cut off, if Friday does not allow a Council of Ministers of a nation to meet, everything that happens this Friday in Catalonia is also your responsibility? We already know that Mr Torra who is a xenophobic, we already know that they call us mad beasts - you too, by the way - we already know that he is a gentleman who does not respect democracy, but the government of the nation has to do so. I ask you, truly - and I promise you that I ask you to go beyond the political question, as a Catalan, as a Spanish citizen - to rectify, to stop having as allies those who want to liquidate our nation and to start rectifying the course and to reach out to the majority of this House to sit down and decide which competences have to be applied in the case of 155. All, partial, security? Which ones? Let's talk. Secondly, how long does 155 have to be applied until there is a president of the Generalitat who respects, abides and applies the Constitution? And, thirdly, what do we have to do better than what was done in the implementation of the previous 155, when it had to be implemented by the former Government of the nation and with the support of its party? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I really believe that I am asking you something that your own voters share, at least a good part of them, which is to apply and defend the Constitution in every corner of Spain. So, I am not going to scream, I am not going to get angry, I am not going to ask you to just agree on everything; I am only asking you to agree on one thing: to defend the rights and freedoms of all citizens, and that means applying the Constitution at this time. Therefore, if we do not want to regret in the future what is happening in Catalonia these days; if we do not want to look into the eyes of the citizens and say: we did not do it and allow it to happen; if we do not want the judges to have to act again and apply the Penal Code; if we want to do real politics, with capitals, what needs to be done is to defend the Constitution. Do you think that Angela Merkel or Mr. Macron, any political leader or president of the United States would not react to the separatist challenge that Mr. Torra, Mr. Puigdemont or his partners are making? Really not? If you vote favorably today and rectify, you will open a new path, the path of consensus, the path of implementation of the Constitution, the path of return to constitutionalism. But if you vote against today, you will be conveying a lethal message to the Spaniards: you will be telling them that they care more about staying in the government at any price than defending the Constitution, they will be telling them that they care more about Mr Sánchez's armchair, which entered through the back door, than defending the Constitution in Spain. [[Applauds]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect, to rectify, to return to the path of constitutionalism because, even if you disagree in many things, you must agree on the issues on which we play so much. This country has overcome a coup d'état on 23-F, this country has overcome a separatist coup in Catalonia, this country has overcome and defeated terrorism. At this crucial moment in history, you cannot be mistaken as an ally; you have an obligation with Spain as a government of the nation and as a party that has been a party of government for many years. I ask you to rectify it; if you do, count on us, but if today you touch the red button, if today you vote against applying the Constitution in Catalonia, you will break all possible bridges for a future and, of course, the Spaniards, as they have already done in Andalusia, will prove it to you in the ballot box. I hope that today the Constitution will be implemented, that today we will begin to implement the Constitution, that they will rectify, and that we will reach out to them to do so. Do you want a dialogue? Dialogue, but with those with whom we defend the Constitution, not with those who want to liquidate it. [[Applauds]] It's over, President. Stop humiliating yourself and stop humiliating us. Stop humiliating yourself with a Mr. Torra who doesn't give you any meetings because he wants to talk about self-determination and stop humiliating the Spanish people because when it doesn't comply with the Constitution in Spain, there are many Spaniards who comply with the law, who pay taxes and who defend the equality they feel offended and humiliated. It is time for dignity, to recover broken bridges and for you to rectify. If they do, count on us; if they do not, not only do they not count on us, but they will face us precisely to defend the Constitution and because there is no chair that is worth it, there is no political and personal career that is worth more than coexistence and democracy in our nation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. As no amendments to this initiative have been tabled, the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa, is taking the first step in laying down positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Rivera, don't be upset. He threatened the PSOE if they pressed the red button. Well, I want to start by telling you that the MPs of the Democratic Party are going to press the red button. Let's press the red button against this pantomime of non-law proposition that insults the most elementary constitutional mechanisms over 155. A non-legislative proposal in the Congress of Deputies to urge the Government, to what? Because the activation of 155 is based on concrete facts, which you, beyond a rhetoric in this rostrum and lies, have not made concrete. If you, Dr. Rivera, want to talk about the facts for activation of 155, well it would be that you concretely in this lesson, from this rostrum, what you mean. But we are not talking about this, we are talking about this sleepless struggle between the citizen voice and the PP to form a government in Andalusia, in which you are going to Paris to try to take a picture with President Macron, but you are willing to agree with the extreme right-wing macho in Andalusia for the formation of a government. [[Applauds]] Is this your party's liberal profile? We see the threat of a man's red button telling us what's going to happen this Friday. He says so with a passion that you seem to want this Friday to be a conflict and that the Mossos d'Esquadra, the integral police of Catalonia, and the police that are present will not guarantee security, as they will guarantee it. [[applause]] [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] By the way, I've heard Mr. Rivera talk about roadblocks, altercations, Mossos d'Esquadra protocols. Mr Rivera, during the implementation of Article 155 roadblocks occurred up to eleven times in Catalonia, under the supervision of the Ministry and the Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, who will one day have to explain the news that is appearing in the last few hours regarding his attitudes and the use of funds reserved for the dirty war in Catalonia. And the Mossos d'Esquadra, during the implementation of 155 and two weeks ago, have applied exactly the same protocol, because the Mossos d'Esquadra are a police with a long history, respectability and professionalism, which would also deserve the respect and consideration of their group and of the proposing person. Speaking of organized commands and covered faces, covered faces that remove yellow bonds, those that constrain the freedom of expression in Catalonia and the possibilities of coexistence and dialogue. Because you threaten the majority group - the group that supports the Government, to be more precise - that any kind of dialogue will be broken. This is a bit of parliamentary sham, Mr Rivera, because everyone here is free to come up to this rostrum to argue their point of view, to vote freely and to dialogue. I think it's very good that we've moved on. We, the PDeCAT, are very proud that on June 1st we passed the page of an impossible government of Spain, with a People's Party supported by Citizens, with some sadistic impulses not of reformulation of the State of Autonomies, but of suppression of the State of Autonomies; this sometimes seems to be their unrecognizable dream; one of their intellectual totems that distribute Carnes on the blocks of constitutionalists and non-constitutionalists. If a political party has profoundly weakened the constitutional consensus of these last forty years, it has been the eruption of Citizens here giving lessons, trying to overflow everyone, trying not to respect what was done forty years ago. Forty years ago, the Catalan minority was here and made its contributions, and some others, as solvents, have come to wear, scream, tweet, make spots, be unable to articulate majorities of government and participate in majorities of government. Mr Rivera, before Christmas I suppose you've made your spot, you've even threatened a parliamentary group if you don't press the button you said. This is a non-legislative proposal but you know very well that the implementation of the 155 requires some elements that are within the jurisdiction of the Government and that are voted in the Senate. But you, along the way, all this was lost in your constitutional law classes. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u87	Mr President, very briefly because it does not give much of itself. First, article 155 makes a constitutional reservation to the Government. It is up to the Government to assess whether or not the circumstances set out in 155 are given, not Parliament. And that is to want to be indirectly arrogated through this non-legislative proposal a protagonism that constitutionally does not belong either to the proposing group or to this House. Secondly, non-compliance cannot be abstract, it must be a specific non-compliance, as provided for in Article 155, a non-compliance with specific obligations which you do not need. Moreover, if one goes - and saves me the comments on the vocabulary used in the explanatory statement - to a very significant paragraph which is that of the accusations to the Generalitat, and to the president in particular, it says: an immoral and explicitly anti-democratic act and which is extremely grave, intolerable and of a capital irresponsibility. Beyond that some may share and others not these accusations, listen, you may think this, but this is not the subject of 155. An immoral and explicitly anti-democratic attitude in your opinion, which is extremely grave, intolerable and of a capital irresponsibility, where do you read this in 155? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Calling Violence]] No, no, it is if an autonomous community fails to fulfil its obligations under the Constitution or other laws. Concrete, concrete. And they're not capable of concretizing. They are not able to concretely because they should also concretely... [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] But, my mother, it seems like a ventriloquist handles you when you're in the chair, it's impossible for you to stand still when we intervene with the other Lord Rivera, really, make him look at you, put on a mirror or put on some videos. [[Applauds]] It's just not for you, you get a milk shake when the others are in the rostrum! [[Applauds]] Stop fooling around and telling us things. I was just saying... no, I still have time, three minutes and nine. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: You said it would be brief]] [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, I'm done. Look, you'll have to ask the Generalitat, or you'll have to ask the government for something specific, a concrete measure, but who's going to do it? To correct it, who, the Government of Spain? No, you're wrong, you'll have to correct the Government of the Generalitat, that's what 155 says. That's what 155 says. The requirement is for it to be corrected and the measures can be taken by the Government, because 155, which was taken out of hand by the People's Party with its help, and also with the cooperation of the PSOE, passed absolutely all the barriers to what the text of the Constitution says. It will have to be a measure for the Government of the Generalitat to be forced to comply with it. And, thirdly - to see if it gets in their heads - it is not possible to suppress the autonomy of an autonomous community, it is not constitutional. And what you come to say in your writing is: Eliminate autonomy and take control of the reins of the Catalan Government the Spanish Government. No, this is not possible, this is not constitutional and this, frankly, in political terms, beyond all that, is a real barbarity if you really want to find solutions, which I hope, in the end, you will find. Nothing more and thank you very much. I've got two minutes left and something. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u89	Good afternoon to everyone. The Citizens' Group for the umpteenth time calls on the Government to reapply 155, i.e. to have the State intervened by Parliament and the Government of Catalonia. They'd like it to be forever. Nothing new under the sun, they continue to pursue the dream of the Spanish extreme right, return to the 'One, large and free' in Constitution version. We are never surprised, it is the eternal crusade of the Spanish classic right against reds and separatists. Nothing new; they carry it in their DNA. Citizens do not care about precarious workers, the unemployed, impoverished pensioners or access to housing, as they demonstrated when they brought their one-time contract here, making a mockery of it when they presented it. The only thing that worries them is, as always, their sacrosanct unity of Spain, which, as the Falange said, is a good in itself. José Antonio Primo de Rivera said: "Doesn't the right or the left sound like it?", Spain. The same was said in the current Rivera: All people, the social classes, have the same interests: Spain. And if someone doesn't agree, then 155. But reality is more complex and clumsy. One example: the grand ceremony of celebration of the forty years of the Constitution did not count on the presence of the majority of the Catalan deputies democratically chosen in Catalonia for this Congress. Realities. It did not count on the presence of the deputies of the PDECAT, nor with the deputies of En Comú Pomera nor with the deputies of the Republican Left. Of the 47 deputies present and elected for this Congress, only 18 went to their big party. Those are realities. But for you in Catalonia there is no political problem, as would be seen in any advanced democracy, but there is a legal problem, simply a matter of public order, as if we were talking about stealing chickens or jumping a traffic light. That's his conception. In Comú Puem, PDeCAT and Esquerra Republicana, it is clear that Catalonia is a nation, but it is also clear to the members of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, who have no doubt since their founding that Catalonia is a nation. Go and add it up. The PSC that did not do so much, even in this Congress, voted in Parliament for a legal and agreed referendum; not so long ago of this - remember - in 2013. Even Mr Borrell publicly acknowledges that Catalonia is a nation. By the way, I'm still waiting for Mr. Borrell's public apology for his slander. [[Applauds]] Anyway, everyone with their conscience. And that's the problem, they don't accept that Catalonia is a nation. It's hard for them. They don't accept it. As long as you do not accept the clumsy and historic reality, the conflict will continue, with 155 and without 155. I remind you that the economic intervention of the Generalitat was already done by Mr Montoro in July 2017; I remind you that 155 already applied it a year ago - as they want it forever - but on December 21st we won the elections again the sovereignists and the independenceists, despite everything. If I may, I will give you a piece of advice, Mr Casado and Mr Rivera, Mr de Ciudadanos and Mr de Partido Popular: look more at Adolfo Suárez than at Mr Abascal. I'll tell you why. Suárez had enough guts - which you do not have - as for 1977, a year before the Constitution, to restore the Generalitat of Catalonia with Tarradellas. Suárez recovered the only de facto republican institution, Catalonia's self-government, which is prior to the Constitution, its courts, its monarch and its laws, whether they like it or not. Suarez knew that we are stubborn and persistent, so you can send back thousands of police, those you want; send us to the entire judicial brigade to repress, those you want; use the Criminal Code and the judicial system to cover up political decisions, pervert the justice system, do it, but we will never give up our longings. But more than you, who are the far right and there is nothing to do, carry it in your DNA, I would like to address the Socialist Party colleagues, Mr Sánchez and his Members. Last week Mr. Sanchez told us he didn't want to be Cameron. Well, if your model is not the United Kingdom or Canada, say whether your model is the same as Mr. Married or Mr. Rivera's, or Abascal's. Or, as we see it, his model is Rajoy's, of giving up politics. We want to know clearly. In fact, since 2010, when the Catalans were imposed on us a statute also brushed by you and the Constitutional Court, an existing statute that has not been voted on - so constitutionalists remember, it has not been voted on - since then there has only been repression, nothing else, no offer, nothing, nothing. If I may give a piece of advice, Mr Sánchez, I would start, for example, by asking Mr Montilla of the PSC why he led the demonstration on 10 July 2010 against the Constitutional Court's ruling behind a banner saying: We are a nation and we decide. Climb In Comú Pomão, PDeCAT, Esquerra Republicana and the PSC. And what's left? The far right. That's what there is. Mr Sánchez, you have a great opportunity, but do not doubt that with repression you will always have us in front of you; always. I'm done. We will go on, as we did after Prat de la Riba, the first president of the Catalan Mancommunitat, was imprisoned; as we went on after Francesc Macià, president of the Generalitat, was exiled and imprisoned; as we went on after Lluís Companys was imprisoned, exiled, handed over by the Gestapo to Spain, tortured and shot; as we went on after, in exile, with Josep Irla; as we went on thirty-eight years after the exile of Josep Tarradellas. As you can see, prison and exile are part of our past and present, and as we remember, we know that if we resist in circumstances far more adverse than the present, how are we not going to resist its 155. Come on! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u91	Thank you, President. This non-legislative proposal urges the Government to fail to comply with the Constitution. They want to reapply article 155 - which they have been claiming for months - to burden themselves with the right to autonomy of Catalonia, guaranteed in article 2 of the Constitution, without any facts justifying it, unless statements or opinions are grounds for suspending autonomy. Mr. Rivera, this almost sounds like a coup d'état, doesn't it? To suspend Catalonia's autonomy in violation of the Constitution itself. If you demanded compliance with article 47, which guarantees the right to housing; 35, the right to work; 50, the right to adequate and permanently updated pensions, as well as 155, perhaps we would have made much progress in solving the real problems of people's lives, but the social articles of the Constitution do not interest you at all. By the way, Mr Torra - we have to say - is also not very interested in the social articles of the Statute. Look, Catalonia's self-government is not yours, it's the citizens of Catalonia. But in addition, what problem did the application of article 155 solve? What exactly was it for? It was the culmination of the demolition of the territorial part of the Constitution, which began with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. In the words of the Professor of Constitutional Law Mr Pérez Royo, it was the certification of a failure, the certification that on the basis of the 1978 constitutional text there is no longer an answer for the integration of Catalonia into the State. They can suspend autonomy, but how will they prevent millions of people from stopping thinking and voting as they do now? How long will 155 apply, until people vote like you want them to vote? [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, this would be a blow to democracy. And now Pablo Casado doubles the bet and demands that independence groups be illegalized. The PP directly wants to liquidate the Constitution because it guarantees the right to assembly, demonstration, association and ideological freedom. A piece of advice, Mr. Rivera. If Citizens want to differentiate themselves from Vox, perhaps, instead of being so attentive to the picture in Andalusia, they could start by not bringing Abascal's proposals to Congress, such as to liquidate the state of autonomy with this unconstitutional 155. [[Applauds]] It is an ultra-right of which Aznar - his mentor, Mr Rivera - has said that he is not a breaker with constitutional order. Without a doubt, Aznar has been confused and meant that Vox is not a breaker with the fundamental laws of the Movement, because a force contrary to human rights is outside the values and principles of any democratic constitution. What happens is that Citizens long for the times of a PSOE kidnapped by 155 to avoid a progressive majority. Let us hope that the Government will never fall into this elephant trap, which is 155 or any control formula of Catalonia's self-government, and that Esquerra and PDeCAT will not fall into the trap of favoring the reactionary alliance by not approving the budgets. The problem is that you have no ethics of conviction or ethics of responsibility. They're called liberals, but unfortunately in Spain we don't have a liberal centerright, it's an empty space. The proof is that they will accept the ultra-right's vows to rule in Andalusia. It is a pity that they do not take examples of liberals like Stéphane Dion, the father of the Canadian Clarity Act, who led the Quebec conflict and who said, in reference to the Catalan case, that it is not very useful to hide behind the Constitution without formulating the reasons why it is worth staying together. The only reason that PP and Citizens scrimmage is the authoritarian imposition and is worrying its lack of scruples and responsibility, its all worth. Together with the PP, they are giving a false image of Catalonia as a society without freedom, with violence and with schools where it indoctrinates to justify 155. You, like others, need to maintain and, if you can, set fire to the conflict in Catalonia in order to obtain electoral revenues. In conclusion, I would like to say that I believe that there is a new political axis in Catalonia and Spain: the worst, the better. It is the front of irresponsibility, where Citizens are, the PP, also some independenceists and some PSOE barons who want to illegalize parties. They do not care that what Gil de Biedma said is fulfilled: 'Of all the stories of History the saddest is undoubtedly that of Spain, because it ends badly'. And we are those who from different positions believe that a conflict like Catalan is resolved with dialogue, with negotiation, applying democratic principles, recognizing the other. That is why I want to tell you, Mr de Esquerra and Mr PdeCAT, that the best antidote against those who want everything to end badly is to seize the opportunity and have both governments meet this Friday. To turn our backs on dialogue, as President Torra did - in this he has also been left alone - is to turn our backs on the majority who want solutions and proposals. We are not willing and will not allow the history of Catalonia and the history of Spain to end badly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u93	Thank you, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. No, Mr Rivera, you do not come to pose what Spain needs, you come to pose what you need, because you only know how to talk about one thing: 155. Mr. Rivera, the motion of censure is not the back door of anything, the motion of censure is the Constitution. The back door is where you're making a deal with Vox. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, there are no legal facts justifying the application of 155. You, with your proposal, banalize 155. [[One Member: Very well!- Mr Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] When he ruled his political partner, the People's Party, two illegal referendums were held, the Constitution and the Statute were tried to be abolished, a unilateral declaration of independence was attempted, and in those months you had doubts. Mr Rivera made statements calling for that exception not to be applied so as not to give them - quotes - 'a fantastic headline' to the nationalists. Neither will we give it to it nor will we apply it, they said then, and those were legal acts that skipped the Constitution. But it quickly changed, as always, and their political opportunism has led them to ask for it permanently. Basically, you don't ask 155 to defend the Constitution, you ask for it to fuel the conflict and get electoral advantages, Mr Rivera. But, Lords of Citizens, defending the Constitution is defending it all, not just a part. The Constitution is not a free buffet where you take only what interests you, you also have to defend it against xenophobics, homophobes and those who want to repeal the laws of gender violence and so much progress that it has guaranteed us. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] Since you voted against Mr Rajoy's motion of censure, you have been prisoners of the PP. The request for a perpetual 155 is the first payment for the Citizens' contract with the People's Party and Vox. Your alliance of fire with the far right is irresponsible. Why don't you listen to Mr. Valls, who asked to isolate the French far right from Marine Le Pen? Instead, here they are willing to whiten Mr. Abascal, the one protected and financed by Le Pen. Or is it that stopping to the far right is only valid from the Pyrenees up and not down, and the most voted list is only valid from the Despeñaperros up and not down? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived.]] You are arsonists, you want power burning together in Spain. All they do is throw gasoline into the conflict; they're irresponsible. They practice burning land policy, not a single solution. Remember when they voted to keep the People's Party in power? Now they go further, they want to return power to the People's Party with their pact with Vox and the 155 is the blanket they use to hide their dark and shameful agreements with the xenophobic, homophobic, sexist and anti-abortionist ultra-right against all the advances that forty years of democratic constitution have given us all the Spaniards. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Rivera. They presented themselves to the elections convened in Catalonia by Mr Rajoy, were the most voted and instead of running for the presidency only ask for 155, disregarding the votes they received as if they were of no use. Since the ruling of the socialists, all the firmness of the law and all the force of dialogue has been applied, and the results are that the law is being enforced in Catalonia and that it is becoming political, and you should be happy as democrats. Gentlemen of Citizens, the lack of moderation, constitutionalism and Europeanism have been removed from one pact; they are now only the necessary collaborator for them to rule the People's Party and Vox. Who has seen them and who sees them! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u94	Mr Roca Mas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Party of Tarragona in 2011 supported a socialist mayor who had no majority and for four years allowed him to rule with stability by allowing him to approve the budgets. We did the same with Convergence and Union, which came to a Generalitat ruined by the tripartite and needed someone to support and approve budgets and omnibus laws. We did it even though we could have taken the path of revenge because they had taken us to the Tinnell Pact, to the notari, they had brought unconstitutional status to this House, we could have made a lot of reproaches but they did not lead to anything, because if sectarianism and intolerance are faced with resentment and revenge, you know when you start but not how you end up. I believe that the People's Party of Catalonia has earned the right to talk about coexistence, Catalonia and democracy. We will decide today to support the dismissal of the Government of the Generalitat and it is up to me to reason why. The first is an argument that we can share with all those of us in the People's Party and that some certainly do not, and I refer to the relations of nationalism with ETA. They have opened the doors of Catalan institutions to the terrorist gang; they have managed to make some of their followers selfies with a terrorist. We are the party of José Luis Ruiz Casado and Francisco Cano, councillors of the PP of Catalonia murdered by ETA, we are the party of my fellow chairman and friend Jaime Mateu, whose father killed the terrorist gang and then his brother. [[Applauds]] These photos are sufficient arguments for us to call for the removal of the Government of the Generalitat. But there are more, there are a few more reasons: the hundreds of articles written by Quim Torra; that close the Parliament when it gives them the will because it suits them well or because it does not suit them; that they have made lists of judges and prosecutors concerned with the regime; that they have harassed judges and politicians in their homes, in their homes; fill the courts with dung; close roads, trains, infrastructure; that there are attacks on people for thinking differently or for demonstrating with a Spanish flag; the anti-democratic occupation of public space with ties, with paintings. And all of that, which many might say happens in other latitudes, is driven, promoted, and sprung from the Government of the Generalitat. They have created an anti-democratic climate in Catalonia from the government of an autonomous community. One day we will have to talk about the overly positive incentives that affect the regime and overly negative ones that we have that democratically want to oppose a government. And there is a reason that goes beyond anything imaginable, although some of us had already seen clues: the declaration of the Slovenian road, the threat of civil conflict if you do not give in to their pretensions. It links with a document of the Catalan National Assembly - promoted by the Government - which spoke of taking - by force - strategic infrastructures, communication centres, airports, etc. They have tried to buy military weapons from the Government of the Generalitat and the ministry had to abort it; they have threatened to paralyze the economy, to paralyze the country, to kidnap an entire society if we did not bend to their unconstitutional desires. And all that has been done from the government. No one in Europe does that. I know that Spanish politics is hooliganized, we are the blues, the reds, the oranges, the purples, the yellows, but do an exercise of intellectual honesty, go to Europe and ask people from different groups, from all over the parliamentary arc: A government that espouses the violent, a government that takes photos and whites terrorism, a government that threatens judges, that threatens judges, that allows it, consents to it and shouts to them: "Apreteu!, apreteu!, a government that imposes an anti-democratic climate where it governs, you believe - ask any European - that deserves to follow just one second? Do it, I say it with all honesty and all modesty. [[Applauds]] We believe that yes, that someone who has written about other human beings as Quim Torra has done cannot follow a minute at the head of any government. That is what we believe, and that is why we think that the Government of the Generalitat must be removed, in order to normalize Catalonia, to restore full democracy, in order to put an end to the anti-democratic climate and, above all, to one thing - and I repeat, the Slovenian road - when they threaten us with a civil conflict. I believe that the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia must be removed so that our children and grandchildren do not do what our grandparents unfortunately did. That is why we are voting yes to this non-legislative proposal. Visca Catalunya free of nationalism! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u96	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, into the phenomenon of torture and ill-treatment in the Spanish State. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u97	Thank you very much, President. We pointed out in the inquiry to the Government last week that in the last fifty years the greatest number of fatalities and large injuries has been caused by the various branches of ETA and that specific laws have been developed regarding them... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u99	... that, although improveable, they have offered them an important coverage of recognition and reparation, and without prejudice to these laws and in parallel they have also received social reparation through their recognition and homage. However, and beyond these victims of ETA terrorism, in the democratic period and in the context of the fight against this terrorism, there have been other victims for having suffered torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, and this has been objectively contrasted in reports from international human rights agencies such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the United Nations Special Rapporteurs against Torture and the Committee on the Prevention of Torture. These ill-treatments, these behaviors against human rights, in chronicles and information, and in reports prepared by academic and expert bodies, such as the current mayor of Madrid, Manuela Carmena, and Bishop Juan María Uriarte, have also been contrasted. Although we also recall, as we did during the interpellation, that since 2015 there have been no recorded cases, coinciding precisely with the fact that incommunicado police arrests have ceased to be authorized. That is why the State institutions were called upon to take up the path that began in the early years of the democratic process, when a special commission of inquiry into alleged ill-treatment of detainees in the Basque Country was set up in this House, to give effect to the reparation, truth and justice of these other victims caused by actions of unlawful repression in the context of the fight against ETA terrorism, ill-treatment caused, we are sure, by a small minority of public officials who lead to question the other great majority who never committed them. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, what is of interest, as I stressed in the question, is just to look at the victims, to think exclusively of them, because, as I pointed out last week, terrorist actions did not justify a single violation by abuse of power, but the existence of human rights violations cannot be presented as a confrontation between violence caused by a political conflict either. Under no circumstances can one pretend, even in a veiled manner, to contextualize ETA's terrorism neither to equate violence or victims nor to justify terrorist violence under the assumption of police abuse or to erode the social and democratic rule of law, but what is intended is to reinforce it without prejudice to the fact that this issue of abuse of power must be dealt with with with with with prudence, consensus and sensitivity. Nor is it intended to erode coexistence, but, on the contrary, to normalize and build it from the memory and reparation of any violation of human rights. We also called for the recognition of these victims of human rights violations for a democratic commitment to the rule of law, which should not be their downfall, but their strongest consolidation. Finally, this initiative is necessary for the normalization of coexistence and the construction of a critical memory of the past after the end of the unjust history of ETA. Only with the sensitivity to the suffering and injustice suffered by the victims, also for these victims along with many others who have suffered the consequences of violence and terrorism in the Basque Country and elsewhere, can a true culture of human rights be built. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u100	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs Ramos Jordan, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u101	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes the case that there are motions in this House that are particularly relevant to us. For me, this is the case, and I anticipate that our group will vote in favour. We think that this motion is not only of justice but very timely, and it is for what it contains of reparation of damage and of memory, but also for what it can mean for the present and for the future. I said that it is personal; it is for me and it is, I know, for many other Members of this House. Because what some call sporadic cases are friends, they're family and they're our neighbors. In 1992, just as the Law career began, several people were arrested in Barcelona in the context of marches organized for the Olympic Games. These persons reported torture and ill-treatment and, finally, the Court of Strasbourg condemned the Spanish State for the absence of an effective official investigation. I lived very closely these cases and what they entail; they involve fear, defencelessness and loneliness, because torture, ladies and gentlemen, is the multi-organic failure of democracy. The police officer who tortures you fails you; the judge and the prosecutor who should watch the police; the politician who should make laws that avoid it fails you; the society and the means to silence it fails you. I also remember, in 2018, how Jorge Bolancel threw himself on the tracks of the train just after being subjected to tough interrogations at a police station. I would also like to recall the violent death of Juan Andrés in 2013 in the Raval neighborhood as a result of an arrest by the Mossos d'Esquadra. Or cases of ill-treatment as a result of Operation Pandora in 2014, as well as the deaths of Idrissa Diallo and Samba Martine in the CIEs of Aluche and Zona Franca. I think it is important to remember all these cases because, as Ariel Dorfman puts in his play Death and the maiden, torture is built on impunity and it can only end with the complaint and recognition of these victims. This is essential in a State where there are still torturers, not just amnesties but awards, and it is the responsibility of everyone and everyone to prevent this impunity from being normalized in a democratic State. I would also like to take this opportunity, because I think it is very important, to reflect on the victim. That is why we were very surprised that Mr Marlaska said that we cannot and must not put on the same side of the scale the violence of the terrorist organization ETA with absolutely exceptional and extraordinary cases of misuse of public media. Because, on the one hand, these cases are not so extraordinary or so sporadic and because, coinciding with Mr Legarda in that although this does not mean any comparison or impairment of the pain of all the victims of ETA, we should talk about the victim. Because the same cannot be expected of a dictatorship, an armed struggle group or a criminal organization as of a rule of law. The rule of law has a guarantee position. I, as a citizen, must be able not only to feel safe, but to have the necessary mechanisms to monitor your action and repair the damage. Even if it is only a victim - and I say this to Mr Marlaska, who is not here - we must interpellate ourselves as a society and establish all possible political mechanisms to recognize, repair and prevent it in the future. That is why we will vote in favour of this motion and add some amendments because looking to the past, to the reparation of the victims and based on the relevant convictions of Spain in the European Court of Human Rights and in the UN Human Rights Committee, we believe that the coherent thing would be that the reports of recognition and reparation should not be limited to the context of the fight against ETA, but to all the complaints that have remained unanswered in the judiciary throughout the Spanish State. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that torture and ill-treatment have occurred many times and in various scenarios. In view of the high percentage of pardoned convicts in respect of the total number of public servants convicted of ill-treatment and torture, which has allowed them to evade the enforcement of the sentence imposed by the judiciary, as well as the consequences they would have had for their professional careers, we believe that this should not be an obstacle to the withdrawal of any decoration or honour received. I would add that all this without prejudice to the fact that the prevention of ill-treatment and torture requires a much more comprehensive approach that goes beyond the scope of this motion. That is why we call on the responsibility of those democratic formations - which we do believe the law emanates from democracy - that we can continue to be the necessary majorities in this Congress to be able to push the necessary measures to control, prevent and end not only ill-treatment and torture, but institutional violence that is affecting the police, prison system, and, unfortunately, also judicial, the latter with particular impact on women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are discussing torture at this point, which is one of the worst crimes that can be committed. We are debating a crime that cannot be justified in any way and is of particular relevance when committed by a public official within the framework of a rule of law. On the commission of torture there is the conviction that all democrats must denounce and combat them always since the use of the law. For forty years now, within the constitutional framework and within the rule of law, we have been providing ourselves with all the legal tools to eradicate the practice of torture and any conduct contrary to human rights. From a deep sense of state, all Governments have been pushing for legal reforms to corner this practice. All judgements, instructions or recommendations that have been transferred from international agencies have been complied with and developed. Under these premises, the Government has already developed two measures, such as the adoption of the Second Human Rights Plan or the drafting of Instruction 4/2018 of the Secretariat of State to improve the protocol of action in the areas of custody of detainees. I would like to focus the debate on the two points that underpin Mr Legarda's fundamental argument. Mr Legarda, first of all, the central element of your proposal is the revision of a series of judicial decisions, in the best of cases and in other cases, we must assume that of testimonies or accounts of the crimes that arise in the context of a rule of law. I want to insist on this, in the context of a rule of law. We are therefore talking about a period when the legislative framework, its interpretation and its application depend on the powers of the State. It is therefore up to the judiciary to analyse the conduct that can be considered as torture and even to determine who is the victim, as established by the current legislation. A revision of this principle would involve questioning judicial decisions and ultimately the credibility of the system itself because you in your motion leave fundamental issues on the air such as who would prepare the proposed report, what guarantees that report would have, as if that report would have more legitimacy than the set of judicial decisions relating to the offences that are set out or what legal implications the outcome of that report would have. In view of the doubts that this raises, we have tabled an amendment to this first point because in the terms in which it is drafted we could not agree. But the second argument that you are handling throughout the three interventions that you have had has to do with the danger that in my group's opinion, and which the Government has already expressed, involves the construction of a category from an indefinite number of cases that vary according to the source, a danger that increases if, in addition, we leave open any possible interpretation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u104	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u105	... in the case of ETA terrorism to an equalization of victims by turning the executioners into victims. I want to tell you that if we end terrorism among all democrats, we must write the account of our country's recent history, a story that should include values that you have pointed out as truth and justice, but clearly pointing out who were victims of structured and organized violence and who were your executioners. It is true that in our country there are crimes of torture, cruel or degrading treatment, we cannot ignore the reality of the sentences of national or international bodies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u106	Quiet, please. Quiet. Wait a minute, Your Honor. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence. Go on, Mr. Serrada.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u107	But the number of sentences leads us to this reality: the small number of sentences handed down and complaints admitted to our country for these cases. I'm going to give you some figures very quickly. Between 2012 and 2017, 19 sentences have been handed down in our country on these crimes. With regard to the European Court of Human Rights, our country is among the least accumulating; last year's data say that of the 641 complaints or complaints filed, 634 were rejected. In total, our country accumulates nine convictions of this body, none of them for committing torture in the course of the reported acts or in the arrests carried out. Not even in the Human Rights Commission that was launched between 1979 and 1982 in this Congress, and to which you have been referring, were facts warned that could be denounced, as one of the Members who participated in this work said a few days ago. As I said earlier, it must be the will of all democrats to continue to make progress in the fight against the commission of these crimes. That is why, from my group, a second point has been included in the text of our amendment, in which the necessary steps are being taken to withdraw the decorations granted to public officials convicted of crimes of torture and cruel or degrading treatment. On a technical point, as you know, we have not been able to reach agreement on this point, but you know that it is a commitment of the Government and also of this parliamentary group to be able to continue to make progress not only in the construction of our democracy but also in finding those legal avenues that will enable us to achieve the provisions of point two. To conclude, and briefly, Madam President, I will mention just one point. I want to say that together we are beginning the path of democracy and that together we should continue to make progress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u108	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Legarda, why are you talking about torture as a phenomenon in your motion if you acknowledge in your intervention that we are talking about exceptional practices? You were talking about a tiny part of it. What are you looking for, moving an interested bad image from the Spanish State? They say that there must be no equidistance between violence; certainly, but it is that you, after sixty years of terrorism, have never supported anything effective here to combat this phenomenon. That's a freak. Mr. Legarda said last week that violence didn't get the best out of each of us. False. Lie. If you feel that way, there you are, I understand. But of course he got the best out of a lot of people! He took the best of the officials who trusted in the law to end the terror. And the testimony of the families of the victims of ETA who did not react with hatred and disproportion? That violence didn't get the best out of anyone, Mr. Legarda... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u110	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u111	... it's as much as saying that we were all equally responsible, all equally guilty, all executioners, all victims. There is no greater equidistance or perversion, Mr. Legarda. Today, they act as defense lawyers for the terrorists of Etraras. They've already done it twice, it's been remembered by Congressman Barreda. If you really want to report torture, point at these two. First, the mafia coercion exerted by the collective of support for prisoners by forcing their relatives to demonstrate every week under the threat that their children will remain outside the umbrella of the collective. And second, the torture of their bosses, the elites, negotiating benevolent sentences that prevent them from going to prison, while the sodadesca, the families, forbid them to negotiate more benevolent conditions with the State recognizing the damage caused. [[Rumors]] Mr. Legarda, today the greatest torture of prisoners of age receives it from your own organization. Of course, Mr Legarda, we do not believe that they should be awarded with medals condemned for torture, but we do not believe at all in the sincerity of his proposal and we do not share his whitening vision of Basque nationalist terror. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u112	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still half an hour left in plenary and, please, I ask your ladies and gentlemen to remain silent. That it is the last half hour of plenary and that some of your ladies and gentlemen are now sitting in their seats, does not mean that they are speaking while the speaker speaks. So, please, I beg your silence. While Mr. Salvador was speaking, there were more than fifty people speaking at the same time, demonstrating a lack of respect for Mr. Salvador. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u113	Thank you. As the UN Special Rapporteur against Torture, Theo van Boven, says, in a report, torture in Spain is more than sporadic, while the Government continues to deny its very existence. The mere finding in the first serious and official approach made through the study conducted by forensicsman Paco Etxeberria of more than 4000 cases of torture shows that we can talk about a systemic and systematic practice, a course that has been widely used and that has had a cloak of impunity for which only a few cases have reached the courts, despite which there are nine convictions in Strasbourg, in most cases for not investigating and one for inhuman and degrading treatment. Proof of the impunity they have enjoyed is that, in the few cases in which they have been convicted, they have subsequently been pardoned, promoted and even decorated. The latter, after participating in serious human rights violations, thus endorsing their actions. We believe that coexistence calls, among other things, for recognition of this reality and its victims. Tortured persons need truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. This motion can offer truth, as it will recognize the practice of torture after decades of concealment. However, the expectation of not establishing a guilty relationship with the victim is an unbearable renunciation of providing justice to these victims. Can anyone imagine such treatment for ETA victims by giving up establishing the victim-victim guilt relationship? Again, therefore, a categorization between victims, because in this case they will have been tortured, but there will be no torturers, who are given impunity, are covered up and given a new safe passage. Because, as Strasbourg says, its most serious human rights violations were not and will not be investigated. Without justice, victims cannot access redress and there are also no guarantees of non-repetition if it is not accepted that this practice did not begin with or have been limited to the fight against ETA; nor did it begin in 1978 and have been completed in 2017, and there is a real risk that incommunicado will not disappear from the legal system. In fact, as far as the long list of decorated agents in recent years involved in cases of torture is concerned, we find people who acted in frankness and later, as well as agents convicted, pardoned and decorated on several occasions. It is at least one hundred agents involved in decorated torture, to whom we demand that this recognition be taken away. Many of them are involved in the death of detainees, such as the case of Joxe Arregi, who is one, but many more could be put in. [[Show a picture]] For all that I have said, I shall end by making a request to the PNV and to those who have signed the compromise: if you are willing to accept the point vote, we will support the second point and abstain on the first. If we did not accept it, we would be forced to abstain as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u114	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u115	President, ladies and gentlemen, in this State we have the misfortune of living with various groups of victims of violence: victims of individual violence, gender-based violence, victims of organized violence, and this includes both organized crime and terrorism, but there is a third category that seems to have the gift of invisibility for some groups: victims of institutional violence, and this, ladies and gentlemen, also exists. We are proud that this State is aware and taking action, and increasingly successful, in relation to individual violence and organized violence, and deeply ashamed that it has never moved a finger against institutional violence. We cannot expect anything else, a State which has exiles, which has political prisoners, against the justice of most of Europe's democracies, could not be expected to act in any other way on the subject of institutional torture. The facts are the facts, are the reports of UN rapporteurs, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, who have been systematically ignored by the State. We believe quite clearly that a deep, serious democracy would be distinguished from a low-level democracy because it would only see the violence of others and would never see itss, that is what distinguishes a serious democracy from a low-intensity democracy. There is no need to say what category the Spanish State falls into as it does not recognize institutional violence in any way. We are faced with a minimalist request, with the preparation of a report, for God's sake, what less, or is this not even ready to wait, to say, to accept the Spanish State or the Spanish Government? Of course, our group will support the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you, Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u117	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am being detained at my house at four o'clock in the morning of 6 September 2001 and put in a dungeon... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u118	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u119	...and put me against the wall. I tell the civilian guard I can't breathe and he tells me I have no right to breathe. They take me to Madrid and give me three tips: to obey, to have your eyes closed and not to look them in the face. Start the interrogation. They ask me, and they hit me with sticks lined with insulating tape, that if I know a guy, that if I know a mengane. Each is not a palace in the head. They put me on three skirmishes to dampen the blows, stop and make me the bag. They put a bag in my head and lock it up until I think I'm going to die. Eight times. It's like dying eight times. They stop and make me the elevator; they make me stand and squat for hours. They make me sign a court paper, but I'm so sweaty I end up soaking wet. A woman comes in and identifies herself as a forensic doctor, asks me what's wrong and I tell her what's wrong. He's leaving. After this, the blows are harder, but the questions, the same; standing, in squats, standing. With the palaces I fall to the ground, but they always catch me before I fall completely. They tell me I'm the only son-of-a-bitch who hasn't spoken and that, as it goes, I'll end up like that Lasa. They ask me to tell them anything, but I don't know anything. They're giving me the bag again. They're asking me to tell them where my mother is, that they're going to stop her, that they're doing the elevator to her in a swamp in Vitoria. At some point, they tell me he's dead. They leave me an hour alone. My head swells and I don't see anything. One of them comes to me and he's slapping me. Take me to the doctor. The doctor reassures me and tells me that the judge is aware, that I have to go back to the police station and that they will no longer do anything to me. In the police station, the civilian guards see my head, they see my face, they laugh, they call me a pig and they call me a monster. On September 11, I declared in front of the judge, with a jacket on his head. When I talk to him about torture, he interrupts me and tells me that this in this country is not done and that if I have any complaints go to a police station. I left the Soto del Real infirmary on September 18. This is the face and this is the testimony of Unai Romano, year 2001, before and after. [[Show a picture]] It's undeniable, ladies and gentlemen. You can't deny it. Year 2001. In five minutes it synthesizes forty years of torture, and torture needs impunity. Being an anti-patriot is not asking for explanations for this, being an anti-patriot is not wanting to tackle it. Gentlemen of the PSOE, the other day I offered them a front, an antifascist pact. This is pure antifascism. Let's do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u120	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u121	Thank you, President. Mr. Legarda, gentlemen of the Basque Group, it's too late for you! Mr Legarda, first of all, you are trying to convince us that terrorist sentences, based on a framework decision of the European Council, are not applicable, and at the moment you are bringing us a motion in which you again try to whitewash these terrorists, trying to tell and transform the narrative of the realities, of what happened in our country with the terrorism of the ages, trying to assimilate them to a political conflict for so many years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, I would like to ask you whether this is what the Basques and Basques want to bring to this House, whether these are the things you want to discuss here and believe so important. For I tell you one thing, Mr Aitor, and that is that we are increasingly aware that we need to set a 3% limit for you to be represented in this House, because you only want to talk about these things. [[Applauds]] You bring here nothing for the interest of anyone but exclusively that of you and of those who want to bleach at this time. The face washing that you want to do can be done by active, as Mrs. Bildu has done, or can be done by passive, which is what you are trying to do twice today. I'm going to tell you a reality of someone who can't tell you things. Yesterday Monday he made sixteen years of the death of the civilian guard Antonio Molina in Madrid, here next door, in Villalba, when he stopped a van that brought 200 kilos of explosives that were going to detonate precisely on Christmas of that year. Mr. Antonio Molina can't tell you anything, Mr. Rufián, he can't talk about what happened to him, because he died there, murdered. [[Applauds]] Do you know by whom? For those who are staves. I will tell you by whom, by Mr Aramburu Sudupe and by Mr Jesús María Etxeberria Garaikoetxea. They are the ones who made Mr. Antonio Molina say nothing today, but Mr. Antonio Molina and his partner, who was wounded, are the heroes who saved dozens of Madridns on those Christmases. They're the ones who can't say anything. We are all democrats against torture, how we are not going to be against torture, of course we are, but it must be the judges and the courts, with all the guarantees of rights, who certify and sanction if there have actually been torture, and not initiatives like the one you bring here, who try to introduce a fallacious narrative to equate the victims and the executioners. It can't be. You want to reduce ETA terrorism to a political conflict, forgetting that there is no conflict but a terrorist barbarism. Look, little can be expected of a party that has promoted a Basque law of police abuse that directly violates our Constitution, because it violates the right to honour, violates the presumption of innocence, effective judicial protection and even the distribution of powers between the State and the Basque Autonomous Community. It cannot be a commission that values whether there are tortures or not. Of course, all democrats - I repeat once again - are against torture, but it is the courts that must punish whether or not there was torture and not commissions under the umbrella and at the dawn of a law such as that which you have presented and approved in the Basque Parliament. These vulnerabilities - and I would like to address the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - are endorsed by Mr Sánchez, Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, endorsed from the moment you withdrew the unconstitutionality appeal against that law of police abuse which he introduced and which the Basque Government approved. I would like to know whether the members of the Socialist Party are with the Democrats that we are demonstrating in Alsasua precisely to defend the State Security Forces and Corpses, to defend the rule of law, or you are with the PNV's binomial and the lords of Bildu. [[Applauds]] Where are you? Because Mr Sánchez already knows where he is, Mr Sánchez is with the PNV and Bildu binomial, but it seems a lie that you want to stay there too. Look at you, dismissing the appeal, dismissing that unconstitutionality appeal you are betraying not only all the victims of terrorism, not only the State Security Forces and Corpses, not only the judges and prosecutors, you are betraying all the Spaniards. I ask you to reconsider what you are doing and resubmit that unconstitutionality remedy against that law. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u122	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hernández Bento.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by showing the position of my group in rejecting and condemning any kind of violation of human rights; I understand that it is a position shared by all in the House. The Basque Group is presenting us today with a motion in which it makes an explicit, explicit effort, Mr Legarda, to convince us that, according to your words, under no circumstances does it intend to justify terrorist violence under the assumption of police abuses. You have said it now and in the interpellation, but, Your Honor, if this is so, if this is really what you want, I wonder what the point of this initiative is. What are you looking for? Because we live in a rule of law. All State institutions are subject to the rule of law, which bans arbitrariness and prohibits abuse. Spanish democracy is perfectly capable of purifying these behaviors and repairing their victims. Nor can we forget that respect for justice is a basic requirement of the rule of law; it will agree with me on that. In the light of the reported facts, the Spanish legal system has specific mechanisms to initiate the action of the justice system, including complaints made by incommunicado detainees have extra-judicial guarantees through the Ombudsman, and Spain is a signatory to the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture. To go further is what you propose, to draw up reports that recognize victims of human rights violations without having to establish - as you say - any relationship of guilt. And where do we leave the presumption of innocence? What you propose to us is to single out a kind of violence, and I ask again: Why? To deduce what? That we're facing a conflict? That no one's completely innocent? Look, they're not gonna find us there. There's no way we're gonna consent to that fake match. First of all, for something simple, because we are not talking about a general situation, but about specific cases, but, above all, because you also know that the systematic reporting of ill-treatment or torture was part of the band's strategy that imposed the organization itself on its militants. The reports of the Civil Guard, but also the jurisprudence, say so. I too will read some texts, Mr Rufián; for example, some documents addressed to the Arab Command, but there is more. I open quotes: The denunciation of torture within the political strategy of ETA is a campaign that has been and must always be a norm of every militant fighting for Euskal Herria. I open quotes: Create tension and contradictions among democratic parties, get them to speak out, wear out the military enemy through all the judicial machaque that can be done; if any condemnation is obtained in them, despair goes on. I close quotes. It's textual. Ladies and gentlemen, the only task we should all have and not another, the one that comes after the cessation of ETA's terrorist activity, is to delegitimize them and remove their historical political alibis, nothing else. You tell us that you do not want to do so, but set benchmarks of comparison even with the Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism Act. They talk about truth and justice, and I want to do it too. I want to talk about memory, dignity, justice and truth. [[Applauds]] And I want to do so because those are the pillars of our commitment to comprehensive reparation for the victims of terrorism. Memory, memory, because memory is the guarantee that we will never forget either those who lost their lives or those who suffered physical or psychological injuries or those who were deprived of liberty as a result of terrorist fanaticism or their families - Sea, Jaime -, nor their loved ones, because they symbolize freedom and the rule of law. [[applause]] They are our true references in our democratic system. And yes, the truth is necessary, of course, because we must avoid moral or political equidistance, ambiguities or false neutralitys. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to talk about the State Security Forces and Bodies, because I do not think it is fair to extend a blanket of suspicion on them. What is right is to recognize them for defending us by defending our democracy and for their effectiveness in the fight against terrorism. Let us not forget that the rule of law was the one that defeated ETA. And it does take memory, memory to remember that among its ranks are the greatest number of mortal victims and wounded, more than four hundred; memory to remember the courage and dignity of their families, that during all those very hard years, very hard!, of the fight against terror and barbarism were examples of civicism and of commitment to democracy. [[Applauds]] Thanks to his sacrifice and that of their families Spain regained the freedom that terrorism wanted to annihilate, and for all these reasons we are not going to support this motion. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u124	I ask Mr Legarda Uriarte whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u125	Yes, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u126	Thank you. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun voting. We are going to vote, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, on urgent measures for the protection of consumers with regard to soil clauses. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 338 plus 4 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 89 plus 2 telematics votes, 91; against, 159 plus 1 telematics vote, 160; abstentions, 90 plus 1 telematics vote, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u128	Therefore, it is not taken into account. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANIZATION FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 7/2014, OF 12 NOVEMBER, ON THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION OF CRIMINAL AFFAIRS AND CONSIDERATION OF CRIMINAL JUDICIAL RESOLUTIONS IN THE EUROPEAN UNION. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 122/00290]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u129	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, an organic reform of Organic Law 7/2014 of 12 November, on the exchange of information on criminal history and consideration of criminal judicial decisions in the European Union. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 338 plus 4 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 91 plus 2 telematics votes, 93; against, 163 plus 1 telematics vote, 164; abstentions, 84 plus 1 telematics vote, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u130	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u131	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on budgetary measures complementary to the extension of the budgets of the People's Party. The vote will take place on the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Citizens' and Mixed Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 162 against, 175 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u132	It's rejected. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS IN THE CONGRESS, SOCIALIST, CONFEDERAL OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMONLY POSSIBLE IN MARIA, CITIZENS, DE KERRA REPUBLICANA, VASCO AND MIXTO, RELATING TO A STATE COVENANT FOR CHILDREN. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000872]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u133	We now vote for the non-law proposal of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialist, Confederal of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, of Esquerra Republicana, Vasco and Mixto, concerning a pact of State for children, and we will vote for it, ladies and gentlemen, in its terms. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 334 against, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u134	It's approved. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO ACHIEVING THE PREVIOUS REQUEST TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNIA CONCERNING ARTICLE 155 OF THE CONSTITUTION. [[File number 162/000805]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u135	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, concerning the pre-requisition of the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which provides for article 155 of the Constitution, and we will vote on it in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 163 against, 174 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u136	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u137	We continue with the vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the phenomenon of torture and ill-treatment in the Spanish State. [[EAJ-PNV]] We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea y Vasco [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 89 against, 246 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-12-18-CD181218.u138	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
