ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, in place of Mr José Luis Ábalos Meco, I ask Mrs Alicia Piquer Sancho whether she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u3	In place of dona Margarita Robles Fernández, I ask dona Gema López Somoza if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u4	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u5	In place of Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña, I ask Don Mohammed Chaib Akhdim if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u7	In place of Don Mariano Rajoy Brey, I ask Maria Valentina Martínez Ferro if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u8	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u9	Dona Alicia Piquer Sancho, dona Gema López Somoza, don Mohammed Chaib Akhdim and dona María Valentina Martínez Ferro have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u10	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to include as the first items of today's sitting the consideration of the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1, submitted by all parliamentary groups, and, where appropriate, the agreement on the direct and single reading of this initiative. It is also proposed to include as the last item of today's sitting the direct and single reading of the proposal for a reform of the said Regulation, amending Rule 46.1, subject to consideration of the initiative and adoption of the direct and single reading agreement. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u11	On the other hand, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exclude from the agenda item 23, corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u12	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the consideration of the proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, amending Rule 46.1. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this item, as well as the following, is submitted for approval by consent without prior discussion. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] The proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure is therefore taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u13	It is now for the House to approve the direct and read-out procedure by the plenary of the above-mentioned proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the direct and read-only processing by the plenary of the proposal for a reference reform is approved by consent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, having taken into consideration and adopted the single reading agreement, it is envisaged that the vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1 will take place together with the rest of the votes last. I also announce to you that from this moment on, which is 15:07, an hour's time is open for amendments to this proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure to be presented in the register of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u14	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to combat job insecurity. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u15	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, citizens who accompany us, today we certainly present what is the law and the most important issue that occupies Spanish public life. The fight against job insecurity must be, or at least should be, a priority for this House. It should have been a priority for the government that was elected at the beginning of the legislature and a priority for the temporary government that we currently have. What is certain is that it is a priority for Citizens because we consider that the first problem in Spain is called unemployment, and the other side of the unemployment coin is called precariousness. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, Spain still, after almost forty years of democracy, leads two rankings that we cannot afford for the future of our country: the ranking of unemployment alongside Greece - Spain is the second most unemployed country in Europe - and the one of the most precarious job in Europe, only in tandem with Poland, in those rankings, as I said, disastrous for our country. After three decades of failure - it doesn't matter if it has ruled the Socialist Party, it doesn't matter if it has ruled the People's Party - Spain has had an average of 18% unemployment, doubling the average of European unemployment and, at best, always being at the head of unemployment. In the face of Spain's first problem, what has bipartisanism and the Spanish political system done so far? Basically reform, counter-reform, patches and more patches, but today's reality in Spain is that growing to 3% of GDP, at a time of economic boom, Spain is unable to lower 16% unemployment. To this we add a dramatic fact, and it is that youth unemployment is also among the highest in Europe; therefore, the cocktail is lethal. If the young people in our country do not have jobs, if we are the most unemployed country in Europe alongside Greece - which is certainly not a good example - and if, moreover, nine out of ten contracts signed in the last three years are garbage contracts, contracts to use and throw away, unfortunately, we turn the lives of many people into life to use and throw away, and we do not want anyone's work life, that nobody's future and dream, to use and throw away. We want the Spanish, and in particular the young people, who are the most affected, to have a future in our country and not have to go to other countries to work. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting this bill with the will to achieve three objectives. First, to end three decades of failure and to end the unemployment and precariousness that we have. Secondly, to modernise and have a new framework of labour relations, a framework of labour relations of the twenty-first century where workers, entrepreneurs and small businesses and self-employed people shake hands, do not turn their backs, because there is will and because the economy of the twenty-first century deserves cooperation and does not struggle between workers, self-employed people and entrepreneurs. We believe that they are the protagonists of this law, the workers in the first place, especially the precarious ones, but also in general everyone who works for others. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u16	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u17	On the other hand, the self-employed and the companies they hire must also be protagonists, because here the only interest is that they both agree and generate jobs, especially quality jobs, which we do not have. Thirdly, to break the discrimination between first and second-rate workers. Ladies and gentlemen, with the labour system we currently have, we have pushed 6.5 million workers into precarious conditions who do not arrive at the end of the month and their contracts have an average of one month. Can you imagine that the life and future of many workers in Spain depends on the date of issue and the end of a contract of one month, three months or six months? Does anyone think that you can form a family, have children, have a professional future, develop a career and train if your working life runs out in a month? Ladies and gentlemen, from Citizens we propose and reach out to the rest of the groups to discuss, amend, negotiate and agree on a new framework of labour relations that addresses and does not deny, as the Government has done so far, that there is a problem called precariousness. So from Citizens, as constructive opposition too, we reach out to the groups of the House to see where the point of agreement is, to see how we can work every day so that our workers have equal and better rights, but above all so that no one is a second-rate worker. Today there is a clear difference between temporary and fixed workers, many of them in law fraud or using temporaryity as fraud to keep many people from being fixed who do deserve a fixed position. What this law proposes is to clarify this situation, to convert contracts into stable ones from the first day they are signed so that the only objective of a worker and an entrepreneur is to agree and train to be better, and ultimately to ensure the stability of a decent job. Ladies and gentlemen, a country where 90% of contracts are precarious, where youth unemployment is 40% and where the average unemployment is 18% is a futureless country for many people. We believe in the future of this great country, which is Spain, but for that it is necessary to change the rules of play. Spain is no more unemployed than Germany, Denmark, France, Sweden or any other European country because we have fallen from a biblical plague or from a curse; our curse is called an obsolete, ancient framework of labour relations that does not solve the new questions of the 21st century. The employment of the twenty-first century deserves a framework of labour relations of the twenty-first century. That is why we propose in this law three fundamental reforms, in three different areas: one, the system and the type of contract; two, the portability of rights, whether of the workers and not of the job, a backpack of rights for the workers; and three, a bonus for those companies that generate stable employment, that is, reward for those who give job stability in their companies. At the first point we are talking about a basic single contract, that is, with two exceptions, replacement and training, so, de facto, the stable single contract from the first day, the training and replacement contract to end the wall and the barrier of the temporary and fixed ones. If this law is put into effect, when a worker signs a contract with a Spanish company from the first day, he will have a stable contract, and what we do is equalize the rights of the workers in this case with a single contract. As you know, today the temporary contract has twelve days a year worked off and the fixed contract has twenty days in objective and thirty-three in improper, moreover, of course, respecting the acquired rights of previous contracts with forty-five days. What does this reform of Citizens mean? Let no one have the incentive to cast and fire those who have less compensation, that the cost of compensation is not the real reason for the dismissal, which is what happened in Spain today and what happened during the crisis, especially with many people who started working in a company. Therefore, from the first day, first-class workers, from the first day twenty days a year worked and thirty-three days in wrongful dismissal and with that we end the discrimination of the vast majority of contracts. [[Applauds]] It is a necessary first reform that has already been done by other countries such as France, President Macron recently promoted this reform; it was also done by Italy, Renzi in his years of government; it was also done by Denmark, one of the least unemployed countries in the world. Therefore, flexicurity, i.e. flexibility to hire, but security for the worker to have rights... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u18	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u19	...is fundamental to the future of employment in Spain. If we continue with the obstacles and continue to look to the past, if we continue with an obsolete model, we will have the results we have had. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to end the precarious situation, we cannot do what the Socialist Party and the People's Party have done for thirty years because the results are so. I wish they were different and I wish we didn't head those rankings, but we do. The second point is that rights backpack. It is a novelty in the Spanish work system. The rights would no longer be, if this bill were passed, in the case of the national law, the job, we do not have the rights anchored in the job, but they are portable rights for the workers. This allows that in addition to compensation in case of dismissal, if someone wants to leave a company because they are not comfortable, because they want to undertake or because they want to work elsewhere, they have acquired rights, they do not leave empty hands, they have a motivation to undertake elsewhere and to work in another company. This is essential for two reasons, because it gives the worker the freedom not to be anchored to a job only because of dismissal, and above all it brings productivity and competitiveness in companies because obviously the more workers at will and the more freedom they have to be in a company or not, the more productivity there is in the company. [[Applauds]] Therefore, more freedom, more security and more rights for the worker and also for the company an anti-crisis insurance because, in the end, by accounting for and taking into account those rights, you are ensuring that in the future you will have money to pay compensation or workers' rights. We know that with the crisis many companies have had to close or have been devastated virtually in economic terms or bankrupt because they did not even have the money to pay those workers' rights. Therefore, it is good for the worker, but the company has an anti-crisis insurance that allows it to count and have an accounting forecast of these future workers' labour rights. This would be the second major reform, more contract security, more flexibility to hire, more rights for the worker, an anti-crisis insurance for the company and, finally, reward companies that do not use this type of temporary contract methods to try to cover holes or that is lower the labor cost of a fixed job. If a job in a company is fixed, unless it is depreciated for objective reasons, it has to have a fixed worker. Only really temporary jobs can have such a temporary contract in that case. In short, what we do, in the first place, is to guarantee a simpler type of contract, with less bureaucracy and more agile, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The worker, since signing, does not have to worry about re-signing a contract because from the first day it is a fixed contract. The worker has more rights because from the first day it is twenty days, not twelve during the first years of contract; backpack of rights to be able to decide whether or not to leave a company and what you want to do with your rights; insurance for the anti-crisis company and therefore more stability for the company; and finally, premium in the quotes not via bonuses, as until now, but through the stability of the average in a given economic sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law, if you allow it to be processed, and I hope you will do so for the benefit of the Spanish, and in particular the precariousness of 6.5 million workers who do not arrive at the end of the month and enter and exit the labour market, we can negotiate amendments, we can reach agreements and we can improve the labour system. If, on the contrary, you want to perpetuate the system of failure that has led us to head the list of the worst country ranking in labor relations, the country with the most unemployment and the country with the most precarious, you will again hinder a fundamental reform. There are possible majorities in this House if the Group of the European People's Party, the Socialist Group and Podemos have the will not to approve it, but to admit it to procedure. We agree that this is one of the priorities of this country, so we will at least agree to discuss it and to allow it to proceed. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that instead of looking to the past, instead of throwing the dishes at our heads, instead of dividing the Spanish into reds, blues, socialists, conservatives, populists or liberals, we try to reach agreements, which is what we need at the moment. That is why I propose that the various, the different, agree to work for the vast majority of the Spaniards, because I tell you one thing, when a gentleman is hired temporarily and throws him on a week or a month, he is not a voter of the PSOE, of Citizens or of the PP, but a Spanish citizen and a precarious worker who has no rights like the rest of the workers. Therefore, since there are no differences between our constituents when it comes to hiring and having the same rights, I propose that we agree on this. If you are willing to make reforms, count on our support; if you are willing to look to the future, count on our support; if you want to look to the past, you know what the results are: failure, unemployment and precariousness. The future can be much better with a law like this and in this case I propose to the ruling party and the other parties of the House that we sit down and talk about the first problem in Spain, because this is the first problem in Spain. They are not fireworks, it is the reality that millions of Spaniards live every day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Minister, welcome to this House. No one can deny the working reality of this country, the precariousness of new contracts and that dichotomy between fixed and temporary contracts. I do not know whether this law will be better or worse, but the Navarro People's Union will vote to take this bill into consideration so that at least we can debate, dialogue, talk, modify and make decisions, because that is the great responsibility we have in this House, above and beyond any other interest we can have, which is unemployment and precariousness, especially of the young and women of our country, which is Spain. Why are we doing this? The guiding principles of the Navarro People's Union in the field of employment have always been the creation of quality, productive and dynamic employment and this must be based on three main vectors: one, flexicurity; two, conciliation; and three, concentration. And although the measures proposed by the Citizens' Group give us some doubts - let us hope that there will be a debate and we can clarify them - we are in favour of that dialogue. One of the doubts that we have, whether or not it takes into account this proposal for a law, has to do with the Austrian backpack, whether or not there is going to be an overcost in relation to the worker or for the company. I would like this to be clarified at some point in the debate. We are in favour of improving the precarious unemployment situation in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u22	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u23	Thank you, Madam President. A week ago they called for early elections and today they talk about dialogue. At the very least, something's changing. How to eliminate the duality in the world of work in Spain between fixed and temporary workers? For Citizens it is very clear: it turns everyone by the way of the facts into temporary and precarious and the problem is over. That simple. Gentlemen of Citizens, Mr Rivera, a week ago we told Congressman Toni Singed that you were living to fuel the political conflict between Spaniards and today I repeat it to you. His top job proposal is to blame those who have a decent employment contract for the high temporality and precariousness. What you claim is that the fault of a young woman's garbage contract is her father's or her mother's, but, if you don't know it, in Spain using a temporary contract for a job that isn't actually temporary is fraud and what you're proposing with the single contract is to turn fraud into law. That's the reality. What they do not say is the main motivation for their proposed law, which is nothing other than to produce a general drop in wages, although varying its composition. When you raise the downsizing of dismissal and broaden your objective causes, even with free dismissal, what you are favoring is precisely a greater ease of dismissal. Given the chronic unemployment of the Spanish economy, a greater ease of dismissal is nothing more than being willing to accept a lower wage, because, if not, they will throw you out on the street. I'm done. You, who only see Spanish, in an act of more cheap patriotism, what you do is face each other, because you live by it. What they propose to us is to return to a labor regulation of the nineteenth century. The new was never so old or the liberal so reactionary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u24	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rivera, we have carefully read your initiative. It has a very strong first sentence in which it places all the ills of the labour market in Spain in relation to legal regulation. We disagree with that vision. The Basque Country and Catalonia, with the same labour regulations, have a rate of temporality well below the Spanish average and very close to that which exists throughout the European Union. Mr Rivera, perhaps the problems of temporality have not only to do with labour regulation, which exists, but also with the productive fabric. In Spain we may have too many micro and small enterprises, which is where some of these problems are concentrated, and we also have many sectors that are users of temporary work: construction, tourism, agriculture, etc. Without that vision, perhaps we would come to different conclusions on the measures to be taken in this area. Does this mean we don't have a temporality problem? There is a problem of temporality, and it is clear that during these years of the crisis this problem has been exacerbated by the emergence of the phenomenon of such short-term contracts. Does this problem require the implementation of a regulation that eliminates temporary contracts? Not as far as we're concerned. The only thing your proposal does in this regard is to reduce dismissal and to put forward a fiction of regulation of temporary contracts. If the main problem that an entrepreneur has is the uncertainty about the cost of dismissal, with the regulation that you propose to us the companies would fire the workers before the duration of that contract was too long. Therefore, we do not believe that his answer is the right one. That's right, we like a consideration of his initiative. We like the so-called Austrian backpack. You do not develop it in your bill, you simply mandate the Government to submit a bill. It's a shame, because they could have worked harder on the Austrian backpack. As the Socialist Party also shared the proposal for an Austrian backpack, I hope that in these two years of our parliamentary term we will be able to make progress on that. In any case, Mr Rivera, my group will not support your initiative. It contains interesting ideas, but we cannot share either the fundamental diagnosis or the specific proposal that we are being asked to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u26	Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u27	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Citizens' Group presents us with a new edition, a new twist of the old single contract that it had already assumed, and it does so with the aim - at least it mentions it - of ending duality in the labour market, with the difference between the treatment of temporary and indefinite. However, and from good to good, Mr Rivera tells us that he claims that this is not a game of fireworks and does so in line with the fact that this proposal comes exclusively from the Citizens' Group and without any consultation with the social partners. Little serious seems, but we are going to try to make a slightly deeper analysis of the issue. As I said, the initiative contains, in principle, a certain intention, which is to generalize in the regulations the recruitment for an indefinite period. For this purpose it eliminates, in principle, various temporary contracts in force today in Article 15 of the Workers' Statute, which replaces others or replaces the indefinite one, leaving here only the one relating to replacements and training contracts of fixed duration. In addition, in another crucial aspect of this amendment, the indefinite condition of the part-time contract is laid down in a new article 12.2 of the statute and, in so doing, constitutes a regulatory option that converts a single form of contract, apart from the causes behind it, in which the principle of causation is limited only to the termination of the employment contract; that is, to accreditation in a collective or objective dismissal file that is detached from the cause of the contract and, therefore, to the arbitration of one of the parties to the business, which is the business party, and without more consequence than the corresponding compensation. This compensation - which is, moreover, the consequence of the proposal - consists of an objective determination for all types of redundancies of 20 days' wages per year, except for the wrong, which it maintains with thirty-three days in contrast to the previous, of forty-five, and to this sum adds certain amendments relating to the Law on Offences and Penalties in the Social Order, and another one already more worked, relating to a kind of derivation of the Austrian backpack in the form of fund or bonuses so that they could come at the time of transfer or at the time of change of business by the workers. This new formula may, in principle, aim to increase the guarantees of workers by raising the amounts of compensation. In particular, it differs from a previous proposal in which the Citizen's Party itself understood that such compensation had to be made on a growing basis, but this is a matter on which it departs, and it also makes clear other issues that I have already pointed out are necessary and decisive in any change in labour reform, such as reaching a minimum consensus with the social partners on these measures, which are partial and limited to the management of the labour contract and the drive for collective bargaining as a valid and effective instrument for regulating the labour market. Because, apart from the discussion on the equalization of compensation to temporary and indefinite, it should be noted that compensation is only one of the various variables that constitute the situation of precariousness or, rather, that can avoid the situation of precariousness, and is not the most important of all. The key to avoiding precariousness lies precisely in an issue that does not address the Citizens' proposal; the key lies precisely in the decausalization of the contract, from which it is also paradigmatic to include both temporary and indefinite contracts in the same field. This not only omits to link the cause of the contract and its form, but also extends without limit the legal causes for the dismissals resulting from it, thereby devaluing the causality of the dismissal. What is really important to combat the precariousness of employment contracts is to identify their cause, not their form, much less the cost of dismissal. What decisively shapes the labour market balance in terms of contracting is the decision-making power of the employer to terminate contracts, not how much he has to pay to lay off. What matters is why and how you can say goodbye, and not how much it costs. The fact that the employment relationship formula is extended to a single contract, assuming, even, an increase in the cost of dismissal for the temporary workers, means leaving it to one of the parties, on the sidelines, even of the conventional will and the sidelines of the social dialogue, which could incorporate objective elements into such a distinction. Current temporary contracts may disappear, but temporary requirements will continue to exist. Thus, the legislative initiative does what it does is to turn it into a fiction that eliminates temporality in a formal way, even if the real one will continue to exist. We understand, on the contrary, that unifying temporary and indefinite contracts means reducing the effective guarantees of the latter, de facto establishing a universally causal dismissal, with 20 days of dismissal per year. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the temporary employment needs of companies must be met by contracts of a temporary nature, that is, by well-defined cases, by proper prior and subsequent control, and by effective deterrent sanctions in the event of non-compliance. To this end, the commitment of the social partners is also necessary to deal with guarantees, not with precariousness, but with contractual fraud, for which their close cooperation with the public authorities is required in the design of policies of action and their subsequent deployment. Therefore, we understand that it makes no sense to camouflage this modality in a contract of theoretically indefinite duration, which is known beforehand that it is not. Therefore, we would prefer to concentrate all efforts on achieving a procurement model in which the cases are specified and kept differentiated - that is, there will be an indefinite contract and a temporary contract - which makes dismissal difficult and strongly disincentives without them - the so-called improper, precisely because it exceeds the barrier of the case - and establishes reasonable, transparent and judicially controllable criteria for those who do, because the current mechanisms do not have them, in order to promote negotiated internal flexibility measures. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, leads us to vote against the inclusion, because, very differently from what has been said, it does not prevent flexibility, but stimulates a dismissal with cheaper formulas than it has now had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u28	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u29	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Today Citizens present us with a bill nothing more and nothing less than against job insecurity, they say. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there you must spread out, because the people of Rivera are already far superior to you in the apologia of 'one, great and free' and in savage neoliberalism and anti-workerism. It is necessary to be very cynical to present this law and title it: against job insecurity; very cynical. According to this proposal, all contracts would become indefinite contracts, thereby increasing the compensation for temporary contracts by eight days per year worked. With this measure we are told that the company would be stopped, because it would be more expensive to have temporary ones. We're going to disassemble their lies and unmask some of their true intentions. Firstly, the aim of its famous single contract is not to put an end to temporary contracts or precarious work. Job insecurity is synonymous with low wages, insecurity in employment, real duration of working hours, the type of agreement in which they are registered, etc., and on this it says nothing at all. About wages, precariousness. Their project at no time proposes the rise of the SMI according to the European Social Charter, they who are so European, which would mean a good blow against precariousness. They don't say anything about playing the SMI. Precarity. On repealing the two labour reforms so as to be able to recover the rights of all workers, as the unions say, nothing at all. Why don't you talk to them? They're not unionists, they don't have any unionists in their ranks. On recovering collective bargaining, destroyed by the labor reforms of both the PSOE and, above all, the PP, nothing at all. They don't know what collective bargaining is, nor do they name it. Nor do they want to regain collective bargaining because, as we said, Citizens are a clearly anti-union party; their ultra-liberalism is clearly anti-union. They know that workers' organisations, if they regain power in balanced collective bargaining, would act as a restraint on the free market of pure and hard work, which is what you defend. You do not care about job insecurity, that the weight of income from work in the economy with reference to gross domestic product does not stop falling, do not care. Because what matters to them is that the weight of capital income continues to rise in relation to gross domestic product as hitherto or more. Nor do they talk about eliminating the ultraactivity - I don't know if they will know what you mean - of the conventions. A rule that is known to function as a sword of Damocles for workers' representatives to have to sign an agreement down. You know what this means? Nor do they say anything about the prevalence of company agreements - nor do they bother them -, about sector agreements which have been the most important cause of the indecent devaluation of wages, of the highest wage cuts in all of Europe in recent years. They don't say anything either. What matters to them is precariousness. Nor do they care about the prevalence of corporate agreements, that monster that has created multi-service companies. Are you talking about multi-service companies? Do you know what they are? [[Applauds]] Those companies that have caused a sharp wage drop, creating job and business dumping down where they appear. Do you know what multi-service companies are? Nothing. Your goal, Mr. Rivera, is not temporary workers. In fact, he does not name another of the great scourges of temporality, false self-employed or wage earners forced to become self-employed - hundreds of thousands - nor does he name them. Those temps are no good either. He does not name them because he would go against those who finance the great Spanish and Catalan bourgeoisie, Mr Oliu, president of the Bank Sabadell, such a friend of his and one of his ranks. He does not name them because he would go against them, who love the self-employed fakes or not. They are the employers' colloquium, workers who enter and exit the labour market without any guarantees or social protection. They don't care either, they're not precarious, are they? Your aim, Mr Rivera, is not temporary workers, who will always exist in a productive system as precarious as that of the Kingdom of Spain. The problem is not the type of temporary contract, Mr Rivera, but its fraudulent use, but they do not care because their hidden objective is not the temporary ones, but to end the indefinite ones. This is your goal, to put an end to indefinite contracts. And how do they intend to end them? With this law. Mr. Rivera, what makes a person precarious, apart from wages, is the ease of being fired when it's not for the company. That's what's worrying. Undefined contracts are their goal, which is two thirds of all contracts there are; that's their goal. For this reason they fall to twenty days a year worked, instead of having to pay thirty-three days when an indefinite worker is fired. Thirteen days less for two-thirds of current contracts, and this is what they call fighting precariousness. What a shame! That's not the worst, there are still more perverse goals and is that its orange law, the one that brings us the one-for-all contract, gets absolutely free and cheaper dismissal, hardening the labor reforms of the PSOE and the PP. Look at this piece of your law, it says everything: You can fire when the jobs have become unnecessary, or as a result of changes in the company's social object, business strategy, or organized structure, or activity, or product offerings, or the composition of your customer portfolio, or as a result of the application of technological innovation. This is what their law says, that you can throw it away when you feel like it. This is your law! I mean, layoff free, legal, without any cause and, above all, cheap. That's his law. And yet not content with free and cheap dismissal in the private sector, they introduce conditions for the same dismissal in the public sector. Good. Then they tell us about the famous Austrian backpack, disrespecting the Toledo Pact because it touches Social Security, but they care about a dick. In two years we have not heard any of its representatives speak in the Toledo Pact of the Austrian backpack. That's true and, if not, look at the minutes. Austrian backpack. You take Austria as an example but it turns out that Austria is quite different from the Kingdom of Spain, quite more. Simple, in Austria only 9% of those over the age of 24 are unemployed. So it's easy to change businesses and take your backpack, which you love so much. In Austria only 2% are unemployed for a long period, five times less than in the Kingdom of Spain. That's worth his backpack, here's how hard it is to go with your backpack to find work. Please! I could continue to talk about their gifts in the form of deductions to employers regarding social security, etc., but I have run out of time. In any case, Mr Rivera, you are improving favorably. Today he no longer speaks only of Spaniards, but begins to be precarious, and today he has no longer spoken of Catalonia, which before was the main problem. You're getting better, Mr. Rivera; you're getting better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u30	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u31	President, ladies and gentlemen, it is increasingly the social sectors that are focusing their efforts on ending the precariousness imposed as a model of life. The'so can't live' is a cry in private and is increasingly expressed in the public sphere. Tens of thousands of people and a multitude of labour and social conflicts flooded the streets last month in a unitary demand full of reasons: No more precariousness. In this context, Citizens brings us here today a proposal for a law to, according to their title, eliminate job insecurity, because content is another story. This law, which fortunately will never see the light, has neither a single measure, nor a word, nor a comma to end the wage gap between women and men; to strengthen collective bargaining; to improve wages; to curb the abuse of unwanted part-time contracts - mainly women, of course -; to control the day and prevent people from doing more hours without charging them. He has nothing, not a single word, to talk about all this. Temporarily he does, but, given the content, it would have been better if they had been forgotten too. The star proposal of the law is a kind of one-off contract. They intend to make us believe that by eliminating temporary contracts, temporality disappears as by magic. We know perfectly well - and we have denounced it on many occasions - that there is a huge amount of law fraud in our country. Millions of temporary contracts are signed that are not really, but are indefinite, but there is no mechanism in the legislation to avoid it. Well, from Citizens they have a very good idea to end this duality, with this difference between temporary and indefinite contracts: to convert all contracts that are signed from now on into temporary ones. In our country, the fundamental difference between the hiring figures is not the duration of the contract, but the cost that the employer has to pay for firing us. Currently, the completion of temporary contracts is paid at 12 days per year. Objective redundancies - that is, when the company has, according to the law, objective grounds for redundancies - are paid twenty days a year with a maximum of twelve monthly instalments, and improper redundancies - that is, without reasons - thirty-three days, in a maximum of twenty-four monthly instalments. What does Citizens propose? Eliminate the contractual figure, leaving the minimum compensation in 20 days per year. They failed to explain how they are going to hire companies that need temporary work with cause, with justification. It would be good if they said so. In this law he did not touch; perhaps he touches another. A priori, it sounds good. So where's the trap? In that it will not only be the minimum compensation for any working person in this country; the bad news is that it will also be the maximum. Citizens add a perverse point - sadistic, I would say - that we should know all the working people in this country, who are almost 20 million. The literal point in question is as follows: Termination of the employment contract for objective reasons. The contract may be terminated by the justified amortisation of an individualised job where the functions have become unnecessary or redundant with those of other jobs, as a result of functional or geographical mobility, or a substantial change in working conditions, or as a result of changes in the company's social object or business strategy in the organisational structure or in its activity, in its supply of products or services, or in the composition of its portfolio of customers or suppliers, or as a result of the application of technological innovation or significant changes in the labour market. Come on, he missed putting it that, if it rains, you can also fire a worker twenty days a year. [[Applauds]] Until 2012 the working people enjoyed a protection of forty-five days a year for forty-eight months. The aggressive labour reform of the People's Party destroyed this protection and placed the wrongful dismissal in thirty-three days a year for twenty-four months. Now, with this Citizens proposal, it seeks to facilitate both the causes of objective dismissal which no employer will have to dismiss improperly and therefore in practice sets the maximum compensation at 20 days per year. In short, they want to convert all the new indefinite contracts that are signed into temporary ones. Fortunately, millions of people in this country voted, mostly working people, and set up a parliamentary arithmetic that will reject a nonsense like this. We've been putting up with the canteen for two years: Rajoy was president because you didn't want to vote for Sanchez. And now the new version is: Do you regret not voting for Sanchez two years ago? Well, not one thing or the other is true. We prevented, because this was asked by our registrants, a Rivera government, a citizens' government with Pedro Sánchez as president. We stopped it, yes, and we are also proud to have done it; and, if we went back, we would again stop it for things like this. [[Applauds]] I did not want to end without commenting on the other star-stretch concept of this law, without developing of course and copied from another country with a labor market completely different from ours: the famous Austrian backpack. Citizens intend to change the compensation for dismissal for something like a savings mini-account, an individualized hedge managed by Social Security and paid by all entrepreneurs in the country; look!, for everyone, they fire or they don't fire. Let's see, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the main function and the reason for the existence in our country of compensation for dismissal is not an economic aid when you are unemployed, which also - for that is already the unemployment benefit -; compensation for dismissal is a tool of deterrence, a protection of the worker against the arbitrary power of the employer; it is not a mechanism to live a little less badly if you are fired, it is a tool to prevent them from firing you, without forgetting their solidarity character, since all the working people we pay to the single social security fund. Individualizing benefits would be the first step towards ending the fundamental pillar of our welfare State, of our rule of law and of our democracy or of what remains of it: the public social security system. As a worker, as a son and as a grandson of working people it is a pride for me to come here and vote against such a cruel initiative with my fellow citizens as this one presents today Citizens, who only seeks to install the law of the jungle and create more inequality. They laugh or not, it's the truth because, you know, at least in the workplace, between the strong and the weak, the oppressed freedom and the free law; without equity, without arbiter and without rules, freedom is pure barbarism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u32	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we can share to a large extent the diagnosis you make of our labour market: an excessive temporality, an unfair inequality, a precariousness that impoverishes millions of workers in our country. That's right. Do you know where the problem is, Mr. Rivera? That there is no solution to these difficulties in this proposal for a law. In this proposal of law temporality is chronized, inequality deepens and with this law more impoverishes the millions of poor workers of our country. It usually happens with your propositions, Mr Rivera, which present headlines as striking as empty and false. We've already passed with you personally with the Self-Government Act. Do you remember? That law was processed, that law was passed, that law was enforced, but the autonomouss of this country are still waiting for what you promised them: easy access to financing, the end of late payment, social security contributions based on real income. [[applause]] Where's all this? Nothing. False owner, empty. Now we are promised the end of temporary contracts, the end of job instability and a backpack of new and extraordinary rights. Only none of this is true. False and empty headlines. The reality is that the citizens' bill does not end temporary contracts. It expands them to new ways! The reality is that the citizens' bill does not end the instability in the workplace because it facilitates and reduces dismissal. And the reality is that the Austrian backpack, the backpack of new and extraordinary rights, is only a headline, Mr Rivera! It appears only in the explanatory statement and in the final provision tenth. There's not a single development! What rights are we talking about? How, when, how much, who pays them, Mr. Rivera? There's nothing, nothing! [[Applauds]] Just a fake headline. You, Mr Rivera, are the leader of a fake group of proposals: false proposals, empty proposals, with false headlines or without content. And you should know that you can't fool everyone all the time. In part, Mr. Rivera. Let's see: how does the temporary hiring end? Article 1! I don't have to go to the 2nd, 3rd, 4th or 5th Article 1: temporary training contract. You keep it! They maintain the temporary formative contract, and it is the hardest and most unfair of all, the most unfair with young people, because it punishes young people to have no compensation at all when their contract ends. [[applause]] You keep it. Without leaving Article 1, you keep the temporary replacement contract, it stays! What do you mean, temporary contracts are over? Temporary replacement contract: it is maintained and extended in three ways! You expand it so much that you can sign a temporary replacement contract because of this proposed law practically to cover any job. Any job that is pending categorization, assignment of definitive coverage, may be a temporary replacement contract. They're expanding it. They're generalizing him. They maintain part-time contracts. They keep the contracts discontinuous. Where is the end of temporality? It's a lie, it's a fake, it's a fake headline! [[Applauds]] Besides, Mr. Rivera, if you don't have to put an end to temporary contracts. Temporary contracts make sense, what makes no sense is abuse. Good regulation is needed, good inspection is needed, good sanction is needed when there is an infringement, when it is necessary. But none of this is here, none of that is here. They tell us they're going to end the instability. How? Ending the difference between fixed and temporary contracts. Now all contracts are going to be fixed. [[Rumors]] But they don't tell us that those universal fixed contracts are actually fake fixed contracts. Why? Because they make it easier and cheaper to lay off. You do not say that in this proposal for a law comes an amendment to articles 51 and 52 of the Workers' Statute to facilitate dismissal in a disproportionate way. Practically any entrepreneur could fire any worker just by arguing that he is going to reduce his order portfolio or that he has suddenly come up with a change of business or a change of strategy. Any reason is good, depending on this law, to fire a worker. With the deception of 'let's end the temporality, all fixed', what they want us to paste is free and free dismissal, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens. [[Applauds]] Why do we say the layoff is reduced? Because you generalize both the target dismissal - which is paid twenty days a year worked - which makes it virtually impossible for a worker to claim improper dismissal, which is paid thirty-three days a year worked as compensation. They're down from thirty-three to twenty. Moreover, if the employer disburses from those twenty days of compensation the contributions that have been made to his famous backpack, the workers can be left with nothing. From thirty-three to twenty-two and from twenty to zero: flexible and free dismissal. [[Applauds]] If you can deduct, according to your law, contributions to custom accounts. It's in your law, at least leansela. They justify this proposal with the new and the old, the European and the non-European. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing older than free and free dismissal. There is nothing older than deregulation of labour relations to facilitate the exploitation of workers. It is so old that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party was founded a hundred and forty years ago to fight aggressions like this, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] And this group will be consistent with that legacy and will vote against it. You insist on alignments, trying to confuse, as if the PP's labour policy were equal to the Socialist Party's labour policy. No, ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you where the real alignments are. Do you know why this House has vetoed the processing of the law that raises the minimum wage or the law that pursues equal work between women and men? Do you know why these laws have been vetoed? For the coalition between right orange and right blue, that's why. [[applause]] Do you know why the law that would end the labour exploitation of subcontracted workers or recover the prevalence of the industry agreement on the company agreement is blocked in paper? Do you know why it's blocked? By the coalition between the right orange and the right blue. Of course there are alignments, and coalitions, and blood pacts!, but to favor the strongest, the most ever, in the labour market and to harm the weakest, the weakest ever, in the labour market. [[Applauds]] Of course there are difficulties in our labour market, excessive temporality, inequality, discrimination against women!, but it is not going to be resolved with the free and free dismissal of this fake proposal, it will be resolved with a new Workers' Statute, which is what the Government of dignity is promoting, with the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u34	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u35	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. As other colleagues have said here, a proposal for a law is presented by the Citizens' Group whose title is to fight against job insecurity. With that title it would be normal for us all to agree, but if we read a little the explanatory statement it turns out that you are a little pretentious, because the only thing you do is change the name. And of course, by changing the name of things, Mr Rivera, there is neither a fight against precariousness nor a halt to duality in the labour market. The reality is that this is an undercover temporary contract, because on paper they are all temporary contracts, which is fantastic for statistics - of course, you are the ones who want to govern based on surveys and based on statistics - but the truth is that if the entrepreneur wants to somehow fire, what he does is that he cushions the position and point. You say in the explanatory statement that labor reforms have virtually not corrected duality. I have to tell them we don't agree. The labor reform of 2012 is precisely the one that has allowed Spain to lead job creation in Europe; it is a reform that has been copied in Mexico, France, Italy and soon in Argentina. It is a labour reform that the Socialist Party is no longer going to repeal. Look at the credibility of this new government, which has been two legislatures saying that they were going to repeal labour reform and now it turns out that they are keeping it, but the data are obvious. [[Applauds]] This labour reform works and has created thousands of jobs in this country. It has brought employment, prosperity and wealth in the face of the ruin brought to us by the former socialist government. Welcome to the real world, socialist ladies and gentlemen. I'll give you some data. Undefined recruitment in 2017 increased twice as much as temporary: 357,900 jobs undefined as compared to 179,000 temporary jobs. Mr. Rivera, you don't take care of me, but that's not to use and throw away, as you said before. This is not to use and pull, as their arguments may be; this is real: indefinite recruitment grows twice as much as temporary recruitment in this country. [[Applauds]] And I'm going to tell you one thing: get out of so much demagogy, don't talk to me about contracts - temporary contracts, indefinite contracts - that temporary contracts are often counted; tell me about jobs, temporary jobs and indefinite jobs. As I said to you, 357,000 indefinite jobs and 179 000 temporary jobs. For each temporary job, two indefinite jobs. Don't talk to me about contracts. The largest period of indefinite, fifty-two consecutive months, Your Honor, has never happened, ever in the history of this country! And three out of four people have an indefinite contract, seven points more than before the crisis. That there are temporary contracts? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, but I also tell you one thing: contracts of less than one month do not reach 1%, 0.89%. Mr Rivera, do not do so much demagogy, you speak of the contracts of one month, of the people who are working one month, and they do not reach 1%, Your Honor. The temporary contract has to exist because of the need for our market, but it will remain causal, ladies and gentlemen of the left. Because the left and the Socialist Party broke the principle of causality in temporary recruitment and we want to reinforce the causality of fixed-term contracts, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] That's what the People's Party wants. Or do you no longer remember, Mr. Simancas, the garbage contracts of the 1980s by Felipe González? Or don't you remember Mr. Zapatero's endless concatenation of temporary contracts? Or learning contracts without any kind of social coverage, Socialist Party brand? Where was the PSOE a hundred and forty years ago to defend workers' labour rights? Where was the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr Simancas, do not complain so much: that if you do not comply with the self-government, that if I do not know what; now you are in the government, claim to the government, claim to your government now, Mr Simancas. And acknowledge, Mr Rivera, that youth unemployment has fallen 15 points since the labour reform came into force, but of course the Socialist Party has raised it to 50 %. I ask the leader of Citizens a question: Do you care anything what the employers and trade unions say? Do you care anything about social dialogue? Because in the explanatory statement of the text of the bill there is no social dialogue at all, Mr Rivera. Do you know what happened to him, Mr. Rivera? That you are out of play with the motion of censure. Yes, it's true! You've stayed out, out. [[Mr Rivera makes gestures pointing out the banks of the People's Group]] Then you have to come up here to defend something that is a bluff, something you don't believe, Mr. Rivera. You and your single contract are pure marketing, Mr. Rivera, that's reality; pure marketing. I mean, you think that with the statistics, with the surveys, with something that sounds very good and that it's very nice it's going to create employment. Well, look, neither the surveys, nor the statistics, nor the single contract create jobs. And what the Spaniards want, Mr Rivera, is employment, and quality employment, and not to be fooled with so much postureum. I will also tell you one thing: beware of dismissals, Mr Rivera; beware of dismissals. We absolutely agree that work must be done to improve the quality of employment, of course, as was the case in the social dialogue, on the quality of employment table. That was the proposal of the previous Government: to reduce to three modalities the employment contracts, which we had signed with you; to strengthen the principle of causation and to establish disincentives for companies that abused temporary recruitment, and to strengthen the actions of the Labour Inspectorate, because, Your Honor, precariousness also depends on wages, and wages are fixed in social dialogue. Mr Rivera, the reality is that we now lead job creation in Europe, we lead the reduction of unemployment in Europe, we lead the creation of youth employment, women's employment, the creation of self-employed and full-time job creation. Here are the May data, Your Honor, here is the legacy of the People's Party: almost 19 million occupied, that's the reality. That is why we in the People's Party are in favour of simplifying the number of contracts, as I have already said here and as I was signed with you, and of continuing to work in the social dialogue, but, Your Honor, from there to a single contract there is a lot of difference. Mr Rivera, I will tell you one thing: your single contract is a bluff and you know it; therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support this consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u36	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the body amending Organic Law 1/1979 of 26 September 1979, General Penitentiary, for the recognition of the status of agents of the Authority to the officials of penitentiary bodies in the exercise of their functions. [[File number 122/00219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u37	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group, an organic amendment to Organic Law 1/1979 of 26 September, General Penitentiary, for the recognition of the status of officers of the authority to officers of the prison corps in the exercise of their functions. Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u38	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to debate the acceptance of the processing of a proposal for a law of the People's Group which I have to describe as a historical proposal, because it comes to recognizing the rights as agents of the authority of prison officials, which has been a historical claim of this group and which no one has ever presented before as a proposal for a law, but as mere PNL, mere suggestions or mere questions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u39	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u40	I believe that some representatives of prison officials are accompanying us and I would like to greet them, because this bill is also largely yours. The Group of the European People's Party has met with all of them on numerous occasions, all of our Members have also met in all the provinces and we felt that it was essential to meet this historic demand because a situation of job insecurity was taking place within the prisons. With this proposal, if it does not hinder its processing and can be approved quickly, they will have greater protection from aggression. I want to say that what we are proposing is a timely amendment of the General Organic Prison Law, in particular Article 80, and five amendments are made. The first is that prison officers are recognized for all purposes as agents of authority, just like the National Police and the Civil Guard. The second is that prison officials, in an administrative file, in a judicial declaration, may be identified by their professional number and not by their name and surname. The third is that their reports will also have a presumption of veracity, as will those of the other agents. The fourth is that if they suffer serious aggression, such aggression will be treated as a criminal offence to the authority, just like the National Police and the Civil Guard. And the fifth is that, like the Civil Guard and the National Police, if they have a criminal conviction, they will be separated from the rest of the inmates, as well as from the transfers that take place from the detention centres to the court or to any medical centre; to ensure their physical security, they will be separated at all times from the rest of the inmates. The important, essential work of prison officials must be recognized. I believe that the Spanish population is not sufficiently aware of the importance of the work of prison officials, who have an essential task within what is a good functioning of the rule of law. Why? Because not only do they confine themselves to the custody of those who have been imprisoned, but they also have an essential task in the social reintegration of prisoners, and I would like to insist that this task is not sufficiently known and valued by the Spanish citizens, who do not know it. I hope that there will be no statements from some groups today that in previous speeches, when they spoke about prison officials, they have cast a doubt on all of them, as if they were people who systematically violated the rights of inmates, even they have been called torturers in this House, in the Commission; I hope that these statements will not occur because the People's Group will not tolerate it. [[Applauds]] We will defend prison officials from these attacks and insults that occur against public employees working in Spanish prisons. I insist that the People's Group appreciates very positively that this bill can come forward with the help of all groups. It is important and the People's Group is very proud that it was again the one who resolved a historic claim. It passed with the equalization of salary of the State Security Forces and Bodies and now occurs again with the recognition as agents of authority of prison officials. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party calls on all groups to work together on something so simple. This is not a modification of the General Prison Organic Law in other respects - which may need to be amended - but only to recognize prison officials as agents of the authority. We do not interrupt, we do not create too many problems, because they are waiting for it to be approved quickly because it is a further guarantee in their work. This bill is an employment guarantee for prison officials, who have a difficult task, as they deal with citizens who have been convicted and part of them - not all, but part of them - have an aggravating effect on some violence; they have not entered voluntarily and some have been sentenced to complicated, difficult penalties, they also have to deal with jihadist terrorists, people who are radicalized. They therefore deserve additional protection. It is true that this is not their only claim, but this is one of the main ones and is a historical claim. And this proposal is not presented by the People's Group since the opposition, but it was registered four months ago, when we were ruling. It's not the typical proposition you make when you're in opposition and you ask for what you're not willing to do when you're ruling. That is very typical, but no, here we are proposing something that we had already negotiated and agreed with the Ministry of the Interior and its minister, Mr Zoido. And I insist that there are more claims from the prison officials sector. In particular, the People's Group had committed itself to encouraging, forcing, and trying to secure the opening of a negotiating table to improve their working and wage conditions. The process was complicated because the General Budgets of the State were already approved or about to be approved, and also because a negotiating table is needed because there are different positions between the trade union centres, one asking for one thing or another asking for another. Petitions should be unified and a negotiation initiated, but that is the future, which will have to be undertaken. We also had a commitment to make a public offer of employment as ambitious as possible, well above 100%, because there is a need to improve the number of prison officials, increase and rejuvenate staffing. The People's Parliamentary Group will therefore continue along this path. Finally, with regard to prisons, the People's Parliamentary Group is concerned; it is concerned that something which the trade unions reject and which our group rejects, such as the transfer of prison powers to the Basque Government, seems to want to be put on the table. It also seems that the approach of ETA prisoners to the Basque Country, prisoners who do not want to cooperate in the resolution of cases, is on the table. [[Applauds]] It also wants to put on the table the approach of politicians imprisoned in Catalonia without these politicians having renounced the rebellion for which they are being investigated and for which they have been arrested and imprisoned. Prison policy must have value in itself and must be social, but there must also be a collaboration of the sentenced person so as not to offend again. If you want to reoffend, those options should not be considered. We want to remind the Socialist Parliamentary Group that the three things I have put on the table - the transfer of prison policy to the Basque Government; the rapprochement of ETA prisoners who are not repentant, who have not paid the money they owe to the victims and who also do not cooperate for the clarification of the crimes, and the rapprochement of those who are being investigated for rebellion and secession in Catalonia - do not paint well. This clearly seems to be the payment of a motion of censure. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I hope that I am wrong and that it is not the payment of support for a motion of censure. It would be very serious not only that a government programme has not been presented, but that the hidden negotiations of the Socialist Party, Mr Sánchez, to reach the presidency of the government are not made clear to us. It would be very serious and I hope I'm wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Consideration is needed to amend article 80 of Organic Law 1/1979 in order to ensure that prison officials are finally recognized as agents of authority in the exercise of their functions and to equate them with what is currently regulated for members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. This amendment will lead to an improvement in the protection of workers who are highly exposed to incidents and attacks, many of them with injuries, as evidenced by the statistics of recent years, which makes it inexcusable to intervene in favour of these public employees in order to correct the lack of security in prisons. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to refer to the case of the prison in Asturias and its paradigmatic therapeutic and educational unit in Villabona, with its drug-free modules. Many Asturians find it inexplicable that what since 1994 was a successful model in the implementation of the constitutional mandate for re-education and social reintegration has been transformed into a gradual dismantling of the UTE - therapeutic and educational unit - which has resulted in an increase in the drug inside the prison, accompanied by a patent and growing dismotivation of officials that hides the raw reality of the aggressions, attacks, threats and coercion that suffer and also that of the fights between inmates. This is why I would like to reiterate that if, for legal purposes and for the sake of job stimulation, it is important for all prison officials to be recognized as agents of authority, it is equally important to recover, in the specific case of the prison in Asturias, the therapies that, through the UTE, with their innovative and alternative work, conceived and implemented by public employees, improved the security while helping hundreds of people to avoid prison subculture, to get out of the circle of crime and drugs and, ultimately, to achieve their family and social integration. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u43	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u44	Pick it up on. Thank you very much, Madam President. It had long been clear to me that a prison policy based on human rights was impossible with the People's Party, and after listening today to the spokesman for the People's Group, I reaffirm my convictions. In any case, and on this particular subject, we have already said it in the Commission and I repeat it today: the existence of the law on the gag and the requirement for the transfer of jurisdiction from prisons are the two main reasons for voting today rather than not. First, the law violates the most basic rights and freedoms, and extending the recognition of officers of authority to prison officials means extending impunity to this group in the actions it offers to police forces. It is a law that establishes a true police state and that we cannot allow to extend to prison officials. [[Rumors]] In the face of any case of resistance, disobedience, contempt...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u45	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u46	He said that in any such case, the arrested person would face serious difficulties in exercising his right to defence in the face of a possible arbitrary action by the official. If this law is not repealed, it will only increase the defencelessness of imprisoned persons by giving the official the principle of presumption of truthfulness, whereby in the case of persons with public authority it is presumed that their testimony is true and this prevails over the person who does not enjoy it, that is, the persons arrested. Secondly, with regard to those prison powers which the People's Party does not want in any way for the Basque Government and which we reiterate and call for both for the Basque Autonomous Community and for Nafarroa, they should be the ones to decide, after a serious and collective study, what are the needs in infrastructure, in programmes, in personnel, and to implement a prison policy in line with the reality that we live in and do not want to see the People's Party. Let the targets be set. That is why we believe that those issues that have to do with the cataloguing of civil servants should also be considered within that framework. This study will have to take into account how to ensure adequate working conditions for staff members, who are in many cases the main reason for prison incidents, as well as the adequacy of prison policy, which, for example, does not provide adequate conditions for the treatment of mental illnesses, which are also often the source of many attacks. And finally, I will refer to the CPT report, which, after visiting several prisons, raises the need for changes in the treatment of prisoners. The CPT has already expressed deep concern about the seriousness of the events that it has been aware of during its above-mentioned visits, what would it be if they also had a higher level of impunity. So, first of all, before offering more impunity to the civil servant, all the above-mentioned should be done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u47	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't expect to start like I'm going to. I want to say to the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group that what we want with political prisoners is to comply with the law, which says that if there is no final sentence, the prisoners must be close, near their home. I'll remember from here Jordi Cuixart, who was locked up with a six-month-old boy and now he's a year old. This child has gone over 30,000 kilometers to see his father every weekend. Does that sound decent to you? And in the meantime the lords of Blanquerna were taken away from the penalty, among other arguments saying that they had children in charge of them and that, therefore, they could cause them a trauma. [[Applauds]] This six-month-old boy has had to make 30,000 miles. Do you think it's normal? Anyway, that's not what we came here to talk about today. It seems very good to us that prison staff are given authority. The definition of an official with authority is that of one who eventually has to use compulsion over persons. This defines exactly one of the functions of prison staff. It is not just a philosophical question - some spokesman has said it - but it means, no more or less, that when a judge quotes them in a case he will be obliged to quote them by the number, while now you can quote them by the name, with the danger that this entails. Moreover, if they are assaulted, in many circumstances it would be lacking, while in this case it will always be a crime. Only for these reasons is it justified to be granted the status of authority. We were going to vote in favour, but given the galgesque entry of the PP spokesman, for reasons simply of formal protest we are going to abstain. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u50	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the consideration of a proposal to amend article 80 of the Prison Act to recognize the status of officers of the authority of prison officials and thus to obtain a number of consequences in favour of them and also in favour of the prison system. The initiative is intended to strengthen the authority of officials and better protect them from attacks that endanger their physical integrity, both preventively and in criminal response. It is surprising that it is the People's Parliamentary Group that is presenting this proposal to us, because almost a year ago it was telling us that what we are now proposing was not so much needed as it was already achieved, through a protocol of protection against attacks on officials. We are also surprised that 2200 attacks have been reported in the last six years and that it is essential - they say - to establish effective initiatives such as that of this proposed law for the prevention of this high number of attacks, when Mr. Yuste, Secretary-General of Prison Institutions, told us in September last year that the climate of conflict that is being moved, the existence of an increase in attacks on prison staff is not sympathized with reality, in which there is a gradual decrease in the attacks, which have gone from 630 to 267 in 2009, in front - he told us - of those that occur in prison settings in nearby countries, with a much higher number, and quoted France, in 2015, with 4122 and the English prisons in 2016, with 6430 attacks, of which 461 were serious. These positive assessments were, by the way, shared by the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group in the Committee on the Interior, far from the alarmism that now distills the explanatory statement of the proposed law that we are debating. As for the content of the reform before us, we have some questions or considerations, which we now list. With regard to the status of officers of the authority that he wants to grant to prison officers for the purpose of greater protection in the event of being assaulted by prisoners, I would point out that, in their current status as officials, they already have that protection that he now seems to want, in vain, to be improved. Article 550 of the Criminal Code stipulates that the passive subjective scope of the type of criminal offence is that of officials, authorities and agents of the authority, although it is certainly not the same with the crime of resistance or disobedience, which can only be dealt with by the authority or its agents in the exercise of their functions, as provided for in 556 of the Criminal Code. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the attribution of the status of officers of the authority to prison officers is criminal in nature, since it extends the criminal protection of certain taxable persons and, thus, extends the application of criminal rules, since unlike the concepts of authority and official - which, for criminal purposes, are defined by article 24 of the Criminal Code, the concept of agent of the authority is not precisely defined in the Criminal Code, and is no longer for the sake of this reform an autonomous concept for the criminal judge, imposing it, in accordance with the recent constitutional sentence 50/2018 of 10 May. As regards the presumption of veracity of reports issued by prison officials in their capacity as agents of the authority over the facts known to them in the same terms as other agents bearing the same condition, we must point out that this presumption of veracity must be linked to Article 77 of the Law on Common Administrative Procedure on the means of proof, which in paragraph 5 states that the documents formalised by officials who are recognised as authority and in which, in compliance with the relevant legal requirements, facts established by them are collected, shall prove them unless they prove otherwise. This means, according to the Council of State and abundant jurisprudence, that this provision does not overshadow the constitutional presumption of innocence, but that the facts complained of must be supported by relevant data, so that, because of the lack of credibility of a complaint for whatever reasons, it will not support a sanction, as stated by the Constitutional Court in its judgment 169/1998 when it says that, first, the right of presumption of innocence implies that the criminal or administrative sanction is based on acts or evidence of charge or incriminating the alleged conduct. Secondly, that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without anyone being obliged to prove his innocence. Thirdly, any insufficiency in the results of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the sanctioning body, must be translated into an acquittal. Constitutional judgement 76/1990, which was repeated in 14/1997. This does not mean, in fact, that the reports enjoy an absolute preference for proof that makes the formation of judicial conviction about the truth of the facts unnecessary. In court proceedings incorporated in the sanctioning file are of no greater relevance than the other means of evidence admitted in law and, therefore, do not necessarily have to prevail in the face of other evidence leading to different conclusions. Finally, with regard to the prerogative that is introduced with regard to the possibility for prison officers in the performance of their duties and in administrative and judicial procedures to identify their status by their professional registration number, I would like to point out that this can only be the case when they act in their capacity or as witnesses or experts, but not when they are charged in oral proceedings, as stated in the Criminal Prosecution Act. Without prejudice to the above and despite what has been heard by certain speakers, we announce that we will vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u51	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u52	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Our sense of vote to take into consideration the proposal for an organic law amending Organic Law 1/1979 of 26 September, General Penitentiary, for the recognition of the status of officers of the authority to officers of prison bodies in the exercise of their functions, will be abstaining, and all for several reasons. The first is that we are open to considering the possibility of empowering prison officers in the exercise of their functions and to study and propose limitations to that status, insofar as the reinsertion function has never been the flag of the proposing group. On the other hand, we do not share in any way the explanatory statement proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group as an argument to justify this amendment. In this sense, we understand that the amendment has a high police character that we do not share, as our Catalan prison model is totally opposite. Of course, we will also have this debate in the Catalan Parliament, since Catalonia has transferred powers in the area of prison institutions. As you will know, the issue of the presumption of veracity is a debate which is still in the open case law, not being unanimous in the judgments given in cases of attacks on certain public officials. In addition, officials with this status as agents of the authority have a presumption of administrative truthfulness, which is not the same as a presumption of criminal truthfulness, which means that the testimony of an officer of the authority who is aware of a criminal wrongful act does not have a presumption of criminal truthfulness; he will simply appear at the oral trial as a direct or reference witness. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, is this the only issue that you are going to address in relation to prison officers, when you know perfectly well what the real problems this group has been demanding for a long time? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, for us this amendment proposal is nothing more than a piece of legislation. Perhaps we should give prison officials the character of agents of the authority - which will be seen if this consideration succeeds - but we also call for this debate to take place within the framework of ensuring absolute control over the protection of human and fundamental rights, by establishing other security or protection measures or mechanisms. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u53	Silence, please; silence. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u54	Therefore, if we accept that this legislative amendment is taken into account, we will inform you that we will be submitting amendments along the lines set out above. Finally, and by allusions, I must say that the Prison Act establishes the fundamental right to bring prisoners closer to their place of residence. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a right. We cannot determine that jurisdiction is totally arbitrary, which is what has been implied by your comment. Our political prisoners are in pre-trial detention without conviction and are more than 500 kilometres from their homes, while Mr Urdangarín, sentenced to more than five years in prison, has been able to choose a prison. [[Applauds]] Approaching is a right that regulates the Prison Law, and the excuse that the prisoner has to be available to the judge when he calls him, please, in the 21st century! I have personally attended video conferencing with Barcelona since the Madrid courts. Ladies and gentlemen, please prevent a prisoner from approaching in the 21st century because he must be available to the judge, taking into account the technologies at our disposal, it is not necessary and therefore an excuse. From Esquerra Republicana we claim and claim the presumption of innocence as a fundamental right. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u55	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u56	Thank you, President. Mr Martín-Toledano, gentlemen of the PP, you have created a problem in prison institutions with prison officials for six years, officials whom I greet from here. You have created a problem for six years, you have not wanted to solve it, and you are now coming to us with a timely amendment of the General Prison Law that we discussed in the proposal of the Citizens' Group on June 28, 2017 in the Internal Affairs Commission. Do you want me to tell you what your words were, Mr. Martin-Toledano? You said there was no need to recognize prison officials as agents of authority. I quote textually - I open quotes -: 'You cannot ask for the function of authority to be recognized when it is already recognized'. You said that in reference to Article 3.2 of the specific protocol to act against aggression; protocol - and it was necessary that the entire Interior Commission should first position itself in favour of requiring your Government to do that protocol - which they had been doing without doing and without responding to the claims of prison officials for six years, six years, Mr Martín-Toledano!Thanks to this pressure, the protocol was removed. You told me that was already in Article 3.2 of the protocol. Well, it looks like he was gone today. What you said in June today is something else. The reality is that the problem that prison officials have, which you have aggravated over the past six years because you have not paid attention to them, is currently on fire to officials with every reason. You have done nothing, you have done nothing, neither the lords of the People's Party nor the lords of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] It is a 1979 law - the first organic law passed in this House - that has not been amended since then. Has the prison really not changed anything since 1979? Hasn't anything changed in all these years? You haven't done anything this whole time. I would like to remind the Socialist Party gentlemen - Mrs Cantera, I am sure you remember it perfectly, although I know that it does not pay me much attention - that you voted against in that non-law proposal, voted against in the non-law proposal to grant exactly what the People's Party gentlemen are calling for today. I hope you'll take that into consideration this time. Yeah, don't laugh. You voted against this recognition and you will have to explain it. Then many photos have been taken with all prison officials, but at that time he voted against, as always, the Socialist Party members today of a powerless government, supporting a powerless government. Since 1979, they have not wanted to know anything about the organic law that was carried out with greater consensus. You, gentlemen of the PP, had a draft bill to amend the General Penitentiary Law, but you have not agreed with any group. I hope the Socialist Party gentlemen will. The minister was here before, but he's gone. I would have liked to tell Mr. Grande-Marlaska that he will have our support if he really wants to amend the General Prison Law; he will have our support if he really wants to talk about consensus when it comes to amending this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do we not know very well who we have to pay attention to, to Mrs Cantera who said that there was no need to do this? I hope that the next speaker on this rostrum will say that they do indeed want to approve and recognize this for prison officials. [[The Lord]] We do not know whether we have to listen to that Socialist Party which in this rostrum said that if they made a motion of censure to the previous government it would soon call elections or we have to listen to the socialist government that on Monday says no, that we must now exhaust the legislature. We don't know who we have to listen to. [[Applauds]] You talk about this, but there are so many more problems in prisons, and I'm going to give you an example. I would like the Socialist Party gentlemen to really take care of this. What about the transfers of prison health to the National Health System? The law that approved these transfers is Law 16/2003. Fifteen years have passed since that law said that in eighteen months prison health should be transferred to the National Health System and nothing has been done, nothing has been done in fifteen years, neither they nor you. Because you are not interested in doing anything, you are not interested in doing anything for the citizens or for the officials of this country; you are only interested in seeing who rules, who has the support, with whom dark covenants are made, and once you arrive at the government you do nothing. They haven't done anything. I repeat: 15 years have passed and prison health has not been transferred. Do you know how many places in the RPT of prisons doctors have? 500 seats. Do you know how many are busy right now? 300 seats, 300 seats of 500, almost half, Socialist Party gentlemen. But do you know the most serious thing? In five years 80% of these 300 doctors will retire. Eighty per cent of the 300 remaining doctors in prison institutions will retire in five years. We won't have doctors in the prisons. Last December, December 2017, Ocaña prison was 23 days without a doctor, 23 days! I think that in December you still ruled, Mr. Martin-Toledano, didn't you? Or didn't you rule at the time? In December they did not rule because I have a feeling that you, really, have never ruled. [[Applauds]] They've never ruled. You have a chance to do this in the next interterritorial council; talk about it. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is fair for prison officials to have this rightful claim and to be recognized as agents of authority, of course, because when dealing with inmates' relatives in the communication departments, prison officials have to control these relatives and have problems with them. And of course they have problems when they make drug seizures!, and of course they have problems with them when they have attacks!, and of course they have problems when they have to declare with their name and surnames in court proceedings! Ladies and gentlemen, this is so necessary that it is inexplicable that nothing has really been done since 1979. We have an opportunity at this time to recognize something that has not been done unfairly in the past thirty-nine years. I hope from all of you that you really have the sense of responsibility to give prison officials the treatment they deserve because they are working for the safety of all Spaniards. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u58	Pick up where we are. Good afternoon. Mr. Martin-Toledano, get up here and talk about the historic moment. Lower the pretensions a little bit. Let's see where this comes from and where we're going. In principle, because not even the initiative was yours, has already said Mr Gutierrez, of Citizens, how at a certain time you have to be brought out of your ears from the Commission of the Interior to make a specific protocol of aggressions in prisons, which you deny because there was already a general in the General Administration of the State and they said that for what. And from there, on questions from this Member and others, you systematically refuse to admit that there is a problem of assault in prison, you minimize the data and you are saying that this is going to be better and that absolutely nothing happens. And then, when on June 28, 2017 effectively Citizens, in the Interior Commission, makes a non-law proposal that is substantially similar to what you are presenting now, in form and in substance, you say: well, this is for what?, it's unnecessary, don't come with this. Then they invoke paragraph 3.2 of the protocol, which already recognizes the status of authority and, indeed, as Mr Gutiérrez has said, you literally say that you cannot ask for the function of authority to be recognized when it is already recognized. By the way, we, United We can, in that case, put in an amendment, which was rejected by Mr Gutiérrez, because we considered that the only positive thing about the citizens' proposal was to amend the Criminal Prosecution Act for the purpose of identifying officials by number and not by name and surname. And that amendment was rejected and you said that for what, that this was already at a certain time, clear and meridian, and that there was no need of any of the ways. You also said that the separation of inmates was already in this protocol, as was the case with the State Security Forces and Bodies, and you referred - and I refer you to the Journal of Sessions of the Internal Commission of 28 June - to the commitment to reform the General Organic Prison Law that had been announced several times by former Minister Zoido, so that, among other equally historical things - I suppose - it would be reformed and would include this concept of authority that you at that time were so supportive of. As a colophon, you said that before talking about this there were also a number of concrete measures, not only in the punitive field, that could help prevent these attacks. What you have not told is this sudden change of opinion that you have had saying: well, of all this, there does not have to be a general change of the General Prison Organic Law, nor the aggressions that we said were so few now are many and this is tremendously necessary to do so here and now, and it is also historical and it is a claim of all officials. You have suddenly seen the light; I do not know if that has anything to do with you, instead of in the government, being in opposition and also wanting to compete with the lords of Citizens on this issue and you need to do a little bit of populism with these people to whom you have alluded and are in the rostrum. It is never wrong to comment and make this change of opinion; a change that we and we are not going to make. We and we voted against it in the Committee on the Interior, even admitting that certain rules could be improved, as I have already mentioned, and we stand by that criterion, and we do so for clear and obvious reasons. The first is that prison officials have recognized the status of public officials and officials of the authority as long as the director of the prison is authority in himself and executes orders for the maintenance of the order and security of the centers and also the treatment, let us not be mistaken, within the prisons. What happens is that this has a number of consequences in criminal matters, because, as Mr Legarda has reminded us with his usual legal fine, article 550 of the Criminal Code is protecting with the same penalty the official of the authority and the public officials, whose definition is in article 24, which makes it absolutely harmless for criminal purposes to recognize this situation, because it is already fully recognized. Moreover, this has been the case law in all cases in which it has had to pronounce itself. It is therefore already protected and the principle of general prevention is also complied with. If you tell me that people deprived of their liberty do not know that assaulting an official is literally - and here I am using prison slang - eating a brown, it is that you do not know the reality of Spanish prisons, which would already be particularly worrying. On the other hand, the separation of prisoners from prison officials who have committed an offence and therefore have to serve their sentence has already been given. In fact, they are classified as FIES, files of inmates of special follow-up; they are followed up and given special attention in the prevention of possible aggressions. In this case too, therefore, the amendment you are seeking is absolutely harmless. Finally, there is also article 75 of the Prison Rules, which speaks of regional limitations and which also allows in such cases security measures to be applied at the request of any person deprived of liberty who is threatened with his or her safety or physical integrity. In conclusion, it is a futile effort, and since every futile effort leads to melancholy, I think we will have to devote ourselves to making efforts that are really useful. Indeed, within Mr Yuste's broad trajectory, as Secretary-General of Prison Institutions, he did nothing, and nothing is that we have a population of officials who are excessively old and without a replacement rate; that there has been no collective negotiation in any way for these people to see their labour rights recognized; that absolutely nothing has been done with prison health; that we have a serious mental health problem within prisons - that we have tried to repeat over and over again and will continue to do so - that it is not treated and that it can contribute to aggression in prisons; and that you have not in any case - I do not know why - any principle of restorative justice or dialogue or mediation within prisons. And, indeed, to solve this issue from a strictly punitive point of view, raising only a special presumption of veracity of what the official says, is not to know that this is already being applied de facto in prisons, and anyone who defends persons deprived of liberty in prison disciplinary files - who have a special regulation, not only what Mr. Legarda has commented on the Law of Administrative Procedure - knows how difficult it is to undo a proof of office of a part of an official directly in the interpretation of certain facts. In short, it is absurd, harmless, it does not go to the reason for the problem and, of course, it serves nothing more than to make demagogy and does not solve any of the problems we have within prisons. Another policy focused on human rights is needed, but this may be explained another day, because the absurd mix you have made in terms of the location of prisoners, in terms of recognition or non-recognition of their responsibilities, in terms of organizations, in terms of prevention and in terms of punishment, is really to take a manual and look at some little things and learn them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u60	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Toledo, we're going to be serious; we're going to be serious. You didn't even get it right on the date of registration of your proposal, and from there it's been an absolute misconception what you've come to say here. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if we are going to have a serious debate on prison institutions, we are going to have it and we are going to discuss this which you present in depth. I want to remind you of the date, because sometimes the date is important, it is not only important for wedding anniversaries, but also for other issues. When you registered this proposal, there was a concentration on Alcalá Street, right next door, in front of Prison Institutions, of the prison officials' unions protesting against their management - their management - at the head of Prison Institutions, and that day you think nothing but to present this, this is a patch, a patch that comes precisely to disregard your commitment, a black-to-white compromise in that protocol - I will now talk to you about that protocol, Mr Gutierrez -. In that protocol at the end of section 3.2 specifically you collect that you are going to bring here a reform of the General Prison Organic Law, and you have not brought it, but you have brought a patch to wash your face, the bad face you have had for six years with prison officials. That's the reality. So, if you want to be serious, let's be serious. And, Mr Gutiérrez, I think you should review what you have done in the Committee on the Interior with regard to all these proposals. You look at what you were trying to do with that non-law proposal, you look at exactly the figure you were proposing, and you look at the figure that comes in the People's Party's bill, and you will realize that it has nothing to do with it, and maybe it explains why the Socialist Party voted against your proposal and why today it is going to change the vote. And I'm going to tell you more, when you guys are working on that protocol, I have to tell you to review what amendment the Socialist Party tabled and what amendment was voted on at the end, because perhaps what was voted on at the end was the Socialist Party's proposal and not yours. [[Applauds]] Therefore, please review, Mr Gutiérrez, what is being done in the Committee on the Interior. I do not know, Mr Toledo, whether you, when you were meeting with prison officials, stood up in the middle of the meeting, because perhaps you picked up this claim, but you did not pick up so many others that over six years the prison officials have been denouncing. You have received prison officials as we have received them - I am sure - absolutely all Members of this House, because all Members of this House are doing our job, not just you. I will tell you that we have collected absolutely all the proposals, and from all the proposals we have put forward non-legislative proposals in the Internal Affairs Committee, which not all groups can say. And I will tell you more, when you draw up this proposal, it responds to pure and harsh political opportunism. You have had the opportunity to correct this situation for six years. In six years you have done absolutely nothing and were also mandated by the Committee on the Interior to carry out certain reforms in the area of prison institutions that you have not done. So don't come and wash your face saying that for six years you have been doing wonderfully well at the head of penitentiary institutions because I'm going to tell you something that you may not know and that is that I think the best news that the officials of penitentiary institutions have received has been Mr. Yuste's cessation as secretary general, and that you must take into account to assess how his management has been. [[Applauds]] If it were only the status of agents of authority, the Socialist Party would have no problem in supporting this, absolutely none, because it is already reflected in three articles of the Criminal Code, 550, 24 and 24.2. It is also reflected in that regulation, which exists against aggression, and there is case law that speaks about this. But we have an important doubt and it is that principle of veracity that gives some reports that prison officials make. And I'm going to tell you why it creates doubt, because maybe we're dressing one saint to undress another, that is, maybe we're proposing that what's being done is that some people who are serving a deprivation of liberty be denied their rights at this very point. This doubt generates us and this party wants to resolve it by talking and dialogue, which is why we came here, to talk, to dialogue and to agree, which you have not done, even when you did not have a majority in this Parliament. That is why we are going to accept this proposal for a law that you propose, because we believe that it is better and we believe that it can contribute more than you propose with it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u62	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the proposal of a state pact among all political forces in defense of the unity of Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a great nation that fulfils its forty years of constitutional democracy. We have forged a stable and consolidated democracy among all of us, a democracy that guarantees a solid framework of fundamental rights and public freedoms. We are a great European nation, a country that is poignant and open to the world, with problems, yes, with problems, but a great nation that must continue to move towards greater spaces of freedom and equal opportunities. We have a territorial problem, a territorial problem for those who are not satisfied with the current state of affairs. It is true that those who are dissatisfied cannot be forgotten, but it is no less true that those who are dissatisfied must not be forgotten either. They cannot forget who we value and what we have achieved since the constitutional pact until now. The constituents, ladies and gentlemen, were able to reach an agreement to establish a framework of coexistence in which we would all share. They did, moreover, without hidden intentions. In the words of Javier Arzalluz, looking for an integrative, non-disaggregating solution capable of projecting a much more stable future. It was not a point of departure, but a point of encounter and a definitive solution to the problem of the territorial organization of Spain, a solution that did not imply the recognition of privileges or favours, but the recognition of different personalities. The spokesman for Convergence and Union at the time said: Asking for recognition of our personality is not asking for a favor. We no longer know how to explain or convince public opinion of this radical national affirmation, in the sense of what we are and want to remain what we are, which is perfectly compatible with an attitude of collaboration, of genuine will to understand and of genuine will to integrate into the Spanish whole. I close quotes. [[Applauds]] The Constitution is not meant to confront anyone, but to integrate everyone. As Jordi Solé Tura pointed out, article 2 of the Constitution not only defines Spain, but also the political ceiling from which it cannot be passed and this political ceiling is that it is an indissolubly united nation, an indivisible common homeland, but at the same time recognizes that Spain has always been plural and recognizes that plurality, because if it does not, the unity of our country would be denied. Unity, recognition of plurality and attribution to the Spanish people as a whole of national sovereignty. These are the foundations of the constitutional commitment that the constituents signed. The Constitution recognizes Spain as a nation unequivocally and by ascribing to the Spanish people as a whole national sovereignty excludes any possibility of unilateral decisions of self-determination, because that is a decision that corresponds to each and every Spaniard without exclusion. Alongside this, he recognizes the principle of self-identification of those differential facts with awareness of his own infallible personality, in the words of Miguel Herrero. That was our pact, ladies and gentlemen; that was our agreement to share this public space in which we live. There will be some who can say that the constitutional agreement was the fruit of fear and will not lack reason, but it was not a pact imposed by the threat of some and accepted by the fear of others, but the pact by the shared fear of a possible civil confrontation that reproduced the most painful pages of our history. As our admired Adolfo Suárez said, one could only be afraid of fear itself, but he was not afraid because the future of the agreement and the pact among all was promising. [[Applauds]] Can we change those principles that underpin the agreement? Of course I do. Any of us can defend the ideas we want within the framework of coexistence that we have given ourselves and if a majority of Spaniards want to do so, they could do so. We defend the principles on which our territorial structure was articulated in the Constitution, because Spain that emerged from these bases has been a free, strong, solidarity and living expression. It's been a better Spain. We have come a long way and, if we are all sincere in answering where we were and where we are today, the answer, ladies and gentlemen, can only be that we are much better. Which country left us who from different political positions, present today also in this House, agreed on a territorial solution in the Constitution? And which one do we want to leave to our children, to future generations? What explanation will we give you if, precisely at the moment when there are higher doses of self-government, greater recognition of singularities, we break the pact, change it, separate ourselves? Precisely now that we are facing global challenges, now that we are among the great economic powers of the world, right now that we have an admirable and admirable welfare state, right now that we are recognized for our solidarity, right now that we have a more plural and diverse and tolerant society of the world, do we precisely now, ladies and gentlemen, separate? It wouldn't make sense to break that pact. That is why we have presented this initiative and called for its support. We don't want the flags to change, we could say symbolically. We don't want my country's flags changed. I don't want to be taken away from me, because it's mine, too. I don't want them to take away my ikurriña, because it's also mine; as is the extremian white, green and black or the Andalusian white and green. I do not want any of the flags taken from the different territories of Spain, because they are all simply Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Floriano. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Salvador Armendáriz is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Floriano, I want to thank you for your initiative. Let me begin this very small speech with a question to the House. Why is unity a good or a positive value for Europeans, for ourselves who participate in the construction of a project called the European Union and, instead, are unable to appeal to that unity when we speak of ourselves and speak among the different peoples of Spain? Mr Floriano, for us unity is a good and a positive value. It is also an instrument and an objective of all. We have no complex to defend national sovereignty or the 1978 Constitution, as we also defend the singularities of each of their communities and of each people, starting with the historical political personality of Navarre, threatened for decades by the pressure of Basque nationalist terrorism. Nor do we have it to defend the advisability of reforming the Constitution - why not? - to eliminate historical tolls and norms whose validity should fall. Mr Floriano, I wish we could renew a political pact based on harmony that has allowed us to live the best forty years of our political history, thanks to respect and loyalty to the differences that unite us and also to the promotion of what someone has called daily moral virtues, such as forgiveness, respect, forgetfulness, tolerance, justice or solidarity. The truth is that if we don't agree on a common life project, there isn't much more to talk about or say. We know that secessionism wants to destroy unity and we know that they take advantage of the political disunity of the constitutionalists and the partisan or personal convenience when parliamentary arithmetic makes them decision makers, as now. In any case, I remember one of the founders of UPN when he described a party as cross-cutting as mine with a phrase that said: We are not the same, but we want the same. Therefore, if we do not even know many times what we can aspire to together, if we are not able to reach agreement on what affects us more intensely than Spanish, we will hardly be able to defend our nation against those who openly work for its demolition. For our vote that doesn't stay. I think I've listened to one of the colleagues who might come to an agreement. I wish it were. I will congratulate you and vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u67	Pick it up on. For they do not count on us, nor did they count on in their day to strengthen the 1978 regime built on the foundations of Francoism and which, with the approval of the oligarchy and the army, established an anti-democratic structure based on the denial of the status of Euskal Herria nation and the rights that as such assist us. Neither did we then, nor will we do so now that the regime is going through a deep crisis and that, unable to adapt to acceptable democratic standards and to convince through seduction, they continue to show a totalitarian attitude. Faced with this, Basque society expresses it with clarity, wants to decide freely its future and not to be able to do so leads it to think that in the current context the will of some is worth more than that of others, and that is not democratic. Some 175 000 people went out in demand of democracy, of channels to make use of their rights, asking politicians or institutions to act to achieve this. In the face of your authoritarianism, citizens are empowered, willing, able to face all the challenges presented to them and to make decisions. We see it on March 8, we see it weekly in the concentration of pensioners, we saw it in the majority demand for justice for the youth of Altsasu last Saturday in Iruña. The majority of Basque citizens are committed to doing things differently, to actively participating in it. It is not just a debate about whether or not independence is, it is an issue that encompasses a much broader agenda to which closed attitudes, anchored in not changing anything, have no room. In Euskal Herria a new time of coexistence, sovereignty and decision is opening up to build, as Gure Esku Dago's song says, a future of happy people in a free people. Finally, I would like to refer to the Citizens' amendment, which wants us out of Congress. I will tell you very clearly, they have it very easily, let us make our way, that our desire is to leave this Congress and leave Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u68	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again the PP comes in charge of defending the unity of Spain, but they forget a few articles of that sacrosanct Constitution. Article 14, the Spaniards are equal before the law, but Urdangarin has the right to a wing, to a prison module for him alone. Article 16, no confession shall have a state character, but the Catholic Church does not pay tax on property, does not pay tax on corporations, inheritances, or donations. Article 20, proclaims the freedom of creation and guarantees the plurality of the media; Valtonyc, Arco exhibition, censored covers, control and manipulation of Spanish Radiotelevision. Article 27, the right to public and free education; they are also forgotten. Article 40, redistribution of income; they were forgotten when they approved the tax amnesty. Article 47: Right to decent housing; they are forgotten. Article 50, adequacy and updating of pensions; they are forgotten. Article 119, free justice; they are also forgotten. And if we go to territorial differences, they also fail and they are forgotten the sacrosanct Constitution. Article 156, the Autonomous Communities shall enjoy financial autonomy; they recognize the under-financing of the Valencia Country, but they do absolutely nothing to correct such discrimination. For you the Constitution only serves to compete with Citizens to see who is more Spanish, and the unity of Spain only serves you to be able to cover with your flag, with the Spanish flag, your incompetence and your corruption. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Floriano, as you will understand very well, we owe it to our constituents, and since you raise the debate, it is good to remember that in Catalonia there are 2.2 million citizens who defend the right to self-determination, a much broader majority who defend the right to decide and that the political solution does not go through the evocation - I would say almost melancholic - of the 1978 pact - you have said to agree on a territorial solution. I think it's a lot of people who see it and, if you have to remember it this afternoon, that territorial solution broke; I'll be more precise, you broke it. You broke it from the moment the internal constitution of Catalonia, its status voted for by the citizenry, was markedly and deeply cut by the Constitutional Court. The 1978 pact is therefore broken. In politics there is no right not to dialogue. President Rajoy had his last contact with the president-elect of the Generalitat de Catalunya in April 2016 and he did not wish to have the necessary political dialogue to find a political solution. You are the great responsible, the first responsible, and so you will understand why it was very easy to move on to the People's Party government. We hope that there will soon be a dialogue without conditions, without limits, between the President of the Government of Spain, President Sánchez, and the President of the Generalitat, President Torra. Mr. President, I'm finishing up. The People's Alliance, a predecessor of the People's Party, maintained the cancellation of Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution until 1987 in its programme. With this I mean that you usually arrive a little late to see things and to update the frameworks of coexistence. I hope that you will come out of your congress successfully, with a new political vision that understands that you cannot embrace the past, because the past has already passed and the right to self-determination and the objective of a state of your own by Catalonia is a majority demand of the citizens of Catalonia that requires a political and legal solution, which will surely be achieved in the medium term. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of recalling Article 2 of the Constitution, of proclaiming once again the unity of Spain, its unbreakable and indivisible character. There's no doubt about it. But it is also about ensuring equality. Equality is important when we talk about unity, about the union of the Spaniards, because Spain is a union of free and equal citizens. That is one of the attractions of this great project that is Spain. Equality is important and sovereignty, in its true sense, the sovereignty attributed to the whole of the Spanish people, is also important. But it turns out that when it comes to defending equality and sovereignty, we have, not in recent years, in recent decades, encountered a series of dysfunctions which, of course, have aggravated the problems. Right now, we have two territorial chambers. The Congress of Deputies and the Senate are two territorial chambers, and that was not the will of the parents of the Constitution, it was not the constitutional will. All of us here know that three quarters of the time we spend debating in plenary is to listen to respectable, legitimate, interesting, but partly. Each of us represents the whole of the Spanish people. I do not want to introduce in those who do not have a sense of representing the whole of the Spanish people what they do not have, that of what they lack, but the truth is that they represent it. The dysfunctions of the system, the fact that the Senate does not function as a real House of Territorial Representation is what has been filling the political discourse and the political-media bubble with particularisms, what has filled it with apostles of the sum zero, as if Spanish politics were always a game of the sum zero, some win because others lose. No, because even those who would like to have a different state, when they did, would not understand that new state as a zero sum game. They would not understand that some provinces or regions were thinking only of their interests and not of those of their new state as a whole. [[Applauds]] Too much selfishness on earth. If the figure that embodied the system of the Restoration was the provincial casino, the one that embodies the system of 78 is the provincial exhaust. We're tired of what's wrong with me. We know that all the interests they say and claim to defend are legitimate, but, gentlemen, they are always the same. I can worry about the financing of Valencia and at the same time I can worry about the infrastructures of the Basque Country and I can worry about the situation of Catalan health or work in Andalusia, I can worry all at the same time. I appreciate an exercise in sincerity to someone who twittered the president of my party, his Lordship Oskar Matute of Bildu. I'll read what he wrote: 'By clarifying something to Albert Rivera and one day make a somewhat sane analysis - let it do, I guess it means -: Bildu has no intention of ruling Spain - well -. We only operate in politics in front of each scenario thinking about how to weaken and end the consensus of the 78' regime. Very well, you have recognized it, I thank you for the sincerity, the sincerity that some of those who sit in those ranks do not have. His will is to weaken the system of 78, his will is to weaken us and our obligation is to introduce measures which, in Italy, Germany, Sweden, Greece, Poland, Norway, Finland, Austria, Denmark and many other countries in our environment, set a threshold for national voting. We propose this threshold of 3% of the national vote and we propose it as a way to materialize and begin to turn into reality our proclaimed will to continue within a united Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u75	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What laziness this debate gives me! - really -, presented on September 16, 2016, and they have to get it out now, precisely? About what? They could have waited until September to be able to confront a little bit. I also have to say, Mr Floriano, that your speech has had nothing to do with some of the things we have heard about this on other occasions and even of colleagues from your own parliamentary group. In that regard, it has been more moderate. You draw Article 2 at the beginning of your proposal, the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, and also talk about that great agreement that was the Constitution. By clarifying it once again to the whole House, we do not vote for the Constitution, we are not part of the Spanish constitutional agreement. For many reasons but, among others and which is very important, because it does not recognize the Basque nation. We do not vote in favour of the Spanish Constitution, nor do we form part of the agreement or of the Constitutional Commission. The will... The will will be of the citizens and the will can be variable. From our point of view, there are several nations in Spain, not only the Spanish nation; there are other nations with linguistic characteristics, by institutional history and because there has been a sense of differentiated community as a differentiated national group for years and years and years, and it continues to exist. Because to speak of the unity of the Spanish nation and of the Constitution which, according to its article 8, appoints the army as its guarantor, I do not believe that this can be very democratic. I believe that in the 21st century we would have to start talking more about popular will, right?, but in the Spanish Constitution the guarantor of unity is the army. They continue to say that the Government has been reiterating its commitment and conviction in defending the constitutional order and the lawfulness in force. It seems normal to me, that's what the government has to do. The problem is when it is confused with immobilism, with believing that it is the sacred tables and that society does not change, and that society does not demand expression and that the law and the Constitution itself must adapt to the new times, and above all based on increasingly democratic principles. You choose to ask us to oppose any attempt at secession referendum. I believe that a large part of this House still has 19th-century schemes. A referendum of secession or a referendum of consultation to know people's opinion implies democracy, and what a democratic constitution should do is facilitate its exercise, as we have seen in countries around us. Read the case of the United Kingdom or the Canadian case, but there have also been others who have solved it very calmly, such as Czechoslovakia or, at the time, at the beginning of the 20th century, the Norwegian case, etc. Listen to people and facilitate their exercise. What's wrong with hearing people? What is unity without consent, without the will of the people? Do you really think that approving a thousand PNLs like this will silence Catalonia's national feeling, or Euskadi's or to a lesser extent Galicia's? What is it, to hide the head, as if there were no things, behind great proclamations, believing that this is how matters are to be solved, putting a gag to some and giving the feeling - their amenders have yet to prove it more clearly - that what is not seen does not exist? Thus, the 3% issue is proposed, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid and saying that it is a technical amendment - it has melés -; exactly it says: technical improvement - a little more imagination. We hide our heads underground, like the ostrich, and erase from the map the 3, 4 or 5 million people who have another way of seeing their own country, their own nation. The problem, gentlemen of Citizens and of the People's Party - I say to the whole House - is not us, the nationalist parties - our representation is approximately that which would correspond to us in population numbers; sometimes a little more and sometimes a little less; the problem is that you are not able to agree. If you are the vast majority of the House, with which the great national parties - as you like to say, Mr Girauta - would have agreed, you would have already solved it. What can we do, if there are four - thirty - so many - there every time you vote? Therefore, the problem is you. How can you talk to me about selfishness? Selfishness is his, his, who are unable to agree for their homeland, for their country, who carry him much in the mouth but little in the head and heart on most occasions. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up, Mr. President. And they're really talking about the state pact? When was there a state pact here? Neither of education nor of this nor of the other. If they are unable to agree and use all the topics, however delicate they may be, to throw the stuff at their head. Are we the problem? Are we the selfish? Please... you'll see if you think it's best to keep us out, keep our voices quiet, and if you think that's going to solve the problem or, upside down, it's going to get bigger. Do you want to defend the unity of Spain in truth or to crave among yourselves by taking these issues out here? Ladies and gentlemen, defend what you think, you have every right to it, and I will be the first to respect it, but do it democratically, respecting those who do not feel Spanish, recognizing the difference, allowing them to express their opinions, respecting that, if they do so, majority and clearly, they can be separated, because that does not end with Spain - that does not end with Spain - and trying to reach the conviction that the best thing for those who do not feel Spanish, that what is best for them, is to maintain the unity of Spain through conviction, demonstrating things. If not, it will not be worth anything, because, from the order and command, from the order and command, which is what you claim, nothing is achieved, and neither is anything achieved by erasing or wanting to erase the institutional presence of the nationalist parties. If you go around, that'll make democrats just a mouthpiece. And the unity of your country - which I respect very much because I also have feelings about the Basque nation and I understand those that the Spaniards may have about it -, if they continue there, will be more committed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u77	Thank you very much, President. Paraphrasing the great, great Aitor Stephen today: What a sloth! I congratulate Comrade Girauta because after two years it is very good to know what Oskar Matute and Bildu are trying to achieve. I congratulate you. Mr Floriano, I am addressing you and the entire People's Group bench as promoters of this initiative, this GNP. Do you know what a Spanish test is? It's your thing, huh? A Spanish test is a test that, on your own initiative, since 2015, you pass to foreigners who want to opt for Spanish nationality to know basically how Spanish they are and whether they deserve to be. This GNP that you bring here today, with the obvious support of your subsidiary, is your particular test of Spanishness to all of us to know how Spanish we are according to you. So let us make a deal, Mr Floriano, lords of Citizens. I will now pass you in the short time I have a summary of the test that you pass to foreigners who ask for nationality. If they approve it, I promise that my group will vote in favour of this GNP, which is ultimately its own Spanish test. Good luck, adalides of the unity of the homeland! First question: Where does national sovereignty reside? It's easy. (A) The parties. (B) The Government. (C) The people. D) The king. It's the C). It's easy, says the Constitution. Then why did Philip of Bourbon go on TV on October 3rd to threaten a people who had freely voted forty-eight hours earlier in Catalonia? First mistake. Second question: Spain is a state... A) Catholic. B) Layman. C) Confessional. It's easy, too. C) Confessional. The Constitution says so. Then why has the Church been without paying the IBI for forty years? Then why are there ministers who decorate virgins of wood? Second mistake. Third question: Are Spaniards equal before the law? It's easy, too. (A) Yes. (B) No. C) Depends. The answer is A). It's easy, says the Constitution. Then why are there fascists who assaulted the Blanquerna on the street and, instead, Jordi Cuixart's two-year-old son has to see his father for a lot of months after a glass of Soto del Real? Why? Third mistake. - It's very good for you to look at your benches. Fourth question: The economy of an autonomous community vis-à-vis the State is a competition. (a) Shared. B) Exclusive. (C) Guardianship. It's also super easy, it's sucked. B) Exclusive. The Constitution says so. Then why did the three of you - I repeat: the three of you - vote in this very room an unworthy decree encouraging the flight of companies from Catalonia!Is that what you're talking about? Then why did the three of you vote, applauding with your ears, an even more unworthy article 155 in the Senate!Is that what you're talking about? Why? You three: blue, orange and red. The truth is, you guys aren't that patriotic, either. The truth is that you are as patriots and as adelids of the unity of the homeland as were those Salem inquisitors, who were not patriots: you were fanatics. And there's no flag that can cover up so much shame. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u79	Thank you, President. This non-law proposal on the unity of Spain is cynical, expired and is frantist. It does not contribute in any positive way to the debate on the territorial crisis and the situation in Catalonia. You speak of a nation of free and equal citizens. The PP, with the support of Citizens, has systematically attacked freedoms. Are free citizens and free citizens when their government and their laws have threatened freedom of expression? Free with rappers and prosecuted trade unionists and politicians imprisoned with unfair and abusive pre-trial detention? Amnesty International's 2017-2018 report on Spain says: The right to freedom of expression and the right to peaceful assembly of persons supporting Catalan independence were disproportionately restricted. Tens of people were prosecuted for the rise of terrorism and humiliation of victims on social networks. Citizens and citizens alike? The PP government has been a machine to generate inequalities, to break the equality between Spanish and Spanish. Look: the richest 20% of the population is 6.6 times richer than the poorest 20%; in France and Germany it is 4.5. In 2011, the percentage of poor workers was 23%, now 28%. During their years of government, 300,000 people have been evicted from their homes. People have been less free and equal with the People's Party government, but the PP prefers to talk about territorial unity in Spain than about social equality and freedoms. They talk about sovereignty, but you didn't have a problem! to sell sovereignty to the Troika and the markets and approve the reform of 135 of the Constitution. And why are you taking out this GNP now? Because you don't want the conflict in Catalonia to deflame. They don't want climate change. They don't want political dialogue. They are wrong because the climate of confrontation has also been lethal for their own electoral interests, and not only in Catalonia. They are in hard competition with Citizens granting patriotism cards, and the first patriotic duty, as an ethical duty, is not to steal. It is not worth beating the chest for Spain to at the same time feed corruption, the theft of public money that should have gone to education, health or social services. The Government of the Generalitat was seriously wrong with the proclamation of independence rather than calling for elections. But you are responsible for the constitutional crisis in Spain. They resorted to a Statute approved by the Parliament, by the Courts, and ratified in referendum by the citizens of Catalonia. They manipulated the Constitutional Court to obtain a ruling favourable to its interests. What's the bottom line? That the People's Party, in competition with Citizens, is a nationalist party that acts as such with a conception of the national sovereignty more peculiar to the nineteenth century than the shared sovereigntys of the twenty-first century. They do not recognize Spain's national diversity. Its model of national construction is uniformity; a uniformity imposed in an authoritarian way. And it's an expired PNL, it's September 2016! It is not time for fronts, it is time to sit down and talk, to dialogue among all those who think differently without exclusions. The main challenge at the moment should be that the constitutional principle and the democratic principle should be re-found. Compliance with the law is fundamental in democracy, but if laws and governments do not serve to channel democratic demands, to bring about political conflicts through legal and democratic channels, we will have a serious problem leading to the degradation of democracy. The constitutional principle and the democratic principle were found in Canada, in the famous Supreme Court ruling on Quebec, which states that the Canadian Constitution, which does not provide for secession of territory or referendum, should be read from principles such as the constitutional and federal principles, but also from the democratic principle and respect for minorities in order to make the referendum possible. It is an option that has yielded better results to deactivate the Quebec conflict than the systematic refusal to hold a fair referendum in Catalonia. We do not need a state pact for the unity of Spain, we need to rebuild the social pact and we need a new territorial pact based on the recognition of the diversity of nations, which is the best guarantee of a unity in freedom. And the basis for establishing coexistence in a common state is plurinationality, solidarity and fraternity. Mr Floriano has told us about Herrero de Miñon. Mr Herrero de Minón has proposals such as the additional provision of Catalonia or the constitutional mutation. Learn from him because, at least, he has proposals. You have absolutely no constructive proposal to solve the constitutional crisis. What generates unity and a sense of belonging? Belong to a community that proudly recognizes the diversity of nations that make up it, that ensures that no one is left without health care, that no one is allowed to live in poverty. That's what unites. The authoritarian impositions and the non-recognition of plurinationality separate. In conclusion, a message to the new Government and the Socialist Group: Do not shake your legs to the right, do not get complicated; face the territorial debate courageously; take on the federal and plurinational challenge with all its consequences. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess my perplexity and that of my group to this repeated non-law proposal from the People's Group, of which we had a first edition - you will recall - in March 2016. And it is perplexing to insist both on solemnizing the obvious over and over again, appealing to principles, concepts, aspirations and realities that are fully shared by the vast majority of the citizens of this country and by the majority political groups that represent them: unity of Spain, defence of its integrity, national sovereignty, defence of the Constitution. With the exception of the independenceists, every citizen knows and shares that this pact is clearly established and clearly guaranteed in the Constitution itself, and it is not necessary to renew each year with a generic and rhetorical claim through an empty GNP, which offers nothing new. [[Applauds]] Every citizen knows and assumes that our Constitution is something great, created by the effort of the entire Spanish community in difficult times; a law of laws that we have all acquired in the exercise of popular sovereignty, yes, and that only popular sovereignty could change. For this reason we are illustrated and persuaded of the absolute illegitimacy of the intended unilateral path of independence declared and assumed by the secessionist nationalism of Catalonia. Why? Because this is a process that is entirely outside the law, outside constitutionalism, outside the international order and outside the European Union. Only some remain in the surprising incoherence of affirming that they want the unity of Spain, but they recognize the so-called right to decide, that talisman idea, as Professor López Basaguren calls it, covering up a so-called non-existent right to secession, only present in the constitutions of three countries: Uzbekistan, Ethiopia, and San Cristóbal and Nieves, which are not exactly models that motivate their imitation. It also gives rise to perplexity that the declaratory call to the defense of the unity of Spain comes from a group and from a government that has settled during all these years - indeed more than a chandelier already - in immobilism, making abandonment of politics and trusting it all to the goddess fortune and to the judicial proceedings, making only gestures out of action for its faithful and potential voters, but without offering any proposal that could open up space for political and constitutional development to direct the territorial conflict that we have in our country. [[applause]] By not doing so, the PP government has not even made the slightest effort to combat outside our borders the poisoned and ominous independenceist propaganda, which tries to present Spain as an authoritarian state. Moreover, without doing anything, the Group and the Government of the People's Party have allowed themselves to underestimate other proposals seriously studied and put on the table for a shared, serious debate, in search of new consensus, as is the case with our proposal to update and improve the autonomous state through a federal reform. But the complaint syndrome is not exclusive to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, your 2016 initiative was discussed together - remember - with others of the Citizens' Group who, by the way, fiercely defended Mr. Rivera, a copy of the Constitution in his hand, and at the climax of his allegation he had a proactive prompt and asked the House: Do we want from Citizens to reform the Constitution, update or improve it? Yes, he answered. And he continued: Why don't we think about whether among the vast majority of this House we begin to see where constitutional reform unites us? The route of this horse snatching you already know. The Non-Permanent Commission for the Evaluation and Modernization of the Autonomous State was set up at the request of the Socialist Group, shortly after the start of its work, the Citizens Group abandoned it with a politically childish excuse, perhaps encouraged by the electoral demoscopy of the day. We are now being given the 3% proposal - which I shall not comment on any more - of your amendment, a real contradictory milestone, which comes to add to others for exclusion and confrontation. So, again, I ask your ladies and gentlemen the same question that Mrs Batet asked at that session in 2016: Is this House useful to citizens by voting on the Constitution in the form of non-legislative proposals? Is there anything in it, is there any solution in it, or should we go further? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is neither in the air nor in rhetoric, it is in politics, it is in action. Anyone who ascends to a rostrum has an obligation to offer more than a proclamation. When the whole society is waiting for us to find solutions to our problems, it is not worth offering only words and more words, however beautiful they may be, because reality is plagued with bitter facts. Let's not preach so much, let's give water, let's give wheat. In this time of Spain we are asked representatives to be, as Machado wanted, at the height of the people we represent and not to sing, not to sing what we fear could be lost. We Socialists reaffirm the duty to face constitutional reform with hope and long lights. Ladies and gentlemen, we start from the fact that the fundamental identity is human and citizen and that it is built on the basis of the dignity of freedom, equality and solidarity. We have to assume at once that as the universe itself, as Newton said: We are diverse in unity and we are united in diversity; and we also add: We are united even if we do not want it in conflict. Our concept of unity, therefore, is not rhetorical; it is complex, because it is born of the recognition of our reality: a plural, diverse, supportive, tolerant Spain. Unity and diversity must be resolved, as Master García-Pelayo said, in a synthesis or fruitful dialectical political unity. Ladies and gentlemen, I have concluded. The best way to achieve this pact with the unity of Spain and the defence of the Constitution is to incorporate one another and reintegrate another. Reintegrate and reintegrate into the Commission of Study for the Evaluation and Modernization of the Autonomous State! For what? [[Applauds]] To make commitments through dialogue, through open debate, without reservations, because unity based on sovereignty is certainly, a priori, unspeakable. The sovereignty of the people is, a priori, unbearable, but also the best defence of the Constitution is to reform it when necessary, as well as to go far beyond an exclusive idea of defence tout court because it is necessary to put a clear horizon, and that horizon is to seek how to build the coexistence of people, peoples and territories on renewed bases and with the necessary democratic depth, of course. For what? To stay together, to grow together, as together we have been and together we have grown over the centuries. Thus raised the issue and with this understanding of the initiative, we do not understand why the People's Group has not accepted an amendment that the Canary Coalition has proposed.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u82	Mr. Chamber, you have to come to an end.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u83	In any case, we, bearing in mind that what is being done is to reflect strictly on those points what the Constitution says without further development, will obviously vote in favour. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chamber. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I ask Mr Floriano Corrales whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u85	We're working on a transactional, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u86	All right, thank you very much. We'll take that into account. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON EUROPEAN MIGRANT CONTROL POLICY IN THE CENTRAL MEDITERRANEAN. [[File number 162/000490]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u87	We turn to the following item on the agenda: No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the European policy of migration control in the Central Mediterranean. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Merchán Mesón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u88	President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is bringing to plenary today an issue that we have taken on various initiatives both in the Commission and in plenary throughout the parliamentary term. Today, as a group that supports the Government of Spain, we take up a subject that we are deeply concerned about and want to respond to now with the Government and do so with the support of this House. Every day at some point on the African coast of the Mediterranean there are groups of people who start another stage of their survival journey to the European coasts. Crossing from one shore to another of the Mediterranean Sea has become one of the most dangerous trips on the planet. Since 2014, 16,140 people have died on this route, which we know. More than 33,000 people have arrived by sea in Europe over the past year, almost 9000 in Spain, people who mainly use the Central Mediterranean route from Libya to Italy and increasingly the Western route to Spain. When one route is complicated, another route is used, you don't give up the trip. The arrivals by sea of migrants or refugees are not new for Spanish society. The Andalusian coasts, Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla have been living this reality for many years. This same weekend as all the glances landed in the port of Valencia, more than a thousand people arrived at the Andalusian and Canary Islands coasts. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u89	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u90	However, we are far from critical situations such as those experienced in 2015, when more than a million people arrived in Europe by sea, or from the arrivals of cayucos in the Canary Islands in 2005, which Spain had to manage alone. There are no avalanches or massive arrivals or much less invasions and the figures are clear in this. Language is not neutral and talking about avalanches or effect called little or nothing contributes to the management of one of the biggest challenges facing Europe: the management of migratory flows. These days the world is looking at our country, looking at us with respect and looking at us with hope. The decision of the Government of Spain to host the ship Aquarius, after the nearest ports in Italy and Malta refused to host it, has become the symbol that Europe is not giving the appropriate response to the situation in the Mediterranean. Therefore, looking away cannot be an option in politics, there is always someone who suffers the consequences. Someone had to take the step to prevent a crisis from becoming a tragedy. Someone had to react and we can proudly say that it was the Government of our country. [[Applauds]] For the government of President Sánchez looking away is not an option. There are those who qualify the reception of people aboard the Aquarius as a policy of gestures. Hosting 630 people is not a gesture, but the commitment of a Government that does not reject responsibilities and for which international solidarity is a priority and a commitment. With its decision, the Government has responded to the long-standing demands of autonomous communities, municipalities, NGOs and citizens as a whole for us to meet the host commitments. And I want to take advantage to recognize the work that non-governmental organizations, volunteers, professionals, and State Security Forces and Bodies did in an extremely coordinated and effective way last Sunday in the port of Valencia, demonstrating that we can be able to make an effective welcome. [[Applauds]] Why does Spain have to do what others don't do? The answer is simple: by responsibility. That is to be a great nation too, ladies and gentlemen, that is to be a great nation. The world press today is full of chilling headlines: census of ethnic groups, children in cages, drownings at sea. The European project in check for migration. We cannot let those who support these practices lead the debate in Europe. In politics, as in life in general, one can be an actor or spectator and this government has decided to be an actor, to assume the role that history has put before it and that it is Spain, as an actor on the international scene, that assumes the weight and the role that it has as a protagonist of politics. The rescue of the Aquarius must be a call to European solidarity, to the assumption of responsibilities for building a common and shared response, because the Mediterranean borders are European borders. Europe is and does what its Member States want it to do, and at a time when there are governments with very different views about what the European project should be, it is imperative that those of us who believe in the European principles and values of solidarity, equality and human rights take a step forward. That is the attitude that can be expected of a country like Spain. We are one of the countries most affected by migration flows, we have extensive experience in management and this gives us more legitimacy and responsibility in seeking solutions. This was announced by the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, who will speak with all European leaders in view of the next meeting of the Council of Europe, where the debate on a common migration policy and a common asylum and asylum system must be addressed. That is why this non-legislative proposal at the plenary session, at the seat of popular sovereignty, is timely. It has already been discussed and approved in the Commission, but the circumstances make it appropriate to pronounce this House's plenary. We need a common European migration policy, a human rights-based asylum and protection policy, without renouncing border security, but both policies must be compatible. We need a migration management that minimizes the risk to life, which does not make the Mediterranean a common pit. Search and rescue capacities in the Mediterranean must be strengthened so as to avoid shipwrecks. This responsibility cannot be neglected and placed on NGOs, which are also criminalized by it and accused of collaborating with the mafias. One way to end the mafia is to enable legal and secure channels, so that the future of thousands of people does not depend on these mafia organizations. I would also like to acknowledge the work of NGOs, as I have already mentioned; some, such as Proactive Open Arms or the firefighters from Proem-Aid, Seville, were criminalized and, fortunately, excused, as it should be. I would also like to thank the amendments of other groups, which have enriched the text. And I end up referring to the supposed so-called effect that some are committed to maintaining. The so-called effect is that we are the world's most unequal border on resources, rights and opportunities. Africa will in just a few years concentrate 40% of the world's children on an unpopulated and ageing Europe; boys and girls who, if not repaired, will not find the opportunities and rights they deserve in their countries and will look for them wherever they think they can find them. Says Somali poet Warsan Shire that no one climbs their children to a boat unless the water is safer than the earth. Policy is needed to solve political problems, the real causes of the flight of thousands of people; policy and resources for development. I'm done, President. The rescue at sea, abandoning these people to their fate or closing ports and borders does not make us a more secure continent, nor does it solve the causes that make it a safer option for thousands of people to jump into the water than to stay on their land. More than worrying about the supposed effect called, let's deal with the effect that makes them run away. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs Merchán. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Bataller i Ruiz is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for me to summarize in the time when I have the sensations of immense joy that I experienced last Sunday when the fleet of the Aquarius enters the port of my city, but I do want to remember that history is sometimes able to crystallize in a brief moment long processes of reflection and change. [[Rumors]] The arrival of the 629 migrants to Valencia will mark a time and a time in terms of the migration policy of Spain and possibly of Europe, even if there are people who do not like, for example, the picturesque and insensitive current president of the United States. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u93	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u94	The wave of solidarity prompted us to open a serious debate to give a new approach to migration, asylum and shelter that will make us see it as phenomena that need to be addressed from the integrative maturity and not from aggressive childishness. What would have been of many of us, of myself, if the world had not been able to welcome our grandparents, who fled the coup victory, or our parents, who escaped the lack of vital prospects? In this non-legislative proposal, which we hope will be adopted today, we want to see not only wishes and intentions, but also to guide the new government in defending another migration policy and also in maintaining a strong position on 28 and 29 June with our European partners. It is time to have a voice in Europe in front of the anti-migration and xenophobic wave. It is time to build alliances with other countries. It is time for Spain to lead and seize the opportunity to develop a migration policy that takes on the challenges that exist in this area, that does not stop, does not close and does not turn us into fortresses, but rather understands the structural complexity of human movements, the need to strengthen international cooperation for development and the need to strengthen weak state structures and processes of integration outside Europe. Obviously, it also goes through the imperative need to stop promoting and justifying wars and violence beyond our borders. It is necessary to thank the massive response and the wave of solidarity that has awakened the arrival of the Aquarius throughout the territory of the State, especially in Valencia, where the level of commitment of society and public administrations has been more than at the height. We are a plural state, and thanks to the vision of the problem through the prism of plurality we have met before the image of what we are: a solidarity state. I tell the proponents that they will find Compromís for whatever it is to add strength, bring an open vision to society and create alliances. That is why we are voting in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an initiative that is very close to reality. My group must logically share and appreciate positively the Government's decision regarding the reception of refugees from the Aquarius ship and must also express its support for NGOs operating in the Mediterranean, particularly Open Arms, which, as you know, is an NGO born in our country, in Badalona. But my group must necessarily raise three considerations with the Government in this debate. Firstly, the need for a common asylum and alternative migration policy within the European Union at the next meeting of the European Council, to which the European Union has so far been developing, and there is the challenge of the reform of the Dublin Regulation, the need for a system of solidarity between Member States and the need to provide legal and safe channels for refugees. But within the framework of this European policy, the Spanish Government also has responsibilities, for example, in Ceuta and Melilla, which were black holes in human rights at times of the Socialist Government and at times of the People's Party Government. There is also a need to bring the Asylum Act into line with the requirements of the new European directives and to strengthen the possibilities for access to the right of asylum in Spain. In Spain, usually - even when you have ruled - the recognition of asylum has represented about two or three thousand people a year, and the vast majority of asylum applications have been rejected in the last thirty years. Therefore, together with the gesture, with the decision, with all its importance, with all its value, you, in the coming days, weeks and months, will have to explain to us what your policy of asylum and immigration, asylum and alternative and different shelter this Government is going to develop. In this respect, the amendments of the Democratic Party seek to force the whole House to pronounce in this direction, and we have not heard from the Socialist Group's spokesman any consideration in relation to our amendments. I hope that from now on we will be given a text that will improve what the Socialist Group is offering us, because in this area - and I shall conclude, Mr President - what is required is that we are able to reach a broad political agreement that will allow the Government to display it at the next meeting of the European Council and that will allow the legislative development that would be necessary in this area in the coming years. In any case, count on our support and collaboration in this policy, as I am sure you will also count on the support and collaboration of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u99	Wait a minute, Mr. Matute. Ladies and gentlemen, I would beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I begin by pointing out what the meaning of our vote is going to be. We will vote in favour of the initiative. To be honest, it seems to us that it improves or alleviates the current situation, although we believe that it lacks more depth, that it lacks more packaging and dimension to address the real problem. We will only make three considerations or reflections for the limited time we have. The first has to do with finding out where the European Union is going. The European Union is moving in its policies towards the systematic degradation of human rights, towards the continued violation of human rights. The European Union is committed to necropolitics in the face of human rights. The priority of the European Union is to prevent the entry of migrants and refugees into Community soil, and for this it externalizes the borders, before with Turkey and now with Libya, a country that does not currently have a pass in democratic terms; respect for human rights on Libyan soil today is a quimera, the violation of these borders is a finding and evidence, as is also its relationship with the mafias of trafficking in persons. But not only that, they are not only based on the outsourcing of borders to prevent the entry of migrants and refugees, but if they were formerly chasing people on the move or migrants, they are now also chasing defenders of people on the move. In the face of this, some considerations or questions can be asked to the European Union, which Mr Sánchez's government might well... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u101	Wait a minute, Mr. Matute. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u102	Mr Sánchez's government could move some questions to the next European summit, such as: What does the European Union intend to do to prevent, for example, the President of Proactive Open Arms, Mr Camps, from having Sahara and the Mediterranean as the gas chambers of the 21st century? Are you going to continue to perpetrate the criminalization of NGOs? I'm done. This story is of people who are written by people with names and surnames. You can choose the xenophobic speech of Orban, you can choose the fascism of Salvini, you can choose the delirious measures of the duet of ministers of interior before the present, that is, Mr.Zoido and Mr.Fernández Díaz, with his actions and omissions in El Tarajal or with the concertinas, or you can bet on another kind of people, such as Helena Maleno, the Eritrean Mussie Zerai, Mikelon Zuloaga or Begoña Huarte. One can bet, in short, on the thousands of people who commit their own lives to defending the dignity and lives of others.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea. [[Rumors]] I would ask the honourable Members who are making such constant correlations that they have much better spaces than the House to hold these talks. Mrs. Surra.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-legislative proposal that we are discussing today, proposed by the Socialist Group in October 2017, is becoming more notorious due to two important events that have recently occurred, such as the change of government and the conflict generated by the Aquarius boat. We have therefore decided to table amendments to improve the initial proposal put forward, as we said, in other circumstances. We propose to host, before 31 December 2018, the 17,337 refugees to whom the Spanish State committed itself to the European Union in the 2015 agreement on the relocation and resettlement of refugees. We propose to establish a reception plan for all these people, fully funded by the Spanish Government. We propose to put an end to the summary and collective expulsions in Ceuta and Melilla that impede access to the international protection procedure and violate the principle of non-refoulement. We propose to reject the signing of agreements by the European Union and its Member States with third countries that do not respect human rights and international law and to put those that are in force and do not comply with this requirement into effect. We propose to amend the Asylum Act, in order to ensure all legal rights and guarantees for applicants and, in particular, to recover the right to seek asylum from any diplomatic delegation and not to recognize the case of a safe third country as a cause of non-admission. We propose to immediately make the necessary legal changes so that the final closure of the foreign detention centres, CIE, is fully effective, also before 31 December 2018. In order to ensure a truly effective reception, we cannot fail to propose an exceptional regularization of the Aliens Act which allows for the ease of obtaining the necessary documentation so that people can quickly obtain legal work and family reunification is facilitated. In conclusion, we also propose the immediate abolition of Spain's examination of constitutional and socio-cultural knowledge as a requirement for the acquisition of nationality. It is clear that policies at European Union level have not helped to solve the refugee problem. It has not moved a finger to stop the war, which does not benefit any of its member countries, but the private ones who are engaged in the manufacture of weapons. Nor has the hermetic closure of borders been successful, nor has it paid third countries to prevent the arrival of people, which far from meaning an economy for the Member States has meant excessive spending. Today we have the opportunity not only to save human lives, but also to cooperate in the development of safe channels for the transfer of persons and to promote, in the framework of the SECA negotiations, a compulsory quota-sharing mechanism, so that refugees are welcomed in a fair and equitable manner, thus fulfilling the Member States' international obligations and the principle of shared responsibility. Let us start from here by turning around the media campaign and the false rumors that make you mistakenly believe that because of refugees and immigration there are fewer jobs, that refugees and immigrants take all the social aid, that they are going to invade the country or that they will change their identity or that they will make a so-called effect. Today, on the world day of refugees, let us begin by telling the truth about this issue, which is not a refugee crisis, but a crisis of values, a crisis of human rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss an issue which is the greatest challenge facing the European Union today both because of the refugee crisis and because of the crisis of economic migrants. When I talk about the challenge of the European Union, it is because we do not understand that it is only a challenge of Spain, it is a common challenge, and that is why common solutions must be sought. We need to talk about that shared responsibility, which is the responsibility that one has when one decides to be part of a project such as the European Union. Spain has borders to the south, physical and maritime borders, but, as I said, the problem of immigration is not only the responsibility of Spain, Italy, Greece or the countries of southern Europe, it is a project and a common challenge that we have to face in this way. The European character that characterizes our party makes us, when we talk about Europe, talk about more Europe, talk about European borders and, above all, about it as a common problem. When you say that you are European, it is not a question of putting a label or a plate or of taking a flag out of Europe, it is a question of understanding that we need common policies, that we need to defend all our borders and, of course, they are borders of the European Union, not just of the Member States. We are talking not only about immigration, we are talking about human rights and what we need in terms of common legislation. The patches and inaction have been the tonic in recent years. They have provided no solutions or anything to deal with this situation. Today we could say that there have only been patches that are not resolved by the mayors, that with their best will decide to accept or not, it is decided by Community legislation. Ministers from the 28 countries have been negotiating on a common asylum policy for months. Unfortunately, each country has decided to go free, each country has looked for its own interest or, what is the same, its navel. If we believe that this about being in the European Union is just about putting a label on us and not looking for those common points and defending our borders, we really don't know what we're talking about. We are from the European Union for everything, not just for a few things. And these agreements have to have different pillars: firstly, the willingness to deal with this situation; secondly, to establish a common border policy, to assume that they are borders of the European Union. We need to invest and work in origin and also in transit countries. The lack of agreement, ladies and gentlemen, has only been to awaken xenophobic and anti-European and populist movements in our union. [[Rumors]] As I say, to get away from patches and marketing, we need to talk about what happened this weekend. This weekend the Aquarius arrived on the Spanish coast, with 629 people on board... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u107	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u108	Mr. President, we could give them a piscolabis and it would take them better in the afternoon. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u109	Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u110	As I said, this weekend the Aquarius has arrived on the Spanish coast, with 629 people on board. This is an exceptional situation, although some extremists have welcomed it, and even Minister Borrell himself has said so. But this weekend, far from the marketing campaign, far from the photo, another 1290 people have arrived at our shores. I want to send a message of thanks for the work that the various NGOs and Maritime Rescue are doing, because, without photos and cameras, they do a great job. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I still remember the coasts of my autonomous community in 2005, when the arrival of pateras tripled. I still remember the inability to manage and, above all, I still remember headlines like those who said that the waters between Africa and the Canary Islands were the largest African cemetery that existed. I still remember that incapacity. That is why I say that we alone cannot manage this problem and that we have to work within the European Union. The heads of State have set themselves the deadline of 28 and 29 June to reach an agreement. This could be the last opportunity to reach such an agreement, but in the face of recent events I have to ask the Government whether it has a strategy for resolving the migration situation, what this temporary President of the Government intends to do to tackle this problem, or what proposal this Government is going to bring to the next Council of Ministers. In my European political family we have said that if there is no agreement in this Council, we will bring that Council before the courts for incapacity to act. To reach agreements, we are here; to make common policy, we will be here; to talk about marketing and photos, they will not count on my party. [[Rumors]] I'm done with the president. [[Rumors]] Allow me to doubt, not only the attention of this House at this time, where we are talking about such a serious issue, but the need to debate countless times the same thing, in the same format, as a GNP. At the moment, the government is part of the Socialist Party and brings us a GNP based on that of the Commission. I say that they could have brought something more effective than a GNP, but, I repeat, if they have a project, they present it to us one day and the President wants to come, for that, to arrive at a common position to defend in the Council of Ministers, count on us. If it's to keep talking about photos, cameras and marketing, I guess that's why you'll be left alone or with friends who don't believe in our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u112	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2017 a CNN report put at the centre of the front pages of the world something that, on the other hand, the European authorities had already known for a very long time, and it was a reality that put hair as scarves. That reality is that in Libya today, in 2018, there are slave markets. In Libya today you can buy and sell to a migrant or refugee person for between 200 and 800 euros. I ask you to think this through. In Libya today, in 2018, people are sold to be enslaved, to be exploited laborably and sexually, people who in many cases have already had to go through very dangerous routes that have lasted months or even years. Those people are the ones who, completely desperate, have to throw themselves into the sea in precarious boats, at night, without lifeguards, and that's when it comes to a chilling reality that already popular phrase that says that you only put your daughters in the water when the water is safer than the earth. In no other way is it understood that thousands of people a year play their lives and die many of them to try to reach European soil. In the face of this, the European Union has adopted a role that is no more well known than it is less humiliating for those who believe that there is still the possibility of a European project on human rights, reception and solidarity. To say that the European Union has turned its back on refugees is to stay short, to stay very short. The European Union decided in June 2015 to abandon the rescue operations and start an operation, Operation Sophia, which basically put Libya as a preferred partner, that country in which, as I have just said, there are slave markets. He decided that his best option was to train the Libyan coastguards, genuine paramilitaries who basically had to prevent the boats from leaving the Libyan coasts, had to get them to stay there for those people to be enslaved, tortured in detention centres; it was those paramilitaries that just a month ago threatened the NGO Proactive Open Arms with opening fire if they did not hand over to the girls and the women they had rescued. This must be made clear because, if not, it is easy for us to normalize the flow of news of deaths, to normalize violence at the borders. It is important to listen, but above all it is important to act, because it is time to act against this, especially because the lives of migrants and refugees do matter. They matter, and that is why Libya must cease to be an immediate preferred partner in this matter for the European Union. The democratic institutions of Libya must be strengthened and civil society actors must be included to enable us to begin building respect for human rights in that country. Furthermore, Europe urgently needs a rescue and rescue agency to save lives in the Mediterranean, because it is clear that Frontex does not fulfil that role, with a monitoring and control mandate, and of course we also need transparency and information on how this Trust Fund for Africa is being spent, because the information we have is that it is basically being spent on border control, rather than on eradicating poverty, which is what we thought. The Central Mediterranean route, the Libyan route, has indeed been the most used and the most deadly in recent years. [[The lady]] However, it is not the only one. The Spanish border route... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u113	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u114	... is also one of the deadliest and hundreds of people die in it; more than 200 people died on our southern border in 2017. It is surprising that an initiative on deaths in the Mediterranean does not speak about our country, where we have the capacity and the possibility of avoiding deaths at our borders. The government of Pedro Sánchez began its mandate with a breath of hope, announcing the reception of people on board the Aquarius, after they were rejected by Italy. Good news for the rescued people, also for the crew and especially for Spain of the change, which has been demanding for years that we want to welcome, that we want a country that takes care of, that respects the rights of its neighbors and its neighbors no matter where they were born. It's good news, but we also need to talk about more things. We need to talk about what is going to happen to those six hundred people, whether the Government intends to send any of these people to the alien detention centre, as has been said; or what is going to happen after six months or a year in a reception programme, they end up leaving the system with one hand in front of them and another behind them. It is also important to look not only at Valencia. While we were looking at Valencia, many thousands of people were playing their lives also on pateras this very weekend. It's important to talk about whether we're going to open up legal and secure channels to migrate to our country. That would be the only way to ensure that there is not one more death. We need to talk about why it is impossible to apply for asylum in embassies and consulates from third countries or why a visa cannot be applied for in a Spanish embassy in an African country, because closing the legal channels for migration and then complaining about death at borders is called hypocrisy, and we need to put an end to hypocrisy now. [[Applauds]] We also need to talk about fundamental changes that are essential for migration policies to guarantee rights and not death policies, because militarisation of borders has never prevented people from coming, it has only resulted in people dying and suffering more. We must also talk about the ABC front page and who are interested in this country that all the penultimate ones who have left behind the policies of cuts of the People's Party face the last ones they are looking for. It's time to talk about how we're going to beat fascism and racism so they don't move any further. [[Applauds]] It is also up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to say that if you dare to change immigration policy, it is very likely that you will be attacked. You're going to talk about the effect called, that sacrosanct effect called, you're going to talk about invasion even if it's a lie, and then you may have the temptation to be afraid. Don't be afraid. Don't do it, because Spain's policies of the People's Party are narrow to us like a suit that comes small to us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u116	Spain is already diverse. Spain is Mora, it's Latin, it's black, and that diverse Spain is waiting for you, it's waiting for us. Spain is already in progress and is waiting for us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Alberto Pérez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go ahead, Mrs. Alberto.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u118	Thank you, President. In advance of any other consideration, I have to point out that we are surprised that the same initiative presented in the Commission is being brought in just over a month ago. As happened then, we have tabled an amendment which we believe improves the content of this initiative. We hope that on this occasion, contrary to what happened in the previous debate, there will be a willingness on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to negotiate the inclusion of the amendment or part of it, since only a month ago they did not want or sit with us to discuss the possibility of amending it. Bringing this GNP back without adding anything shows the absence of more concrete initiatives or proposals that seek to find definitive solutions to the problems in the implementation of the European migration system. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will always find - I repeat, always - the People's Parliamentary Group in the defence of the lives of migrants seeking access to European territory, either via the Mediterranean or on the Spanish coasts. The cost of a single life is too much for any society that considers itself developed. Where they will not find the collaboration of the People's Parliamentary Group is in the treatment of a problem as serious, deep and complicated as the migration crisis from a policy of gestures raised as a mere political marketing exercise and not as a real proposal to solve the underlying problems that generate it. We believe it is appropriate to stress that the exercise of gestures by the Government of the Socialist Party in relation to the situation of the Aquarius in the face of the refusal of the Maltese and Italian authorities to accept migrants does not help the objective which it has set out from the European Union to find a common position that will enable us to manage the migration situation with the assumption of responsibility by each of the Member States. [[Rumors]] Over the course of 2017 Spanish authorities displaced in the Mediterranean rescued more than 9000 people, and none of them made any publicity because we understand that our duty is to safeguard the lives and dignity of migrants. We must be careful not to carry out actions that directly or indirectly collaborate with the human trafficking mafias operating throughout the Mediterranean and off the Spanish coast, or with actions that may become constitutive of a so-called effect. [[Rumors]] We must be able to offer migrants and those who have the right to refugee or asylum status an opportunity for them to start a vital project that is worthy, but for this to happen, channels must be fostered so that migration is legal, secure and orderly. Nor do we understand that different treatment of situations that are equal is being carried out by the Government. Over the weekend, more than 1200 immigrants arrived on the coast of Andalusia and the Canary Islands - the land from which I come - with the terrible news of the death of several drowned people, as well as a large number of missing persons who are still looking for them. These people who have arrived in pateras tried irregularly to access the Spanish coasts just as it happened with the immigrants who were rescued in the Mediterranean. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u119	Quiet. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u120	However, unlike what has happened with immigrants arriving on the Spanish coast, the current government of the Socialist Party, through a government decision, has decided to regularize its situation for forty-five days. After this worrying weekend, it presents itself as an urgent issue to address with Morocco the need to curb the actions of the mafias who are dealing with people; a business that moves $7 billion a year by enslaving more than 2.5 million people a year into labor and sexual slavery around the world. We would therefore like to know the reasons for Mr Sánchez's decision to start his international life with a bilateral meeting with the French President, rather than with the Moroccan authorities, as has traditionally been done in Spain. Migration policy must be common to all the Member States of the European Union, with neither demagogic nor opportunism in its migration approaches and a coherent, responsible and common sense response is needed. We must not forget that Spain is a country in which migration crises have been managed reasonably well, with adequate regulation for the reality of our country, in line with European legislation, with experienced and professional State security forces and bodies, adequate social and health services, as well as a wide network of NGOs, which provide their experience and have been working very well. We are a supportive and inclusive country, ladies and gentlemen. As we firmly believe that the best way to combat irregular immigration is to go to the underlying reasons that cause it, we present this amendment in which we propose to deepen and improve the measures contained in instruments such as the Emergency Trust Fund for Africa promoted by the previous Government of the People's Party. It must be remembered that we are at an important time of decision-making at European level. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u121	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u122	The budget is being negotiated. In addition, a new proposal for the reform of the Common European Asylum System is being drafted at a very delicate time for countries such as Germany. In a context as complicated as this, in which the very existence of the Union is being questioned with proposals as extreme as disarming the Schengen area, we cannot afford frivolous political approaches, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. That is why we will be willing to work with seriousness, rigour and common sense, but they will not be able to count on us if what they intend to do is to effect without fixing any of the underlying problems. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u124	Thank you very much, President. The non-legislative proposal now under discussion was already discussed with the same text in the Joint Commission for the European Union on 7 May. However, recent events have re-emphasized the European debate on immigration. The proposal urges the Government to focus on the Union's bodies, in order to ensure that migration policies are communitized, that human rights are respected by third countries that cooperate with their migration policies without affecting most of the problem, in addition to the effective recognition of NGOs in rescuing and rescuing in the Central Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, since World War II, Europe has not experienced a migration crisis like the current one, especially on its southern border. The Mediterranean has become the border and the most deadly migratory route on the planet. Until mid-2017, every thirty-two arrivals involved one dead or one missing, and this year, 2018, every seventeen arrivals, one dead and one missing. In addition, this migration crisis is a chronic, not short-term crisis... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u125	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, for what is left of plenary, please be silent. It was impossible to hear what the speaker said with the murmuring. No one will want to intervene at the end of the plenary session. Mr. Legarda, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u126	Thank you very much, President. Moreover - I said - this migration crisis is a chronic, not a short-term crisis, even if it has a solution for specific cases. And it's also a global crisis. We are faced with a global crisis in which no Member State of the Union can find a single solution, in which it is difficult to distinguish between shelter and unwanted economic migration, in so far as, inter alia, the causes of granting asylum or refuge are being widened. Global crisis for Europe because the economic intention to migrate to Africa to the European Union is 51% of sub-Saharan youth between fifteen and twenty-four years from West Africa and 35% from North Africa, and where by 2050 they are expected to double their population, reaching 25 billion with 40% of the world's child population. It is a global crisis for the Union because shelter is also beginning to become a permanent life option because of the great difference in welfare between migrants and recipients, which does not encourage return, forcing the integration of refugees and migrants into work. And we cannot ignore the fact that the long-term unemployment which forces the first public aid to be extended lies behind the change of attitude towards migrants and refugees. In this respect, I would like to remind you that their integration into the labour market requires an average of eighteen years to reach an employment rate of 70% of the working population. Problems that are further compounded by a sometimes difficult social and cultural integration, especially in populations of Muslim religious origin, which under the claim of ontological or total security probably hides the fear of loss of identity. [[Rumors]] Migration flows are also endangering the Union itself by not being dealt with in a mutually reinforcing way, as one of its most... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u127	Silence, silence, ladies and gentlemen! [[Rumors]] I understand that some of your ladies and gentlemen do not come all afternoon, but when they arrive in the Chamber they remain silent. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u128	Thank you very much, President. Migration flows - he said - are also endangering the Union itself by not being dealt with in a mutually reinforcing way, as one of its most notorious victims is the Schengen area, since when the space of a State is closed, its borders react in a chain and so on to prevent transit flows from being embalmed in their respective territorial areas. There is a consensus that the implosion of the Union's Schengen area, that of monetary union or the common market itself, would call into question the Union itself, because these achievements are the most valuable in the idea of a European citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, in different European countries we are, as has been said these days, faced with Brexit under construction. Anti-European discourse is the discourse of anti-immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as this awareness and action of the Union do not take place, there will be the emergence of populist and xenophobic political groups, the electoral positions and the pressure on the states for their unilateral responses and, in turn, the confrontation between these same states; and humanitarian crises and those of our values will also be fostered, including the dignity of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither efficient nor effective for each State to nationalise migration policies. Global problems, and migration crises are, demand global solutions, coordinated and collective solutions at the regional and local levels, in which the principles of rationality, responsibility, solidarity, also compliance with the law, priority of vulnerable groups, seeking to ease the pressure in the host countries, in those of origin and transit, and an endless number of measures that I cannot spell out now because of the lack of time. I'm finishing up, President. The structural and permanent migration crisis in Europe obliges us to communitise migration policies and, therefore, this Basque Parliamentary Group will support the proposal discussed and because we also agree on nuclear matters, on values and on the dignity of people. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u129	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Merchán Mesón whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u130	We have presented a transactional by several groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u131	Thank you very much. The votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin. We vote, first, on the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to combat job insecurity. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 4 telematics votes, 343; 33; 298 plus 4 telematics votes, 302; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u133	Consideration is rejected. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, for God's sake. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the body amending Organic Law 1/1979 of 26 September 1979, General Penitentiary, for the recognition of the status of agents of the Authority to the officials of penitentiary bodies in the exercise of their functions. [[File number 122/00219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u134	We now proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic amendment to Organic Law 1/1979 of 26 September, General Penitentiary, for the recognition of the status of officers of the authority to the officers of the prison corps in the exercise of their functions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 4 telematics votes, 344; 252 plus 2 telematics votes, 254; 71 plus 2 telematics votes, 73; abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u135	Consideration is given to the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u136	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the debate. Firstly, we voted for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group to propose a state pact among all political forces in defence of the unity of Spain. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Socialist and Mixed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 246 against, 93 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u137	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON EUROPEAN MIGRANT CONTROL POLICY IN THE CENTRAL MEDITERRANEAN. [[File number 162/000490]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u138	We are now voting for the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal on the European policy of migration control in the Central Mediterranean. We voted for it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 213 abstentions, 127.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u139	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u140	We vote on the point relating to the direct and single reading of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. We shall proceed to the general vote referred to in Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure and which, in accordance with the second final provision, requires, as you know, the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the House. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the absolute majority of the House. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-06-19-CD180619.u141	The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1 was approved. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and five minutes in the afternoon.
