ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u1	The meeting was called to order. Discussion of the opinion of the draft Law on General State Budgets for 2018. We begin with the joint debate on Titles I and II. Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor in the Socialist Group's defence of amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if one characterizes the draft budgets that we are debating today, it reflects the ideological model of the right for Spain. It's a budget that's going to be approved by the People's Party, Titles I and II by Citizens, by the PNV, although not in the Chamber, UPN, Forum of Asturias and the regionalist parties of the Canary Islands. And does Mr Rivera still wonder how the Socialist Party does not support this budget for the right-wing parties in Spain? You still don't understand? If you want a quick course to understand, you can ask Mr. Married. Its aim is to shape an ideological model that reduces the presence of the public in favour of the private, and it is reflected in an anti-social, unjust, continuous and unbelievable budget proposal, a model of budgets that turns rights into electoral goods and into business, because pensions are a right, not a commodity; the existence of quality public services in health, education, dependency, etc., is a right of citizenship and should not be cut year after year in real terms with the excuse of the crisis. The Socialist Group wants to put the letters on the table from the outset. We demand that the Government fulfil its budgetary commitments to the Pact against Gender Violence, 200 million euros, Minister, not 80, 200 million euros. [[Applauds]] Enough to bargain for resources in the fight against macho violence, Mr Montoro. This isn't a bazaar to bargain with. This is very serious, there are 120 million missing - not 50, as you proposed - who are the ones we demand. By the way, an amount of 120 million, which is the same as you granted in the procedure for amendments in the Committee on Budgets to the PNV and UPN for irrigation, infrastructure and some trifle. It fulfils its commitments, is sensitive to this serious problem and equips the 120 million missing from the State Pact against Gender Violence. The budget is antisocial because the essential public services from which all Spaniards benefit, and those with lower income levels with higher intensity, see another year reduce their weight in relation to nominal GDP growth. If this increases by at least 4.3%, social spending will do so by 2.8%. That is why it is a fallacy to talk, as the Government and the People's Party do, about more social budgets. It is continuous and unfair because it continues with failed policies in order to more accurately redistribute economic growth. Today we have 2 million children in Spain who are in child poverty, more than 22% of the population at risk of social exclusion and more than 1.5 million unemployed without unemployment coverage, and our young people continue to be subjected to a system of precarious work where being a mileurist is considered almost a luxury and continues to emigrate to thousands, and without young people there is no future for this country. Also unfair because workers have lost income capacity; today the weight of wages on the total national wealth is at the level of thirty years ago, while we see that the profits of companies return to pre-crisis levels and the difference between the wages of managers and employees has multiplied in favour of those in a very important way. They are not only cutting the burden of total public spending on GDP to 40.5 %, the lowest since 2007, leaving a rachitic welfare state, Minister, rachitic. Not only does social spending on nominal GDP grow less, but they still do not place a stake in the productive economy to change the country's economic development model. And there is still a lack of commitment to education, active employment policies, R & D+i and those associated with productive sectors such as industry, SMEs, trade or agriculture. Their growth model punishes families. It should be recalled that throughout 2017 the household savings rate is 5.7% of its disposable income, two points less than in 2016 and the lowest of the last twenty years, Minister - it is also your business -. The budget is not credible because the Government has deficit targets that no one believes. It is no longer that the deficit target of the State and of social security - which depend on its government - is not met year after year, but that the European Commission itself doubted the overall target of 2.2% and brought it to 2.6% before the pension pact. No one believes their income forecast, which they have not fulfilled in their six years of government. In other words, they are unbelievable accounts of a government with an absolute lack of credibility. And citizens arrive and with a narcissistic and adanist discourse pretends to become the valour of change and regeneration; a party that does not change anything or regenerate anything. A party that negotiated €4 billion in 2017 and stopped executing more than 1200; now returns and repeats games that were already in 2017, such as the salary supplement for young people, expenditures on R+D+i that then the government does not execute or games against tax fraud, which not only does not execute but that above last year lowered its collection. That's right, they're still defending their neoliberal policy; they're advantaged students from Friedman and the Chicago School of Tax Reductions and continuing to reduce public resources for everyone. The cost of its tax rebates will far exceed EUR 2 billion, reducing the capacity of the State to redistribute through social spending and to have a fairer and fairer society. That of you Citizens does not worry, you are elitist; your right-wing model is radically contrary to ours. The Socialist Group has presented in this House an alternative to its budgets to turn as a sock to its ideological project of less state, less public and social spending, low tax revenues and social and economic inequality. An alternative to progress in modernising this country, which includes its digitisation and the ecological transition of our economy, betting on the improvement of productivity, necessary to generate prosperity from education, active employment policies, R & D+i and a new and more ambitious industrial policy; to recover the social policies that the right-wings of this country have cut and want to continue to decline in real terms; to remain in line with the most advanced countries of the European Union and to leave the tail van to which we want to condemn the People's Party and Citizens. Finally, it must be said that you do not comply. Not only do they not comply with pensioners, women, the unemployed, workers, or young people, but they also do not comply with their budgetary partners, and their citizens' partners know that. They do not comply with the investment agreements or comply with their budgetary agreements but, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they also know that their citizens' partners do not comply with their promises of democratic regeneration - and to the cases of the Communities of Murcia and Madrid I refer - nor with the demands of budgetary compliance to the Government, which remain in fireworks seeking more a demoscopic objective than an effective change. Gentlemen of the Government, you are not reliable and neither are your public accounts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u4	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the decisive week, when it comes to determining whether - even if it is a few months late, not attributable to Catalonia - the Spanish State has a budget or has no budget. In any case, whether you have it or not, these are budgets that have been submitted with some delay - as is usual - and that unfortunately do not meet the expectations with which we would understand that they should meet budgets to meet the demands that are being made in Catalonia. Once again, we are presented with a budget in which territorialised investment does not respect Catalonia, which is not a novelty of this budget, but that happens budget after budget. This budget is far from what its GDP represents, far from what its population represents, far from what any of the variables - or averages of these variables - that could be understood as reasonable could represent. We have tabled an amendment to the whole budget, but it did not go ahead, which is why we have tabled almost 900 partial amendments, some of which - something that happened last year - have been vetoed by the Government, which means that we cannot ban its debate - we have raised them and we have debated them - but we are banning their vote, and here there is a first distortion. Their vote is avoided, but some of these amendments respond to proposals on which we are working and which either in plenary or in the Commission have been adopted with the favourable vote of the ladies and gentlemen. If, therefore, the same amendment is tabled here again - let us put the VAT reduction of funeral services or veterinary services on a case-by-case basis - which was previously voted in favour and is now rejected, there is a great contradiction. The solution is for the Government to carry the dead, to veto these amendments and to prevent them from being able to vote, a constitutional right which in no other exercise, except in the previous one, had been exercised by the Government, since all the amendments were discussed and voted on. Despite this, we tabled and defended these amendments with interest and perseverance, but we did not succeed. During the whole procedure in the Commission, neither one of the amendments - either one is or one - was negotiated or accepted. We are keeping all the amendments alive and we are going to defend them. In some, we have reduced our approaches and asked them to trade them. These are amendments that have effect throughout the Spanish State, they are not amendments relating exclusively to Catalonia or to campaign amendments. Indeed, a few campaign amendments have been adopted and I think it is good; but, of course, they do not tell us when we present them that these are campaign amendments because in the northern part of the Spanish State there have been many campaign amendments approved; in other latitudes, because there has not been at the moment and that is obviously valid for the government and applies to those Members of Parliament - citizens' deputies like no one else escapes - who tear their clothes when some agreements are made regarding the financing of some autonomous community here and then, with their favourable vote, validate this funding of this autonomous community in the State's General Budgets. In any case, that is the parliamentary dynamic. We are going to try to defend all these amendments vehemently - if I may - in each of the different titles and sections we are going to affect my colleagues and myself and, although we have already come to the belief that this is not a good budget, we are going to try to correct it even if it is slightly. Mr Minister, over these three days we will see that this budget is not going to meet the deficit targets of the central administration and social security and you know it and are aware of it. This budget is not going to meet the promises made to the autonomous communities and local corporations. There is no new funding system for local corporations. There is no new funding system for the Autonomous Communities. And please don't say any more that this is a situation attributable to Catalonia. Catalonia serves as an alibi for many things, but the reality is that there is no capacity on the part of the groups supporting the Government, the People's Party and Citizens, to put forward proposals that are minimally viable. Therefore, they do not meet the deficit target, they do not meet local corporations or autonomous communities. They have rectified and comply with the pensioners. But, in any case, with whom they do not comply, Minister, it is with Catalonia. I will not tire them any more by explaining that in Catalonia there is little budgeted investment and less executed investment; but the reality is this. In the process of appearances, the heads of the Ministry of Development told us... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u5	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u6	We were told that we would be sent the data to believe that 83 % of the budget had been invested in Catalonia. We are waiting; these data are not yet coming. The data we have do not show this figure. In any case, they have time, we have three days: rectify and accept amendments or transactions of amendments from all opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President; with your permission. Good afternoon, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, our experience with the discussion of the draft general budgets present in this House today does not alter a coma of what Joan Tardà has already argued in the debate as a whole. These budgets are a point-by-point confirmation of Tardà's speech, which portrayed a vision of the exclusive and futureless State in its budgets. Joan Tardà told them - remember - that with your budgets you are drawing a state without pulse; showing them the very living current of Silvela's article because not only are you carrying the rule of law - or how little is left of it - but you are laying the foundations for the disaster: for a new 98 These budgets are made from the backs: from the backs to the working people, building an exclusive state with those less-favoured citizens. A growth in social expenditure of 2.8%, the least growing, given that 96% of this social expenditure focuses on pensions, is the most evident proof of the model of society to which you aspire. They are budgets behind the productive economy, with a hopeless future for young people, in light years of a new model of growth that is not based on devaluation by lowering wage costs. And we see how, in addition to investing in R & D+i far below what is considered necessary in Europe, they only execute 30% of the 2017 budget, demonstrating the value you give to science. These budgets make you the champions of the "that they invent." In addition, they are building a state of backs to the people, to the people of the Catalan countries, excluding with any real alternative of development to the model of villa and cut. And not only do we say this because in Catalonia they invest 40 euros per inhabitant less than the average of the state - a discrimination that, incidentally, is even worse in Baleares and País Valencià with 64 and 68 euros per inhabitant less - but because they are building a real desert around their capital, which will mourn future generations. In short, they are anti-social budgets, against the productive economy and against Catalonia and the Catalan countries. And some still wonder why we want to leave. To approve these budgets have needed support, the same as last year; support that is already beginning to draw the one that wants to look like a new and promising 'citizen' Spain. Analyzing some of those agreements, what do you want me to tell them? We do not find it particularly encouraging. Does 'citizen' Spain mean that the marginal rate of labour is spread to 62.5% for income between EUR 14 000 and EUR 18 000? For every euro, normal people, the ones below, are going to tax more than the millionaire incomes, the ones above. Is that your `citizen' Spain project? Does 'citizen' Spain mean to indecently expand and shield the tax benefits of investment companies, the Socimi, or lower the tax rates of online gambling? Is this really your proposal for an economic model for the future? What's productive about going back to the real estate bubble? What is productive, Minister, to promote the game? Does ‘citizen' Spain mean continuing to widen the fiscal deficit for some communities compared to others? Call it whatever you want; we call it Catalan countries; if you prefer, the communities of the Mediterranean arc. This does not change that the treatment of the citizens of these three communities is a shame. On the management of budgets, we have also learned how you spend them. In fact, we have been checking how budgets for you are not an instrument for implementing policies but a propagandistic element full of items that will never be implemented 100 percent or far away and with only an apparent accountability. The scandal of R & D+i investment is already known. Similarly, an annual propagandistic announcement of actual implementation well below, is made with the planned expenditure on support for SMEs, development cooperation, access to housing, culture, education, conversion and industrial development. This also happens in revenue items, when they collect for corporation tax, for example, much less than they had budgeted. The excuse in some cases is that they have been replacing items of expenditure with credits so that they do not compute as a deficit. With this, and more so at this stage of the course, you know that you are not going to execute these games. And Mr Montoro is happy because he allows him to accumulate a corner in order to be able to make the second great trap of budgets, which is just the opposite: the increase in military spending in the various sections of the budget of ministries, the excessive use of extraordinary credits and the use of modifications and extensions of credit. In short, Mr Montoro, it has already been said by the Airef - I open quotes -: A general deterioration of the forecasting accuracy. I mean, either you have no idea what it's like to make a budget, or what's worse, you write it knowing that you're going to get over it Olympicly, like this speaker. We will talk about this because we will see ourselves through the development of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u9	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Montoro. We began here the procedure of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets on the Draft Law on General State Budgets, that is, we continue to comply with article 134 of the Constitution. It is true that the budgets did not fulfil - and that is a responsibility which, in our view, is primarily the responsibility of the Government, although in this it has had much to do with Catalonia - with the deadline provided for in Article 134. However, you will allow me on a previous basis to thank the work that you have done in the Committee on Budgets not only Members but also the staff of Congress, the secretariat, the stenographers and the lawyers. And it hasn't been an easy budget, as sometimes happens. First of all, because we have had to adapt - and we are happy to do so - to compliance with the constitutional jurisprudence, which established limits and a qualification to the government's vetoes. It is the second time that the Government has vetoed the budgets, these vetoes are endorsed by the Constitution and by the rules of Congress, but it is the first time that part of these vetoes - which we have all described - have been lifted, either because they did not involve actual increases in expenditure or income reductions or, secondly, because they were not adequately motivated. The first thing I would like to thank is the work and common sense of the Commission's lawyers and, secondly, that the Government has accepted this limit to this constitutional power. It seems to me that we have made a great deal of progress here because, on the one hand, the constitutional instrument remains in force and, on the other, it has its limits, contributing adequately to the separation of powers. When these budgets are studied in law schools in a few years' time, this will probably be the most relevant of all. Secondly, and already speaking as a spokesman for my group, in a situation of serious constitutional crisis caused by the breach of the constitutional mandate by the separatist and absolutist majority of the Catalan Parliament and by the decisions taken by the President who elected the Parliament at the request of the fugitive and alleged offender Mr Puigdemont, I believe that Spain needs budgets and that, in these circumstances of implementation of Article 155, regardless of what the constitutionalists consider, we must support the budgets. That is the first and fundamental reason why my group supports these budgets. The second reason is that these budgets, like the previous ones, meet the deficit. Last year for the first time in a decade Spain met the deficit, and these budgets involve balance and political and economic stability. In addition, these budgets have direct advantages for more than 15 million Spaniards, who improve their income and income thanks to them. And we believe that the legitimate parliamentary dispute cannot be above the interests of these 15 million Spaniards and of all the others who need and want a minimum of political stability, especially because given the time frame with which these budgets arrive, if not, for example, the pensioners who have minimum pensions would not see these pensions increased by 3% but only by 0.25 % and would lose purchasing power. If there are no budgets, none of the more than 9 million pensioners will have an increase in pensions above 0.25 %. On the other hand, if there are no budgets, officials will have their salaries frozen, rather than starting to regain the purchasing power they lost with the governments of the Socialist Party and in part also with those of the People's Party. In short, if there are no budgets, 3.5 million Spaniards will not benefit from the tax reduction. By the way, Mr Capdevila, a gentleman who currently earns EUR 14 000, which is not exactly a high income, thanks to the agreement with Citizens, we lowered taxes, unlike others, such as the Socialist Party, with which the big companies, which make more than EUR 100 million, paid the lowest effective rate in their history in 2011 - that is Zapatero's inheritance and not only what he is doing right now in Venezuela, which is also a disaster - ; these people will go from paying EUR 60 per month of taxes to paying nothing and that is not the highest effective rate of any other within the scale of the IRPF. [[Applauds]] In Spain, the IRPF is progressive and will be more progressive thanks to the agreement between the People's Party and citizens and to the tax rebate that you did not share at first, Mr Montoro; we are glad that you have rectified because we have achieved in our budgets the most just, that those who earn less and those who hardly arrive at the end of the month benefit from the recovery. This is what we are going to achieve thanks to this tax reduction incorporated in the budgets. In addition, these budgets have many advantages, such as starting to pay some debts that all Spanish society had because the Police and the Civil Guard, which are two of the institutions most valued by the Spanish and which contribute to this being one of the safest countries in the world, will have salary equalization if there are budgets; if there are no, this salary equalization will not even have begun. And not only that, there are many advantages. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u11	Silence, please; silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u12	There is balance and political stability in a situation in which we urgently need it. In conclusion, I will say that 260 amendments have been incorporated into the procedure in the Committee on Budgets, more than 80 of them from our parliamentary group, which we will be going through during the debate in this House and we are very pleased that they are important work that has made these budgets better. For all these reasons, we will support these General State Budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u13	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u14	Thank you, President. We have already said on many occasions that these are budgets that are late and bad. They are late because, according to article 134 of the Constitution, the Government should have submitted them to this House three months before the expiry of the budgets of the previous year; however, it did not submit them until six months later, which is a good indicator of the legislative paralysis of the Government of the People's Party. And they're bad because they're not good for meeting the main challenges of our economy. As the economy has grown since 2014 between 1.4% and 3.4%, the benefits of this growth are not reaching the pockets of the citizenry and we continue to lead Europe in inequality and poverty, with almost 13 million people. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u15	Wait a minute, Mr. González. Ladies and gentlemen, please, the sitting is going to be very long and I ask you to remain silent; to keep it from the beginning and to keep it until the end and I hope not to repeat it in the afternoon, because you know that it is very difficult to hear the speaker and to know what he says with a deep murmur. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u16	Thank you very much. Yeah, we still have a little time here. As I said, we are still at the head of Europe in inequality and poverty, with almost 13 million people at risk of social exclusion, according to Eurostat, with half the unemployed without coverage and with a generation condemned to unemployment, exile and precariousness. However, growth is reaching the accounts of large companies, which have already recovered the pre-crisis profits. If the crisis was a scam, the recovery is a robbery, gentlemen of the government. In this situation, the Government presents budgets that continue to consolidate crisis cuts and reduce public spending and investment in relation to GDP. Ten years ago we were told that the cuts were going to be something extraordinary, that we had to tighten our belts to face the recession; however, today we see how expenditure on GDP has not only not recovered, but have brought it to 40.5 %, with a forecast, according to the Stability Programme that they sent to Brussels, of bringing it to 38 %, moving away from the locomotive countries of Europe and approaching the less developed countries. In particular, despite Montoro's statements, social spending on these budgets only increases by half of what the economy is growing, so they are budgets that do not serve at all to close that social gap. They do not even respond to the main demands transferred by citizens in this year's mobilizations. At the last moment they have incorporated an amendment from you and the PNV because of the transfer they have had to do because of the mobilizations they have been pushing for all these months, but they know that it is not enough because they have seen it again today with the mobilizations of the pensioners. Nor is it sufficient to comply with the State Pact against Macho Violence adopted in this House, of which only 80 out of 120 million are envisaged, and not even the entire 80 million. Therefore, they do not serve to respond to the citizen demands that have been moved these months on the street. Not only do they not serve to reduce inequality, they strengthen a model of low-cost economy, in which we compete downwards in wages and sacrifice productivity. This is what the European Commission reminded us last week when it pointed out that public investment and public spending are at the forefront of Europe's investment in health, education or R & D. Nor do these budgets serve to fix the structural problems of our economy by taking advantage of the momentum of the tailwinds, but they reproduce the mistakes of the past while the price of oil is expected to fall in the near future. Tourism is going to stop growing and at some point the European Central Bank will raise interest rates, as the Federal Reserve has already done. No one believes they can't afford it. It is not possible because we do not want to, Mr Montoro, because they combine one more year's income in relation to GDP with a policy of combating fraud and circumvention that is totally inadequate and ineffective, which allows large companies to pay half of what SMEs pay in this country. For all these reasons, because they present budgets that are in no way like what Spain needs, we present an amendment to the whole and alternative budgets, in which we teach them how to enter more to spend better, reduce the social gap and face the change in the productive model we need. We are now debating the partial amendments and my group has tabled 2100. Following the practice they launched last year, they have completely arbitrarily vetoed 250 amendments tabled by the opposition, including those on the state of income and those affecting pensions, with the exception of their own, although they have a content very similar to those submitted by the opposition. This says a lot about the arbitrariness with which you manage the vetoes. This is something that had not been seen in the parliamentary process until last year. What is new is that the Citizens' Lords, who supposedly came to regenerate democracy, we saw last year that what they really came to do was to join the People's Party in supporting the parliamentary blockade and preventing opposition initiatives from being debated. Titles I and II, which correspond to this intervention, define the procedures for amending the budget, and we would also like to take the opportunity to highlight the Government's recurring practices in the implementation of the budgets. The government, as we have already pointed out on some occasions, systematically uses budget execution to rig budgets with downsides that can reach up to 80% in education, in support of SMEs and above all in R & D. The most serious case of R & D reduction we have seen last year, when 2 out of every 3 euros envisaged were not executed, turning the R & D+i items of the budgets first into a farce and then into a tragedy. This contrasts with over-executions in defence, which vary around 20% and are repeated each year despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has already declared them illegal. These practices that you set in motion turn budgets into wet paper, as we see here year after year. Amendment 3554, which we have tabled in Title I, sets out the income estimates, which set out the principles of the progressive tax reform to be addressed in this country, introducing a solidarity tax on banking, a tax on big fortunes and a tax on financial transactions, eliminating the deductions to business groups, including the Socimi, which are currently feeding the rental bubble. With all these measures we could obtain EUR 11.5 billion directly, as we have already passed on to them in the whole debate. In this way, we could narrow the 8-point gap that separates us from the European average in terms of income. However, this amendment has been vetoed by the People's Parliamentary Group and by citizens. I'm finishing up, Madam President. These are the first of the 2100 amendments that we are going to defend here these days. We urge the parliamentary groups that have supported the debate in the Committee on the People's Party - Citizens, PNV, Forum and the Canarian parties - to leave their wooden arm at home and vote conscientiously to approve some of the amendments we have tabled, so that we can at least improve these budgets within the shortest possible margin. By the way, we also encourage the Socialist Group to speak and try to convince its New Canarias partner to vote conscientiously, as you have stated here in the debate at your speaking time. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u17	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As usual, I will make an overall assessment of what these budgets represent, since in these days we will discuss in more detail each chapter and section separately. These General Budgets of the State for 2018 are the consequence of the economic policy carried out by the Government of the People's Party in the last six years; six years in which Spain has undergone an unthinkable transformation for the vast majority and, of course, for the entire opposition, which has not yet been able to put into value the effort of the whole of Spanish society. That effort, together with the reforms of the People's Party, has received the applause within and outside Spain from all those who are not blinded by partyism, demagogy or populism. These General State Budgets are one more step in this process of transformation that we started in 2012 and that we could summarize in the following way. We have gone from five consecutive years of recession to chain with this 2018 five years of economic growth, the last four around 3%. We have achieved an extraordinary reduction in the public deficit, from 9.3% in 2011 to 2.2% with which we will close this year; an adjustment of €72 billion, which is said soon. We have moved from destroying 3.5 million jobs in the last socialist legislature to creating 2.5 million new jobs with the People's Party. We have gone from seeing half a million companies close in the last four years with the Socialist Party to, only in 2017, creating 108 000 new companies. We have moved from a brick-based economy to an economy based on the external sector and on the strength of our exports with high added value, which have grown by no less than 50% since 2009, from 22 % of GDP to 35 % today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have never exported so much, we have never done so many companies and we have never had so much weight in world trade as a whole before. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has been achieved by safeguarding our welfare state, which was at serious risk of collapse due to the policies of the Socialist Party, which have left the public accounts that support it in bankruptcy. President Rajoy's governments have pushed the welfare state as never before in Spain, to the point that we can say without fear of being wrong - because the figures indicate this - that these general budgets for 2018 are the most social in our history, as the consolidated expenditure on social protection rises to around 200 billion euros. Mr Lasarte, it is almost EUR 20 billion more than in the last budgets approved by the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, all of these achievements are not the result of improvisation or so-called tailwinds, as some people like to say, but are the result of an economic policy that is considered and adapted to the reality of every moment, successfully combining the containment of some expenditure where it was necessary to do so with the implementation of measures that boost economic growth and job creation, and all this without leaving anyone out of recovery. In this sense, the General Budgets of the State for 2018 continue along the same path. So, as far as families and middle classes are concerned, we continue with our fiscal policy, which is to lower taxes whenever possible. If in 2015 and 2016 we approve in solitary the biggest tax drop in our history, in 2018 we will again lower the IRPF for incomes below 18 000 euros and we will lower them an average of 440 euros per taxpayer. Mr De la Torre, in Spain taxes are lowered whenever the People's Party governs; whether it is Citizens in this House or not, the decisive factor in lowering taxes is whether it governs the People's Party. [[Applauds]] If these budgets are supported by this House, we will also approve tax aid that will benefit 625,000 families; I am talking about the childcare check, the extension of the large family allowance, the new deduction for disabled spouses and the increase in paternity leave from four to five weeks. Regarding our elders, we find pensions frozen for the first time in our history, and it was done by a government of the Socialist Party. On the contrary, the governments of the People's Party have especially protected pensions by raising them each and every one of these six years, and in 2018 they will do so especially. This will increase by 1.6% in general; the lowest will increase by 3% and the widowhood rate by 7.7%. As far as our young people are concerned, we have increased the number of scholarships to EUR 1450 million, Mr Lasarte, the highest figure included in general budgets, almost EUR 300 million more than in the last budget of the Socialist Party. We made it possible to lower university fees to more than 1.5 million university students, create scholarships of excellence, increase Erasmus Plus funding and include 500 million to supplement the salary of under 30 years of age with a contract in training, also improving their conversion into indefinite. And if we are talking about R & D+i - to which Mr Lasarte and Mr González referred - this government's bet is credited with an increase of 8.3% in its stakes, up to EUR 7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the economic recovery we have been able to present these General State Budgets, in which all expenditure items are increased: health, education, infrastructure - almost 15%, Mr Lasarte - justice, internal affairs, etc. All of them rise, except for two that are reduced, and that is the result of economic recovery; they are the items intended for unemployment, which is reduced thanks to the intense job creation of these years, and the item intended for the payment of debt interest as a result of the confidence of investors in our country. Let us remember that the risk premium, which measures the risk of each country, has been reduced by 80% since the rule of the People's Party. With this data I've just given you, how can you talk about cutbacks or jibarized state? How can the Socialist Group, which in 2007 approved EUR 50 billion less public expenditure than the current one, speak of a raquitico state? And if you prefer it in relative terms, how can you talk about a raquitico state when public expenditure in 2007 was 39% and in these budgets is 40.5%? Ladies and gentlemen, the economic model of the People's Party has managed to increase the volume of private investment, which measures our country's business health, by 31% compared to the previous year - a further sign that our economic growth is healthy and balanced - by combining domestic demand, the external sector and strong investment. It has been the economic policies of the People's Party that have made it possible to significantly improve the situation of millions of households. Not all of them, it's true, but fortunately, more and more people are seeing their personal and family situation significantly improved every day, as a result of the improvements in disposable income, making it possible for car sales to spread 11% in the first four months of 2018, for Spain to lead the growth of high consumption across Europe or for the Spaniards to allow us to travel 6.5% more than the previous year and spend 6.9% more on our trips. Well, in the face of this successful economic policy, the parties on the left are proposing that we return to the mistakes of the past. The PSOE and Podemos propose to us in their amendments an open expenditure and, consequently, a tax increase of 400 euros per taxpayer the socialists and 700 in the case of the populists. And what is more worrying, we are already told that this is only an appetizer, that they will not stay there, because their intention is to raise taxes by 40 billion in three years in the case of the Socialists and 70 billion in the case of Podemos. I should like to conclude, Madam President, by thanking the groups that are going to vote in favour of these budgets, because I honestly believe that we are doing an exercise of responsibility to our country. We thus fulfil the mandate we were given at the polls: to dialogue, negotiate, agree and finally adopt measures that benefit all Spaniards. Without a doubt these General State Budgets are positive for all. Ladies and gentlemen, have no doubt that with these budgets we are still improving Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u19	Thank you very much. We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on Title III. Mr Bel Accensi spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u20	Thank you, President. Lords of Citizens, I have come here to talk, essentially, about the budget. I have not come to speak of either President Puigdemont or President Tora or Article 155, but every time you speak of President Tora, President Puigdemont and 155 you will find a strong response. What happens is that you, who say that this is an orange budget and who talk about the orange supplement and the orange contribution, are ashamed to discuss and talk about the budget and, therefore, seek escapes, seek to talk about Catalonia, which I know you love. Mr. De la Torre, President Puigdemont is not a fugitive from justice [[Rumors.-Several Members: No, what's going on!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u21	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u22	Mr. De la Torre, listen, in case you haven't heard: Mr. Puigdemont has appeared before Belgian justice... [[Several Members: Ah!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u23	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u24	Yes, before Belgian justice. You don't like what solves Belgian justice. They have a problem. He has appeared before German justice. You don't like what solves German justice. They have a problem. I don't see Germans, I don't see Swiss, I don't see Scots, I don't see Belgians; I see Europeans. Do you want to be European? Well, get approved for Europe. This is what you must do. I will defend the eleven amendments - ten, because one has been vetoed - which we tabled to Title III, with very clear objectives; first, to defend the capacity for decision-making, autonomy and independence of local corporations and autonomous communities, as well as some other sector and some other activity. We have tabled two amendments so that the autonomous communities and local corporations can fix the pay increase for their workers. We might come to understand that there is a general top in the whole Spanish State, but those who must decide this increase, by application of their autonomy, are either local corporations or the autonomous communities. For a very similar reason we have also tabled two amendments so that the replacement rates are not set by the central government to the whole Spanish state, but that each level of the administration, either the local corporations or the autonomous communities, in the exercise of their independence, in the exercise of their autonomy - remember the Charter of local autonomy that they signed with the Spanish state - fix their replacement rate. We can understand that some tax rules have to be complied with, but once they are set, everyone can exercise his or her autonomy. It therefore makes no sense for autonomous communities and especially local corporations that are absolutely healthy and that meet all fiscal consolidation objectives to be set at a rate Title III replenishment. Each, according to its autonomy, must determine whether there should be such a replacement rate. We understand that at the moment there is no sense in the replacement rate in the local government or in the autonomous communities, so we have tabled two amendments to that effect. We have also tabled two amendments concerning the treatment of research, development and innovation staff, because, of course, you can fill your mouths a lot by saying that this sector must be favoured, that things must be changed, whether or not the budget appropriations that are not implemented are implemented, but regardless of all this, what makes no sense is that there are obstacles and limitations. We understand that, in the exercise of its powers, it would have to be in any case the autonomous community that set these rates; and we understand that in the case of research, development and innovation there should be no limitation on recruitment, nor obviously replenishment rates or limitations on the type of recruitment and on the remuneration of this recruitment, because we certainly cannot be competitive by attracting a talent that is, at the moment, drifting to other countries in Europe; some countries that do not like what their courts are resolving. We have tabled an amendment so that the National Commission on Markets and Competition, in the exercise of its autonomy and independence, can freely set out the broad lines of personnel policy, both in terms of the number of contracts and in terms of the remuneration structure, and it is they who freely set it. We have tabled these ten amendments, but we have eleven amendments, for which I ask you to vote in favour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u25	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u26	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Republican Left Parliamentary Group has tabled more than a thousand amendments to these budgets. They haven't approved any of us, but we're used to it. With regard to the title to which we now refer, our amendments have the following objectives: The State, by law, cannot impose a certain increase in the wage mass, but only set the ceilings for an increase. Thus, the General Budgets of the State cannot fix the increase in remuneration in the area of the autonomous communities and also in that of the local government. It is considered that, as a basic standard of concepts, each community and each Administration, according to their budgetary availability, would have to have sufficient decision-making capacity to self-organize. Therefore, all references to the replacement or non-replacement rate, salary increase or not, etc., should be deleted by invasion of competences. Therefore, in Amendment 3384 we call for the deletion of Article 19, since the fact that the replacement rates for staff in public administrations continue to exist means that the staff of the autonomous community cannot have the degree of autonomy it should have. In the same vein and in coherence, as a subsidiary amendment, we have submitted that for the 2018 financial year the replacement rate would be 100% in all sectors of the public administration, since recovering public services is one of the best ways of distributing wealth and guaranteeing a social state. As is well known, recruitment constraints are particularly severe for local government or, for example, for R & D & i promotion programmes applicable to universities, hospitals and research centres, which require, in addition to further enhancing the capacity of external research resources, to exempt these funds from recruitment constraints. Successive budgetary laws have largely limited the provision of public sector posts, in many cases resulting in reductions of up to 20% of staff. That is why we propose some exceptions to them, such as our amendment 3395, by which we call for a replenishment rate of 115 per cent not to apply to the State Security Forces and Corpses. As verified in the last quarter of 2017, the presence of more than 6,000 agents of the State Security Forces, National Police and Civil Guard for three months in Catalonia idlely, with the sole exception of attacking the civilian and unarmed population who wanted to vote on October 1, without increasing the rate of sinestrality in their communities of origin, indicates an excess of members and oversize of these security forces, so it is not necessary in any way to increase the replacement rates, but only to organize these bodies in a more efficient way. Another example of our proposals for amendments is that the general negotiating table in the field of public administrations should be used to negotiate pay increases in the staff of public administrations abroad or to ensure that the committee monitoring collective bargaining does not violate the right to collective bargaining in the public sector, as has sometimes been the case. Except as provided in the preceding paragraphs, in no case, and pursuant to Article 19 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, the minimum or single bases of any of the schemes forming part of the social security system may be lower than the minimum basis of the general scheme. In addition, in the case of part-time workers - this is important - the minimum basis for social security contributions for the different contingencies, as well as for the concepts of joint collection, may not be less than four hours a day in the case of contracts with a working day of less than 50 % per day or eight hours a day for contracts with a working day of less than 50 % per day. The aim is to put a stop to a practice already mentioned by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate and denounced by trade union organisations, the practice of engaging in contracts of very little working time with the aim, among other things, of reducing the costs of social security. Therefore, as with short-term temporary contracts, which already have a surcharge of 36%, through the amendment we propose to set minimum rates for part-time work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u27	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs. Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u28	Thank you, President. Since the People's Party came to the Government in 2011 and drafted the State General Budgets, our country has lost more than 140,000 public jobs, public jobs that are essential to sustain health, public education, employment services, benefit management, our country's research or immediate assistance and care for women, boys and girls who are victims of sexist violence. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, take advantage of the progress made in spite of your Government by the employees and the public employees along with the three trade union organizations that in some public administrations have been struggling to curb the bloodshed that you have imposed on our public administration with the excuse of the crisis. The problem is that, today, we have already lost 140 000 public, 140 000 professionals, that these budgets do not seem to be going to recover and that my group seems essential, so essential that among the fifteen measures that we present in the general alternative budgets to change the country are a rescue plan for science and for R & D+i, with which we want an increase in investment and the return of scientific talent and with a budget allocation of 1100 million euros, and a shock plan to put an end to precarious employment in public administrations and to open an extraordinary job offer in the State General Administration of 20 000 new places, with a budget allocation of 800 million euros. The amendments we have tabled to these public service budgets relate to three main axes. First, we want to eliminate the replacement rate and put an end to the idea that a state law, in this case the State General Budgets Act, has to set the replacement rates for all public administrations, both state and regional and local. We firmly believe in the decentralization of the State and in plurinationality, and this means recognizing the autonomy of public administrations to organize themselves within their budgetary availability and for them to decide how to apply expenditure, either in Chapter I or in Chapter II. It must be said, the replacement rate is a disproportionate intrusion into municipal and autonomous autonomy, even more so when the Spanish municipalities have been the ones that have allowed, saving 7 billion euros, Spain to meet the deficit to which Montoro committed itself with Brussels. A rule of spending and a particularly unfair central government interference for the municipalities of change, such as the City of Madrid, which has contributed 1113 million euros to the 7 billion that we have saved; the Barcelona one, which has achieved a surplus of 113 million euros; the Valencia one, with a surplus of 116, or the Zaragoza one, of 110 million euros. This should not be the case and, moreover, the General Administration of the State already recognized in July last year that it was necessary to skip the very replacement rate that had self-imposed itself a month earlier with the 2017 General Budgets. But as the People's Party, judging by its actions, is not going to allow it, we have tabled amendments to cover the most urgent cases. The first is to exempt the application of the rules on the replacement rate to municipalities with fewer than 20 000 inhabitants; to exempt the application of this replacement rate rule with respect to those obligations imposed by law and entailing an increase in the function, especially in the e-government and in the Public Sector Contracts Act; to consider within the replacement rate one hundred per cent of the staff assigned to R & D+i and not only to the medical research staff, and to ensure that this sector benefits from the 8% increase in the replacement rate. Secondly, we have proposed an extraordinary offer of public employment in the General Administration of the State to replace the destroyed employment since 2009; in the period 2008-2016 it was 41 226 public employees, 4249 if we talk about Social Security. In this respect, we have tabled amendments to incorporate an extraordinary offer of public employment which, within the three-year time frame, will be able to reverse the situation in cases we believe require urgent intervention. These are: the centres for the care of citizens and for the management of social security; thirty-nine offices of the Treasury of Social Security, which only have one employee who has to be a superhero because if it gets bad this office does not open - just think about the Iron Island, where there is only one office with one employee -; the air or maritime security centres; the different research agencies of our country; the Ministry of Culture and Sports and the penitentiary institutions. Thirdly, an agreement to consolidate public employment, incorporating guarantees such as considering all structural positions, whether or not of Chapter I, eliminating the requirement of uninterrupted occupation and considering all university staff. I'm finishing up. In terms of remuneration, we propose the opening of a specific negotiating table with trade union organisations to achieve wage equality in all areas of public administration and - even if the People's Party does not like this very much, or despite the People's Party - a 2.7% wage increase to compensate for the efforts made by public employees since 2010 while at the same time reducing the salaries of senior officials by 5%. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, it is women employees and public employees who support health, public education, employment services, benefit management, research in Spain or immediate assistance and care for women and girls who are victims of sexist violence. We are presenting these amendments and asking them to support them because to defend democracy we must defend public services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u29	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u30	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u32	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the fact that the public employees and their trade union representatives have succeeded in twisting Mr Montoro's arm with their effort and with their affection - it is a pity that Mr Montoro is not here right now - and to start an agreement to begin to recover the rights lost during the economic crisis, a crisis which did not provoke public employees, but which did not provoke the PSOE either. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, neither did the PSOE. [[Mr. Martín-Toledano Suárez: It was Zapatero!]] Zapatero's been gone a long time. You won the elections and the inheritance is already yours, because the truth is that the crisis was global and it was the public employees who paid for it. The measures taken by the Government in 2009 and 2010 were put in place as timely and short-term measures and you have made them permanent and structural, but it is time for the Government to rectify. We welcome the wage increase contained in the Public Service Agreement and respect it, but consider it insufficient. We will therefore ask the Rajoy Government to be brave and to go further in order to regain the purchasing power lost during the years of economic crisis by public employees. An increase of 1.75 % is important, but it is not enough. It is necessary to listen to public employees and we want the will expressed by the government to respect social dialogue to be enshrined in the Law on General Budgets of the State, so that in 2018 all the agreements that were declared inapplicable by the economic crisis are respected. Ladies and gentlemen, public employees are the true guarantors of the welfare state and are providers of public services, those public services which the People's Party so dislikes. Proof of this is the complicit silence of the deputies of the People's Party in the face of the loss of public employment executed by the Rajoy absolute majority government during these years. And I don't say it, Mr Montoro said it Mr Montoro said in 2013 that 300,000 public employees had to be thrown out because there was no money, and that's what they did: they threw out 300,000 public employees, 300,000 public jobs were lost because you, as I say, don't care about public services. [[shows a press release]] The first, before people, was the deficit, the second was the deficit, the third was the deficit and everything was the deficit. Or almost everything, because they also put the rescue to the people's bank. That is why we have tabled 13 amendments to this Title III, and in particular we have tabled seven amendments relating to the offer of public employment. In this process of reducing the general government deficit and containing expenditure in recent years, public administrations have seen significant reductions in their numbers. We intend to respect budget availability, but it is necessary to set a replacement rate of 100 per cent in general for all public administrations by eliminating the constraints set by the general draft of the State General Budgets for 2018, linked to the increase in compliance with the three rules of expenditure, i.e. compliance with the objectives of deficit, debt and rule of expenditure; that perverse rule of expenditure that has many suffocated municipalities. This limitation is considered unfair and discriminatory. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we call for a 150% replacement rate for the priority sectors of the Administration: education; health; control of the fight against fraud; lawyers and officials of the Administration of Justice; fire prevention and extinguishment service; research staff; science, technology and innovation; prison administration, personnel who provide direct care to users of social services; management of benefits and active employment policies; security and emergencies; State security forces and bodies. We want that 150% replacement rate for these services because they are fundamental to citizenship. We also intend to reinforce the principle of university autonomy, which must enable each university to define its teaching policy, provided that it is in line with the control of the corresponding expenditure. This would solve the problem of hired teachers, interim doctors and internal promotion problems within the university. We further propose that it does not compute as incoming staff the replenishment rate resulting from the reversal or rescue of public services for direct management or the integration of commercial companies or foundations into the Administration that has been integrated in the corresponding field. Mr. Montoro, stop interfering in municipal autonomy, leave the municipalities alone. That is why we also propose to establish an additional replacement rate for the stabilization of temporary employment, which will include up to one hundred per cent of the places which, being budgeted, have been temporarily and uninterruptedly occupied at least in the three years prior to 31 December 2017. In public universities it is proposed to include all staff, also temporary staff, because it is fair to solve their problems. And the autonomous communities must be able to decide how many resources of those allocated to active employment policies are allocated to technical staff for employment offices. The employment offices need technical staff; you believe that they are becoming empty, but, Mr Montoro, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, come and see the queues in the employment offices and come, if possible, without photographers because we already know what happens next with the photos and the hemeroteca. I'm finishing up, Madam President. We say to Mr Montoro from the Socialist Parliamentary Group that he agrees with the representatives of the public employees to recover the lost rights, that he should not forget the territorial administrations when negotiating or at the time of the financing that he must give them so that they can meet the agreements that you reach with the social and economic actors. Get out of your isolation and save yourself some new noises like that of the 35-hour working day for public employees, what a piece of paper you had there, who so much like to look towards Andalusia! What a piece of paper! It now fulfils its Government's commitments in the bodies of participation. It has been over a year since the Conference of Presidents was held and over a month since Rajoy's engagement with the President of the Board of Andalusia to convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. We continue to wait for compliance with the agreements of the Conference of Presidents and we continue to wait for a date for the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Don't forget what you agree; fulfill and equip public employees with the resources and rights that have been taken away from them, because they are the true providers of public services and the shielding of the welfare state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u33	I remind you that the time in the rostrum is a limited time, that the red light means - in case anyone has not yet learned - that the time is over. Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor on the position-setting table by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] Mr Ramírez is going to speak for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, as his ladies and gentlemen can see, although they have not transferred him to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u34	Thank you, Madam President. There's no problem. I don't have Mr. Roldán's fur, but I can intervene in this title. Let's talk about inheritance. I am very grateful when the members of the Socialist Group or the People's Group come up to this rostrum and talk about inheritance. They always remind me of a bad family that is struggling for inheritance: you keep it; no, it's yours, I don't want it. I think that once and for all they should be a little consistent and get to work on the important thing that citizens are. Mr Lasarte, let me tell you why we are going to support these budgets and let me tell you if these policies - we can do a test - seem right to you. Increase paternity leave: very right-wing. We increased it one more week and it's already five; a year ago we had two. He's very right-handed. Check for zero-to-three-year day care for families who cannot bear that cost, that early care we want: very right-wing. A tax reduction to the middle and working class, so that below 18 000 euros will pay less taxes: very much right. Salary supplement for young people, so that they can continue to study and improve their training and, in addition, have returns that allow them to think about a future and a life project: very right-wing. Of course, let's talk about the Cervera Technology Transfer Network, because when we talk about R+D+i, here people are dedicated to giving figures and percentages, but they don't really focus on the important, and it's on concrete measures. And what do you think of the mayor, that plan against dropping out and school failure? He's also very right-handed. That is why Citizens will support these budgets. That's called negotiating. You, of course, have your alternative, the alternative of the great captain's accounts: we are going to increase four taxes, we are going to raise 20 000, 30 000 or 40 000 more - you can compete with Podemos, see who is collecting more - and from there, make an alternative budget based, logically, on tax figures that are not currently approved and that we all know that you will never have the effectiveness you say. [[Applauds]] They speak of coherence and of the fact that, logically, other policies are being followed in the European Union. That's not true, Mr. Lasarte. No one follows the policies of the Socialist Party, no one. The most advanced countries are liberal. What we seek is equality, and, of course, you do not. Let me also give a couple of considerations to some speakers who have preceded me in the use of the floor. I find it very worrying that the Catalan parties continue to speak in those terms. Mr Bel, you know I personally esteem you, but, man, when a politician does not meet the requirement of Spanish justice, he is a fugitive politician. Just as he goes to Belgium, Germany, the United States or Australia; if he does not go to the Spanish justice system, he is a fugitive politician. In any case, returning to what we are talking about, these budgets improve the conditions of staff members. It recovers in part that axe that had been given to them previously, it recovers the purchasing power of the officials, of those public servants who actually implement our social and public policies. I mean, we're talking about our teachers, our doctors and, of course, our National Police and our Civil Guard. I know that for Mr Salvador some went to Catalonia to do tourism, he practically said they were idle. No, Mr. Salvador, I can assure you that our National Police and our Civil Guard were doing what they were doing was fighting and guaranteeing the law, security and the rule of law, and that is fundamental. [[Applauds]] In this title we have certainly been as reasonable as possible. We have increased, as I said earlier, the remuneration to our officials. By the way, it has also been agreed with the unions. And, of course, we must also talk about the consistency of the Socialist Party, which is going to vote otherwise. They praised the fact that they had reached an agreement with the trade unions, but then in these budgets they will vote no. That will have to be explained to the officials. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens have worked from the minute one to get better budgets, to make them plagued with orange policies, to remove these cuts once and for all. I would ask the other parties, which have not come out of the 'no is no', the 'we cannot' parties, the rest of the parties which do not support these budgets, to certainly have a negotiating spirit because that is the policy, as I said in the previous budget debate: the policy is to reach agreements, and it is essential in this House to reach agreements because more than ever the stability of the country has to be defended by all who are in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u35	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget for 2018, in particular in the area of Public Service, is part of a model: the model of the People's Party. Because, Mr Lasarte, we have an economic model based on three principles. And, Mr. Citizen Spokesman, it's a centerright budget because we're not ashamed of being a centerright party. I don't know if you guys feel the same way. He said that the Popular Party model that is based on three principles: improving economic growth, because without growth there is no wealth that can reach people; negotiation, because it was the Spanish mandate in 2015 and 2016, and budgetary stability and financial sustainability, because otherwise it would bring us back to bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, when the People's Party won the elections in December 2011, it did so with a commitment: to develop an ambitious reform process that would turn a bankrupt country into a successful country, an economy in recession into a growing economy, a country in which the only thing that was created was unemployment in a country that offered opportunities to the Spaniards. And at the end of 2011 we said that that would only be possible with everyone's work on that common project, but we also said that that effort would be worth it. And so it has been, because, ladies and gentlemen, they will have to acknowledge that Spain of 2011 has nothing to do with the reality that we are now living, and they will have to acknowledge that such a transformation would not have been possible without the economic policies carried out by the People's Party, because we do believe in the effects of good economic policies. I say this because this budget proposal for 2018 would not have been possible without all the decisions made in recent years, which today allow us to create wealth and that wealth reaches the Spaniards. But these budgets are also possible by the agreement, which in the case of public employees are the result of the negotiation and the pact with their trade union representatives. Already in 2017 the first agreement for the improvement of public employment was signed, which has made it possible to transform more than 130 000 temporary posts into indefinite ones. And the Socialist Group's spokesman, we do, you sign and you don't, because you signed an agreement with the unions in 2009 and the following year you lowered salaries to public employees by an average of 5%. [[Applauds]] And we continue to move forward with the new agreement signed for 2018. The first thing that needs to be stressed in this agreement is that for the first time the increase in remuneration is partly linked to economic growth and sustainability. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if we have learned from this crisis, it is that without economic growth and without budgetary stability public services, and therefore public jobs are unsustainable. In this way, the wage increase has three components: a fixed part, a variable part according to GDP growth and a part linked to the fulfilment of the deficit in 2020, and the wage increase can reach 8.79 %. But in addition to the salary improvement, which represents an increase of 600 million by 2018, this draft budgets also collects important reconciliation measures for the care of older people, young children or people with disabilities. In this project the working day is actually maintained in 37.5 hours, but it is envisaged that each Administration, through collective bargaining, will be able to set up other days, provided, of course, that budgetary stability, sustainability and the rule of spending are complied with, and that temporality does not exceed 8%, because you promise a lot but then the only thing you leave is debts and holes. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this draft budget also continues with the process of increasing the replacement rate, although in this case different scenarios are set according to the degree of compliance with the deficit, the debt and the expenditure rule, reaching 115 %. In short, in the area of Public Service, this budget is in line with our economic growth model, is possible through dialogue and agreement, and will enable further progress in a public administration that provides quality services consistent with budget stability and sustainability. Faced with a successful model - that of the People's Party - the PSOE and Podemos offer us another model that would lead us back to the recession, that in the matter of Public Service does not respect the agreement reached with the trade union representatives and that, if the amendments were adopted, would again mean bankruptcy. Because its model, which is reflected in the amendments tabled, is based on the general increase in taxes -80 billion in the case of the PSOE and 14 billion in that of Podemos - which would lead back to the loss of competitiveness and the destruction of employment. Besides, do you know what it means what you're proposing? With the alternative budget of the PSOE public employees with the same salary would have to pay 410 euros more taxes on average and with Podemos would raise their salary an additional 1% in exchange for removing 720 euros. That is, with one hand I give you 10 and with another hand I take 100. That's his model. [[Applauds]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party in this project is doing just the opposite. Not only does the salary increase to public employees by 1.75 %, but those with a salary of between EUR 12 000 and EUR 18 000 will have an average tax savings of EUR 440 that can reach up to EUR 720. This will give you a higher income because public employees, like everyone else, pay the salary after taxes. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The budget proposal for 2018, and you know it, is a good budget that will allow us to continue to finance economic growth and employment policies and that will allow us to continue to improve the welfare state, so those of us who continue in the no for it do not continue to reach out to them. They are still in time to move from no to yes, because we are talking about yes to Spain and we are talking about yes to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u37	Thank you very much. Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the debate on Titles IV and VIII and to Section 07, passive classes. In the defence of amendments, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u38	Thank you, President. I do not see Mr Ramírez at the moment, but you can convey to him identical affection and personal consideration, but my political and legal discrepancy with what you understand as a person who has not been brought before the courts. Mr Puigdemont and other members of the Government of Catalonia have appeared before the courts. Because this thing from Europe either we believe it or we don't believe it. [[Laughs.]] Yes, you believe very much in Spain, but outside of Spain you no longer believe almost anything. Because, of course, we are in the European Union and we are in Europe, and Mr Puigdemont, Mr Comin and Mr Puig were in Belgium and Spanish justice requires them through...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u39	Mr. Bel, I'm calling you, please, to the point. Thank you very much, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u40	Thank you very much, President. I accept the call, it cannot be in any other way, as long as you also call attention to the rest of the speakers who start talking about President Puigdemont, President Torra and Article 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u41	Mr. Bel, I'll call you back for the second time. Thank you very much. Titles IV and VIII and Section 07 [[Passive classes]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u42	Thank you so much. For the second time, Madam President, I am responding to your request. I have made a suggestion and I will certainly have gone too far, so I humbly apologize to you, but if other Members do, it would be advisable for them to be drawn to their attention as well. Having said that, we have presented...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u43	Mr. Bel, one second. I will explain to you, in case you have not understood, that the question is called upon above all when the time for a debate is repeatedly used to talk about another cause. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u44	We agree, Madam President, and I assure you that the debate is going to be confined to budgetary matters, because it was not this humble Member who started with allusions. He said that we have tabled five amendments, all of them vetoed, but vetoed by the veto approach established by the Government, because some were asking for exactly what was then agreed and obviously not vetoed because the budgets were not being vetoed. With these five amendments we wanted pensions to be revalued according to the CPI, which could not be, which was impossible because there was no money, and that there is a time when it begins to be possible because money appears. By the way, some spokesmen were afloat to another group that put forward alternative budgets on the basis of taxes they created and would never arrive; I would remind them that the increase in pensions, according to Minister Montoro, had to be financed with a tax that was not viable until a few days ago but that now it is and is going to be created, but it is not going to be collected. They are different measuring rods for the same question. We are satisfied that, although they have vetoed our amendment, we will approve what it called for: a revaluation of all pensions at least under the CPI. We welcome this and are not angry; we think that the system is not very receptionary, that it is not very receptionary for budgets to include in the negotiation for approval the increase in pensions. The increase in pensions should be established with the utmost consensus within the framework of the Toledo Pact, which was broken unilaterally and I do not know if there is a willingness to do so again. In any case, if there is will, there they will find us. On the other hand, an amendment that has been vetoed has not reflected budget in any of the agreements. This is an amendment that my group has traditionally tabled on the extirpated SOVI pensions - compulsory old-age and disability insurance pensions - which are very, very modest pensions of relatively small amounts and their main beneficiaries are women with very few resources. Well, they are not revalued according to the CPI or the revaluation index if they compete with other types of pensions that are also mostly - not always - very modest. What we want with this amendment is for SOVI pensions to be revalued in all cases, even if they are to go with other pensions that should also be revalued. We are not talking about an amount that is going to unbalance the budget and less in view of what has been negotiated over the last fifteen days in this House. It will not unbalance it because it does not affect many people, women essentially, and because we are not talking about an unorbited amount either. I therefore ask you, since you have listened to us with the rest of the amendments to this title, that this, which is the most modest we have tabled, although you do not admit it because you have vetoed it, should be dealt with by some of those who remain alive to favour this type of pension, modest, but very important still for a few women in this State. Thank you very much and I hope this transaction will arrive.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u45	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs. Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u46	Good afternoon. The truth is that this is an unprecedented debate. It is a budget debate in which the budget manager of the Government of Spain is absent; of course, 'greater interest' on the part of the government party could not show. It is regrettable that a Government behaves in this way. We have come to talk about Titles IV and VIII, the amendments which are nothing more and nothing less than in the area of pensions and social security contributions. I also agree with the criticisms that have been expressed, because this group has formalised 28 amendments and have arbitrarily vetoed us all. I am going to talk about some of the amendments that have been vetoed, because I believe they are of interest to all pensioners in our country. For example, to make some things clear, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, ladies and gentlemen of citizens and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is false that you are going to revalue pensions in accordance with the CPI, as the PNV has also warned in its amendments or as the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group has made very clear, which shows that only exceptionally will pensions be revalued this year at 1.6%, never in accordance with the CPI. That is, the trilateral PNV, Citizens and People's Party what it does is to turn off once and for all the revaluation of pensions in accordance with the CPI, which was a constitutional mandate and a usual practice in our country. This is broken and I'm sending a warning to navigators: don't ever talk to us again about the Toledo Pact. If anyone in this country has loaded the Toledo Pact is the People's Party, the PNV and the people's leaders. I insist that you don't give us another beating with the Toledo Pact, because it's just an excuse to do what you want and it gives you the will. The Toledo Pact was loaded in 2010 when the pensions were frozen. The Toledo Pact was loaded in 2011 when they made a pension counter-reform. The Toledo Pact has been loaded when the People's Party seriously attacked pensions in 2013. And obviously now PNV, Citizens and People's Party are doing exactly the same thing again. Well, we do not agree with your practices behind closed doors, with those gentlemen's pacts that you have agreed without transparency and all of you are away from the social majority and your current demands in our country. I also want to warn you some things. I suppose you have learned late and wrong that the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party cut a very sensitive issue, such as permanent disability. We will be paying attention, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because we already know that they want permanent disability; they have had to rectify it. But, gentlemen of the PNV, we would like you to explain to us and explain to the so-called domestic workers of this country's special household regime why they consume a new cut to these women with the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group to which they are going to say yes. Explain to us why you, in violation of the law of the Socialist Party, are going to delay the implementation of the integration of gaps for this very important group of women. Yes, gentlemen of the PNV, I know it bothers you that we tell you this, but it is. You're going to cut off a group that has a woman's face, whether you like it or not. Speaking of our amendments, we have emphasized two issues. On the one hand, what has to do with the constitutional mandate: to talk about the adequacy of pensions and the upgrading of pensions. On the other hand, Article 124 et seq., which deals with the problem of this country in the pension subsystem, which is its sufficiency. To that end, we are presenting a block of amendments that generate revenue. For example, an amendment to Article 124 of the Budgets Act - which has not been vetoed - in which we call for once and for all to eliminate the maximum contribution ceiling in our country, and there is consensus between the doctrine, the unions and the pensioner coordinators. In this way, as you know, income would be generated in the public pension system of more than EUR 7 billion. Well, they are still in time, they are voting in favour of this amendment by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. In addition, as far as minimum supplements are concerned, we set the minimum to be able to achieve this supplement at EUR 11 200 per year. We are talking about very humble amounts, but of course amounts that would far exceed the limit set today. Another example is that we set the limit on non-contributory pensions - those that you talk about so much about, that you are all day saying that you are up 3%, those of the 369 euros - to the interprofessional minimum wage in fourteen pay. I insist, humble amounts, but of course essential to get our pensioners and pensioners out of poverty. In line with this, we know that the fundamental sin of the People's Party's labour policy is precisely in the precariousness of our contracts. What we do in Article 124.10 is to introduce an amendment to penalise temporary contracts, particularly full-time contracts, but also those relating to part-time contracts. We find it more than necessary to increase social security contributions there. And of course there is a block of amendments aimed at economic subsidies, whether it is minimum income guarantee subsidies, aid subsidies for third parties, or mobility and transport subsidies, because, we insist, we believe that we are in numbers that are no longer small, but that they put our people in poverty. Finally, an amendment that has to do with something that you like very much: cheating. And they cheat on this particularity for which the People's Party has chosen to request a new loan of more than EUR 15 billion to cover the public pension subsystem. We call for this to become exactly a contribution from the General State Budget. Obviously, as far as widows are concerned, we call for compliance with Law 27/2011 and therefore, this year, the regulatory base is set at 60% of it and not, as PNV, Citizens and People's Party, at 56%. We increase child benefits in terms of both compatibility and amount. We also allow compatibility between non-contributory disability pensions with work. We're talking, as you know, about misery. And also, in line with what we are saying and in line with what this House has voted on, we call for this year's inter-professional minimum wage to be raised to 800 euros and, of course, that we raise the amount of Iprem as necessary. I'm done because I'm running out of time. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we certainly do not share in any way - as Europe is doing, by the way - the financing of wage supplements from wage guarantee income. I have a mandate for you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and also for Citizens and for the PNV, I am told by those responsible for the coordinator of pensioners who are not going to stop, who do not accept their traps and that for many games that you do outside the Toledo Pact you are going to continue on the streets as you have been in Bilbao today. And I'm done. Mr. Montoro is absent. There is a magnificent poem by Mario Benedetti that says: the man who made numbers and drew truths from them. The People's Party and Mr Montoro are exactly the opposite, not only do they not do this but they deceive Spanish society with numbers that will continue to lead to poverty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u48	Thank you, Madam President. The amendments made to the General State Budget for 2018 by the Socialist Group call on representatives of popular sovereignty to say what collective future we must have as a society; that is, what society we want to be. This Socialist Group proposes measures to guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners, to reduce the pension gap for women, to combat poverty situations and to improve the economic and financial system of Social Security with a solvent and feasible budgetary alternative, from an economic allocation to families suffering from child poverty, from the minimum living income to those over fifty-two years of age who have been interrupted by their professional career and who can therefore be found with broken careers and with poor pensions in the future, to full compliance with Law 27/2011 for widows and to be recognized as being in breach of what the People's Party, Citizens and their partners are currently doing. [[Applauds]] We're talking about women. And, of course, we also propose measures to balance the social security accounts and that Pedro Sánchez has already put black on white in January 2018. And it is that, gentlemen of the right - of the whole right - some of you who now, at times, are called Social Democrats or Liberals or any other title that you want to arrogate, the truth is that with these General Budgets of the State the reform of 2013 is legitimized, the unilateral reform of the People's Party is laundered and the keys are also given to the lords of the People's Party and citizens so that they continue to hide behind the Toledo Pact in order not to adopt measures that resolve the purchasing power of pensions: today, only the CPI. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these general state budgets do not guarantee decent pensions or a sound and stable public pension system. It is not a receipt that is stated in this rostrum, gentlemen of the People's Party and gentlemen of the PNV, that pensions will be raised on the basis of the CPI, because it is not true. They're being disloyal to the pensioners. They said it so proudly that I had to review my intervention, and they did say IPC. No, Mr. Bel, don't increase in the CPI, it's a mistake. It has treated pensioners unequally and in a manner that is unfair. Only a 1.6 is rising, which is not going to have a revision clause, nor is it a regulatory change. Mr Olano - what a pity you are not - I recommend that you talk to your minister and give him the report that in April 2012 put black on white that occurred the greatest loss of purchasing power with the absolute majority of the People's Party and not with Zapatero. Citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, is not satisfied with its institutions, and has rebelled. Day by day we're checking it out. How naive those who think that approving these budgets will not manifest themselves any more! These budgets are disloyal and dishonest with the citizenry, they are short-haul, they are short-timers, they do not solve the helplessness that pensioners are going to suffer in the future. These budgets are not supported, either by form or by substance. Because of the way in which the large majority of Members of Parliament are playing with the pensioners - in fact, the goal on the left that the People's Party put on citizens - with the astonishment of the auction of pensions; it is playing with its purchasing power and therefore it is playing with its dignity. And basically because they don't offer solid bases for the future. The social state is being jibarized, no matter how much Mr Olano denies it. And we say they're short-term because the government and citizens are buying a caramel from the pensioners. Gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, pensioners are not subjects, they are citizens. They are wrong about people, about citizenship, who have rights and want them to be respected. [[Applauds]] These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are a lack of respect for the intelligence of the citizenry. I believe I can say that the disengagement of citizens from democratic institutions is a reality. The gap between political and civil society is widening. It is therefore urgent to recover the affection of citizens, and this is an opportunity that we cannot despise. It is urgent to regain confidence in the public pension system as a first step and, secondly, we will continue with the other structural measures that Spain deserves, which is now asleep in this Congress. That is why we insist on the adoption of the Socialist Group's amendments and then yes, then let us return to the Toledo Pact as the democratic institution that has served to build our past and that will serve, Mrs Yolanda Díaz, for our collective future. Because the Socialist Party does believe in the Toledo Pact, it does believe in the public pension system, it has to be the flag that we all defend, indistinctly and without distinction of ideologies. That has to be the flag, gentlemen of Citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in line with what this Congress has been adopting throughout all the initiatives that have been put forward, let us repeal the 2013 pension reform and therefore recover the CPI and repeal the sustainability factor as envisaged by the law. Citizens - as you have already said - you, who were the adalid of democratic regeneration, are now squandering the debate in order to repeal the sustainability factor, a debate in relation to which the Socialists only raised is to debate and vote. That's right, all of you, pull back. That is what the opposition groups are asking and that you are denying us; you are doing it in Madrid and you are doing it here. How are we going to believe that they really are that democratic regeneration that Spain deserves? [[Applauds]] We have said this, we have adopted the Socialist Group's amendments, which mean regaining confidence and that means, of course, regaining the Toledo Pact. A year ago you, gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, of the IPC, were abhorrent; you were allergic. Today we are talking about trunk IPC. Four months ago, when Pedro Sánchez raised the alternative in the pension system, you did not abhor, but I think you came out with hives. But today Mr Montoro is already recognising a tax on technology. How curious! Mr Olano, look at the proposals made by Mr Montoro; that is, outside the general state budget; I understand that it creates some uncertainty. Anyway, let's talk. Today, the People's Party is recognizing that the system needs revenue, and that is the proposal that the Socialist Party has been advocating since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Look, this is a budget of occurrences; occurrences because of the disagreements they have had; of course, they have dislocated Citizens with the rise in pensions to 1.6%; it is a budget misconception because it will not control the deficit, which is already known today to be 1.5%, which we know, according to the economic memory of the system. Therefore, what is becoming apparent today is that they are bad managers in the People's Party. I'm finishing up, President. As long as there is a deficit in the public pension system, pensions will not be raised to the CPI. That's what the 2013 reform says. Well, the other day the Secretary of State boasted that a small deviation of EUR 1250 million was not significant. How is it not going to be meaningful if that condemns the loss of purchasing power indefinitely? These budgets, if we adopt the amendments proposed by the Socialists - and now I am going to finish - will allow decent pensions by repealing the 2013 reform; they will resolve, because they intend to resolve, poverty and especially children; they will fight persistently against the gender gap and for the female household workers who, as Mrs Díaz has said, are obviously the great forgotten ones and I do not understand how the gentlemen of the PNV can support this budget, and of course we will offer opportunities to those over fifty-two years old who have seen their future pensions truncated. Then yes, then we will return to the Toledo Pact.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u49	Mrs. Perea, I'm sorry, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u50	Yes, Madam President. Only then will we regain the trust and attachment of the citizenry because we will guarantee a social state. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u51	Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor in the position-setting round by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u52	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. With Amendment No 3399 we wanted to correct the serious injustice that the pact between Citizens and the People's Party on the State's General Budgets for 2018 entailed a slight increase of 0.25 % for half of the pensioners in the Kingdom of Spain. [[The lady]] Did the People's and Citizens' Party lie to us when they said that this year there was no more pension money, or was it their pension model or their social model? And it is that people should know that the right centre government of the People's Party and this new phalangism that is the party of Rivera, Citizens, with its bill condemned our pensioners, after a lifetime working, not to improve their pension without even being able to maintain their purchasing power. This is the case, only 0.25%. Go with the patriots! And it's easy to understand and check that mentality, you should only see the presentation of the patriotic platform presented this weekend by Mr. Rivera to understand it, his way of understanding life. Mr Rivera said that when he travels through Spain he sees neither rich nor poor, only Spanish; neither workers nor entrepreneurs, only Spanish; nor people who can afford multi-millionaire pension plans or people who are not entitled to receive their pensions from the CPI, only Spanish; nor a family that has all paid for having blue blood or a family that does not arrive at the end of the month, only Spanish, only Spanish sees. It does not surprise us, therefore, their budgets, their social and pension model, because they neither see nor will they ever see inequalities, they only see Spanish. They don't care that thousands of pensioners were protesting all over the state saying that their rise in pensions was an excrement, an insult, because Mr Rivera only sees Spaniards. We had to wait once again for the pressure of the mobilizations of the unions and the pensioners to defend their own, for a transaction between the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party, so that the pensioners of the Kingdom of Spain could at least see their pensions increased by 1.6%, and that there was no money. You were happy with 0.25 % of you, eh! In other words, what the patriot Rivera and Citizens had not achieved in the last two budgets of the state, the Basque Nationalist Party had achieved in a fold. It is the Basque Nationalist Party, together with the People's Party, that agrees on a re-evaluation of pensions, which, on the other hand and paradoxically, must be constitutionally binding. That's so funny! What the most constitutionalist parties in the world did not want to fulfill is achieved by what you call a peripheral nationalist party and the pressure of trade unions, which are not their friends either. Esquerra Republicana has always argued in the Toledo Pact that the problem of pensions was not an economic problem, but a problem of political will, and now they give us reason again. Republican Left has always said that pensions are not at risk, that the risk is that the People's Party and citizens' neophalangists will someday rule together, which will eventually add an absolute majority. That is the problem, because then the pensions will be in great danger, those of the poor Spaniards, of course, are more or less patriots. Fortunately, today they do not add up and today the Republican Left candidates defended in the Toledo Pact, are based on the fact that the budgets of the State must pay what is necessary, which their own Constitution obliges them in the matter of pensions and, if the contributions of the contributors do not arrive, they must be covered by the budgets of the State. This is our law and this is our way of seeing it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u53	Thank you, Mr. Salvador i Duch. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we do not go up to this rostrum to defend amendments to these titles and to this section, because we have not tabled amendments because we have come to this House with the duties done in this area. I rise to defend here this afternoon a favourable vote for these budgets, which, although they are not our budgets, as my fellow Members have said before, have a marked orange colour, budgets that bring, once again, as we did last year, stability in exchange for reforms, budgets with the greatest social expenditure of all democracy and where pensions, which is what we discussed in this title, already account for 41% of expenditure. In short, budgets that are good for Spain - yes, Mr Salvador, they are good for Spain - and for all Spaniards, and therefore they are also good for Catalonia - we will talk about this later - where, among other things, some of the things that the previous colleagues have said to me, important measures in the area of equality between men and women, in the area of conciliation, which are very important for the social security system and for future pensions, aid for young people - have already been mentioned - and a significant reduction in taxes for the middle class and for workers, especially for those workers who do not arrive at the end of the month and also for pensioners with lower incomes. And here I want to talk about Catalonia; Mr. Bel, Mr. Salvador - I have not spoken in the previous terms, over the years I have become disciplined and therefore I do not want the president to embarrass me, and I think that I have already told Mr. Bel in the Commission -, with these General State Budgets the taxpayers of Catalonia and specifically those who most those of Tarragona, the provinces that you and I represent, are the ones who will save the most with the reduction of the IRPF. [[Show a document]] Catalans will be the ones who will save the most with this reduction of the IRPF that Citizens have introduced in these budgets. [[Applauds]] We can continue to talk about Catalonia and investments in these budgets because, as I say, Mr Salvador - I repeat - if they are good for the Spanish they are good for the Catalans too. It is true that the People's Party has been abandoning Catalonia for a long time, but thanks to us an important investment has been made in these budgets for Catalonia; an investment that places Catalonia as the second largest autonomous community in which the State invests most, where sensible and strategic investments are given priority to unite, not to separate, as you both like. And to unite not only all Catalans but to unite Catalans with the rest of Spain and also to unite Catalans with the rest of Spanish... [[Mrs. Surra Spadea utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u55	Congresswoman, please sit down.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u56	...and with the rest of Europe. [[Mrs. Surra Spadea utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u57	Madam Member, I call you to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u58	No, no, if there's for everyone. Don't worry, I'll move on to the next one. [[Mrs. Surra Spadea utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u59	Congresswoman, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u60	As I say, to unite not only all Catalans but also Catalans with the rest of Spanish and also with the rest of Europe, through an increase in investments as important as the Mediterranean corridor. As I told you, these budgets are also good for pensioners, especially for those with less income who will see their pensions revalued above the CPI, but also for the rest of pensioners who will succeed, as we have always defended, in maintaining purchasing power in the coming years. However, here we have seen very angry spokespersons, for example Mrs Díaz, who - although we have seen her calmer - have even come to say that our agreement in these General State Budgets on pensions was an example of arbitrariness and political cynicism. I ask you: Do you really think it cynical that minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions should be raised by 3%? Does it really seem cynical to you that widowhood pensions rise by 8%, which has been in non-compliance since 2011? We don't think so. But what's more, Mrs. Díaz, if what you really want to see is an exercise in cynicism take your tablet, get on the Internet, tap Podemos and see the latest news and you'll see what a genuine exercise of cynicism is on the part of the leaders of your political party. [[Applauds]] I also wanted to refer to Mrs Perea, spokesman for the PSOE. From Podemos, a party anchored in populism and cheap demagogy we can imagine, but from you, that you are a party that has had responsibilities of government and that, moreover, you were forced - I know you do not like it - to carry the reform that has most lowered pensions to pensioners in the last decade, in the year 2011, it is difficult for you to say that with these budgets of 2018 it is dynamite and it is put in check the Pact of Toledo. On the contrary, what this agreement does is to give a breath of fresh air to the Toledo Pact so that it can make decisions in the medium and long term, which is what the Toledo Pact has to do. I also find it insulting to compare the measures taken in the area of pensions with a caramel. You said a candy, a gift we're playing with to the pensioners. No candy, no gifts, are measures that are going to make our pensioners retain purchasing power and those who are going through the worst have revaluations above the CPI. [[Mrs Perea i Conillas makes negative signs]] I ask you a question, as I also asked the spokesman for Podemos in his day: what have you achieved in this pension legislature? If you want, I'll tell you: you've got nothing. [[Applauds]] Besides, you were talking about taking care of the pensioners. I believe that it is the pensioners who voted for you who must judge who is taking their toll on you and why your vote has served during this parliamentary term. Finally, I want to say that we, as you are seeing, are indeed achieving changes and improvements, negotiating, negotiating, working. I will give you an example of this, because you are talking about Amendment 6768 and you were accusing us - you were also putting us in the sack - of eliminating the minimum amount of permanent disability pensions derived from common sickness, when this was an amendment by the People's Party, it was not ours. And you know why that amendment isn't there? If it is not because we have sat down and negotiated with them, we have told them that we did not like that amendment. Do you know how we got her removed? I tell you again, doing politics, that's what we're supposed to be here for, that's what we're supposed to be paid for by all our citizens and that's what they're supposed to expect from us. But real politics, as I say to you, politics for citizens and not politics of title, of media, of balloon probes as you do and which then remains in nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo Estaún. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Camps Devesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, how bad it is for some who are taking up pensions, this afternoon's debate has been a very clear example of this. [[Laughter]] Those who spent the day asking, when it is done, they spend the day criticizing it. Undoubtedly an exercise in unmatched coherence. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been some demonstrations in this afternoon's debate by some of you, which I believe are not the ones that relate to a debate on this subject, and I am referring in particular to the spokesman for Podemos and also to the spokesman for the Socialist Group. You want to make the pension a partisan battlefield, what we managed to avoid in 1995 with the Toledo Pact, and which, ladies and gentlemen, is more alive than ever - more alive than ever - you want it to stay behind. Some of you didn't know him. Mrs Díaz did not know what the Toledo Pact was, the common agreement of all of us to separate pensions from the inter-party debate, that our pensioners should have guaranteed their pensions, knowing that the political parties would no longer fight for them. What a irresponsibility to want to go back to those times, Mrs. Díaz! What a irresponsibility! The People's Party will always be in the Toledo Pact. We are founding the Toledo Pact, together with other groups that were represented in this House, and we will follow the Toledo Pact, because we know that it is the best guarantee for the survival of our social protection system; that Toledo Pact that some of you want to bury when you have practically not been in it, and that People's Party that you see as the origin of all the evils that may exist over our pension system and that it is the one that, with its socio-laboral policies, has allowed our system to now have more than 18.5 million members, a threshold that we haven't seen since December 2008, a decade. It is that People's Party that brings with it that the system today has more affiliates than in December 2012, namely 1,272 166. It is that People's Party that has managed to get this system to incorporate 592 081 more inter-annual affiliates. It is that People's Party that has managed to have this system accumulate twenty-one months in a row by winning affiliates at a rate of more than 3%, the best guarantee for today's pensions and for those of the future. From the lowest point of affiliation, 2,351,341 members have been recovered, accounting for 70% of what was lost in the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, employment is created above GDP growth in a large majority of territories and sectors of activity. That is why this is the best guarantee for our social protection system and not the measures that you want us to adopt with the amendments that you have defended here today. Mrs Perea, let's get on with it - and I say it to you in the most respectful way that can be understood - there was no loss of purchasing power during the crisis, except the year you froze the pensions, purchasing power that later recovered thanks to the People's Party and a government, Mariano Rajoy, who did not admit the rescue of our economy. As a result, because of the fact that the so-called rescue of our economy did not occur - and I say it again - pensions did not decrease by 20, 30 or 40%, as happened in Greece, Ireland or Portugal, but, quite the contrary, pensioners are the only ones who have raised the level of income during the crisis, more than 2%. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we are discussing the main part - more than 40% - of the state budget, we must not be led by opportunisms, demagogicisms or short-term electoralisms. These budgets initially provided for a significant increase in minimum pensions, non-contributory pensions and widowhood pensions, which, together with the reduction in the personal income tax, totalled 6,730,000 pensioners. Today, with the agreements already reached, it is the total number of pensioners who will see their pensions increased by 1.6%; those who receive minimum pensions by 3%; and the recipients - and I say recipients because they are mostly women - of a widow's pension whose main source of income is that benefit and who are over sixty-five years old, by 7.7% after the change in the percentage to be applied from the regulatory base. Undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest rise in this chapter of our recent democratic history. Not only are these budgets the most social budgets in our country's history, but also the most redistributive ones. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about anti-social, regressive, insecure or insolidary budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to some of the amendments that have been defended here this afternoon to demonstrate the lack of rigour of some of your ladies and gentlemen; one in particular on which we have already had the opportunity to discuss in the framework of the Toledo Pact, although Mrs Díaz should not be there that day and therefore continues to maintain positions that are not shared even by her colleagues. When you talk about the elimination of the maximum contribution ceiling as the great solution for our pension system, you are first and foremost wrong about the data you have and know that you are different. Do not talk about 7 billion more revenues, they are exactly, according to a report from the ministry that your lordship has in your possession, 4470.75 euros a year. But, of course, that cut-off from the contribution base was to increase the cost of working in companies by EUR 3728 million; to lower the disposable income of workers by EUR 742.49 million; to become practically, because you say that the minimum pension should not be raised as the minimum contribution base is raised, to create a new general tax on wages of more than EUR 45 000 by 37%. Your measures are inviable, unrealizable and confiscatory, Your Honor, so we cannot accept them. They also affect the contribution of the social security system. I know that you, Mr de Podemos, want to turn the contributory system that we all defend within the framework of the Toledo Pact into an aid system. There, Mrs. Perea, there would be subjects and not citizens. With us, with the Toledo Pact and with the budgets of the People's Party there are citizens who see how their benefits are improved thanks to the socio-occupational and economic policies of this party that allow our economy to grow by 2.7%. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets demonstrate the government's commitment to social spending and involve the pensioners in our recovery, by the way, a collective that has been protected during the crisis and, despite its harshness, has also helped the Spanish families as a whole with their efforts. The pensions were safeguarded by the Toledo Pact and the policies of the People's Party, they will remain safeguarded. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to return to the path that has brought with you the best stage of our social protection system, the Toledo Pact, and to take the necessary steps there to ensure that our pensioners are calm today and in the future. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Camps Devesa. We continue with the debate on Title V and Section 06, public debt. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the defence of amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u64	The Minister is still absent, he is spared hearing me say that he is unlucky; he is not lucky because before this debate on the budgets the Bank of Spain has just updated the data on the Spanish public debt, which reaches historical peaks: 98.78 % of GDP after five months up, moving away from the 97 % foreseen in the stability programme sent to Brussels. This includes a list of bad news. The debt of the general government as a whole increased by EUR 3371 million in March compared to February and stood at EUR 1.61 billion, adding five consecutive months of increases and reaching a record - a sad historical record - in nominal terms. The reality is that the central State remains the most indebted administration. Yes, the minister - his ministry - spends the day singing joyfully on the stern saying that the debt will already come down, that we have confidence, that this data only implies a slight fall, that we will have a recovery on the descending path, etc. As you well know, with you what is lost sooner is trust. In order to measure the strength of the economy it is necessary to take into account the public debt and, despite all that they are assuring us, the debt has continued to increase since the beginning of the year and you are still unable to control it. If we look at it from a more perspective, we see that since 2008 debt has risen from 35.6 to a maximum of 101.2% in the first quarter of 2006 and now at 100%. This level of indebtedness is unsustainable, as we only pay interest on this debt EUR 31 547 million, 9% of total budgets, above, for example, unemployment benefits. One thing, the CNMC estimated in 2016 that corruption in public procurement amounted to around €48 billion. If the Minister were to roll over and, instead of so much parallel statement by the menu ticks, go for the real chorizos, he would have 16 billion euros left. What if they try? This is where you have to thank Mr Draghi for the balsamic interventions of the European Central Bank by lowering the average rate paid by the Kingdom of Spain for its debt. If there is some light at the end of the tunnel - and let us hope it is not that of the convoy that is coming in the opposite direction - it is clear that it is thanks to the policy carried out by Mr Draghi, but we all know that the European Central Bank has already announced a future change in its monetary policy with the foreseeable rise in the price of money at the end of the year, which puts at risk all the forecast made in these budgets. We will see how long the stern winds will last, because in addition to the exchange winds that ring in Europe, the price of oil is already pointing to an alarming rise. The question we have to ask ourselves at the end is whether the forecast of the 2018 budgets we are doing is bearable. Will you hold this forethought? Is it reliable this time? Please send these questions to the Minister when he returns. In short, a debt that, in addition to the annual financing needs of the normal activity of the State, includes the debt produced by the bank rescue, more than 70 billion euros; the debt of the electricity sector, more than 30 billion euros; the debt produced by the construction of the AVE, more than 24 billion euros; the military debt generated by the purchase of obsolete armaments, which exceeds 30 billion euros. This is a set of debts that the State has not at any time allowed to be publicly audited by independent authorities in order to be able to know their details. While the money devoted to public debt remains contained in an infinite niche that allows to continue rescuing failed projects such as the Castor or various private highways, all social investments magically lose the capacity to finance by public hands. Seeing these budgets and the forecasts they are making in Europe, seeing who the Government of the Kingdom of Spain supports, seeing where you put the accents, the conclusion is that the state accounts are again made to the dictates of the companies of IBEX. And again who will pay for the broken dishes, who pays for the party, who pays for the debt we are the usual ones, the citizenship on foot, the one who does not quote on the stock exchange, the one who does not live to cut the coupon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila i Esteve. Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda. Title V and Section 06, [[Public debt]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u66	Pick it up on. Thank you, Madam President. This is reflected in the Ombudsman's report on the economic crisis and inequality: There is no political point in claiming that there is acceptance of an economic improvement without greater well-being and less rights. And he adds: This scourge can only be corrected if an active and determined policy of redistribution of wealth is carried out. We fully agree with the conclusions of the analysis of the situation made by this report and which I have reported. That is why we believe that we support the Government's commitment to put debt payments ahead of the social political needs - to which the budget will, by the way, continue to allocate a quarter - we believe - in the opposite direction. And the fact is that the public debt of all administrations has only increased in the last eight years, so cuts, austerity policies have worsened people's living conditions. There is growth, yes, but there is no sharing of wealth, and that leads to growth of precariousness and inequality because it continues to bet on a system - as much as the different spokespersons I have heard today from the People's Group say no, I will say it again - antisocial. The decrease in social expenditure is consolidated, I don't know where they come from that are the most social budgets; if we subtract the money for the payment of pensions, the cut continues to be consolidated, the decrease in social expenditure since Mariano Rajoy came to the government by 27 %. It is said that there is no money, although when the pensioners have squeezed them on the street, well they have found how to cover their shames. But even by doing so they have done so only by means of patches, delaying two years the urgent debate on the dignity of pensions, for which, first of all, we must bet on a progressive, equitable taxation that allows us to have the resources necessary to deal with social policies that allow us to put people's needs at the centre, in addition to betting, of course, on policies in favour of decent employment. Instead they continue to bet on collecting more VAT or IRPF, they continue to burden labor incomes, they deepen a distribution of the increasingly regressive tax burden. They continue to lower corporate tax, apply deductions for social purposes when this tax on business profits only collects two thirds of what the income brings to individuals. Moreover, they do not act as they should against tax fraud. One more year is maintained the decrease in the number of staff allocated to this, and it is a 10 % reduction. This would allow them to have more income, not to further fatten the defence budget, the secret services or the Royal House, or to trigger spending on infrastructure, socially useless expenses, but to increase investment in social services, in dependence, on equality in the necessary proportion. And it is that the Government does not even comply with the commitments made in the State Pact against Macho Violence, and conceals its little will by increasing paternity leave. The citizens' comrades used to breastfeed for this; I'll tell them it's okay to increase the paternity leave, but it's short if you don't get equal to the maternity leave, because you need both permits to be equal, non-transferable and also 100 percent covered. That is why in Euskal Herria Bildu we have also tabled amendments on income and quota this year, because we are not prepared to allow our resources to be allocated to defence expenditure, the Royal House, public security or penitentiary institutions, as well as to other structures of the state outside of Euskal Herria. As I have told you on more than one occasion in this Chamber, if there is to be solidarity between territories, it will have to be to make policies that act against unemployment, against precariousness, against poverty and against inequality, today existing and increasing, to ensure the provision of public services that defend all rights for all people in the broadest sense. And that is far from being achieved with these budgets, the main instrument of action of a totalitarian and re-centralizing Government that claims to act with the law in hand to deny democracy, constantly threatening the invasion of our limited decision-making capacity in case of supporting the right to decide to assist us. A Government that transfers the consequences of its wrong policies to other levels of government, autonomous and local, as is the case with the deficit. And we have said it more than once and we want to repeat it here today: we cannot be happy that it is decided for us in Madrid when we can spend or how we should be indebted, that they do so without taking into account our starting economic situation or the public policies to be implemented. We cannot give the priority of the control of the deficit and the bet on austerity. It does not seem acceptable to us that the State should continue to reserve most of the deficit when it is the autonomous communities that carry out most of the social expenditure and one third of the public expenditure, and that it should leave them, like the local authorities, with an ever narrower margin to act each year, despite the management capacity and the good results achieved in recent years by the institutions in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Nafarroa, in our case. These budgets do not bet on obtaining the necessary income that they make possible, with a different investment priority and putting them before the payment of the debt, to put at the center the interests of the whole population, especially those who are suffering the most from the consequences of the crisis. Therefore, I will end by saying that on more than one occasion Mr Rajoy, and even Mr Montoro, have come to tell me - they did the last time following the pension debate - that we have a model difference, and that is true. They are betting on an increasingly weak and small public sector, public spending on this budget is lower than GDP even since 2007, but that will, yes, enter less than they plan to spend, although we would have to see if they are able to meet those revenue forecasts that they have raised and that even the tax agency's own workers do not believe. Even the UN tells them that they have to put austerity policies aside! They sell them to us as the only possible alternative to the crisis, but that is not true. You can bet on another social model and you can bet on another budget model that will definitely put people ahead of debt, banking and economic elites. The Government works in favour of the latter. He's not our model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u68	Thank you, Madam President. We discussed the title on public debt. This is probably the title within the General Budgets of the grayer state. The President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority of the AIReF has already told us that we have a clear problem, because if our debt rates continue in the ratio we currently have, and it is almost 100% pink, we are mortgaged on the future of our young people. Debt, in absolute terms, continues to rise. It is only maintained because the percentage of GDP increases; GDP grows and, therefore, we reduce the percentage of deficit. In addition, we need to build trust, and these budgets do. This increase in confidence generates a reduction in taxes on debt interest. On the 2017 budgets, interest is reduced by 700 million. Mr Capdevila counted earlier, and this is something we fully agree that the 31 547 million we are going to pay interest this year represents approximately 9% of the budget and 3.1% of GDP. We must not forget that we are still under an excessive deficit procedure. Some groups want to continue to increase spending, of course with imaginary tax figures in which they are going to increase income, because what is clear - and this, gentlemen, is a bleak one - is that if we increase spending and no increase in income, we generate more debt and if we generate more debt, we will continue to mortgage the future of our young people. Of course, it is not what I want; what I want is to leave a future to my daughter, and I hope that my grandchildren, better than the one I have received, but if we continue with an increase in debt, we will clearly mortgage the future of our young people. The spokesman for Podemos, Yolanda Díaz, said that our pensioners do not believe our lies. I was talking about Benedetti - he's a lot more educated than I am - and I'm going to tell him something very typical, a very Spanish saying: the lie has very short legs. Cheap populism - the new one - and rancid populism - the usual - come together in this. They cannot continue to say that they are going to increase incomes through imaginary tax figures and that what we have to do is continue to increase social spending. We - forgive me - are much more likely to spend prudently, but not by reducing social spending, but by duplicity. One must make an expenditure above all by focusing on what is being done: doubles and triples in some of the administrations. [[Applauds]] As long as we continue in an excessive deficit procedure we can make an assimilation of public debt at our own pace, but, ladies and gentlemen, this year, and thanks to Citizens, who have put fiscal rigour in these budgets, it is going to come out of that excessive procedure. What we are clear is that we cannot have a debt that remains above 100 percent until 2050. The AIReF has warned us, Europe has warned us. We must work together to have stable and balanced budgets and to eliminate duplication once and for all. Only in this way, containing expenditure, but not in the social, but in the superfluous, will we be able to improve our debt ratio and finally leave a better future to our children and grandchildren. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez Freire. For the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to defend my group's position on Title V and Section 06 on financial transactions and public debt. Again, we have General State Budgets which increase the amounts earmarked for the payment of the public debt and the payment of the interest on the debt. Mr Ramírez, it's not how many millions less; it's 844 million more than it was last year. The current state of public debt in this country is serious and requires a number of considerations. Firstly, because of the burden it brings to the generations to come, where we have to highlight the role of the People's Party, always appealing to the inheritance received, but without taking responsibility for what they have been doing since 2011 in relation to this matter. Since 2011, public debt in this country in relation to gross domestic product has risen almost a third, from 70 % in 2011 to 98,7 % at the moment. That means, in absolute terms, more than 250 billion debt over these years. Secondly, the impact of that debt leads us to unsustainable levels. If we bring them down to the Spanish population and what that means in per capita terms, it allows us to get a really clear picture of what this debt means. At the moment each Spanish or Spanish owes 25 000 euros of that debt. Taking into account that the average salary in this country is 23 000 euros per year, each Spanish or Spanish must be more, in average terms, than what comes in a year. Thirdly, the division of debt between administrations demonstrates their effectiveness or inefficiency. Last year the public debt of the state was increased at a rate of 5% and at the moment already accumulates more than 1 billion euros, while that of the autonomous administrations alone, in quotes, is of 290 billion euros and that of the local corporations is of 30 billion euros. They mismanage from the central administration and charge their costs to the rest of the state. [[Applauds]] This is not something that concerns me or my parliamentary group. The latest report on the sustainability of the European Commission's public accounts said a number of very revealing things. The first, that public indebtedness in this country is beginning to be a chronic problem, that is, not a short-term problem, which is not going to disappear in the short term, but rather is set up as a disease. Secondly, over the next decade, until 2028, we are going to have a public debt of more than 95% and, in addition, the fiscal burden of public debt is going to remain above 3% of gross domestic product; that is, more than 30 billion each year will be allocated to the payment of the debt burden. Moreover - although some doubted it the other day in the Committee on Budgets - a total of ten European countries - including Spain - are at high risk of medium-term fiscal sustainability as a result of the debt burden and any adverse shocks - and among the adverse shocks is the tightening of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank - can have a very serious impact on the stability of public accounts. What is being done to try to cope with this situation? They have come up with nothing other than a tax rebate with the Citizens Party with consequences of a different nature. First, it weakens public revenue and then causes cuts to be made or consolidated in order to square the budget. Secondly, the budget is apparently going to take us out of the excessive deficit procedure, but all the study centres in this country and even the European Commission itself - this is absolutely unanimous - have proposed that it is not going to be complied with and we will therefore continue to remain within the excessive deficit procedure. Do not aim the bear's head before hunting it. Thirdly, tax reform - and I am addressing Mr De la Torre in particular, because I am sure that he will understand me perfectly - although he has reduced income for work and reduced the tax bill, he has brought the actual marginal rate on income for income between EUR 14 000 and EUR 18 000 to the highest rate in the world, according to the OECD. That is to say, a person who enters between EUR 14 000 and EUR 18 000 a year and who sees his salary income increased by EUR 100 - as a result of salary increases, working more hours or more overtime - will see that the contribution he makes to the State goes up to 62.5%; while a person with annual income above EUR 64 000 will pay taxes, in terms of the actual marginal rate, for these salary increases of 45%. This is how you understand fiscal progressivity, public finances and the culture of effort. On the other hand, financial expenditure on debt goes up to 3 % of gross domestic product. This year we will allocate €31 547 million to pay interest on the debt in this country. That may seem like a lot, but if it relates to other variables, it expresses a lot better the burden that this places on this country. It is going to pay more in terms of public debt interest than all the expenditure of the staff of the General Administration of the State recorded in the budgets, which amounts to 22 519 million euros; that is, we pay more for public debt interest than for the burden of remuneration of the officials of the Administration of the State. That burden is what really stifles our country and the growth dynamics of our economy and not the burden of civil servants' remuneration. All this, why? Because they engage in a misguided fiscal policy in which they put forward certain guiding variables, such as the deficit, and do not worry about putting fiscal policy at the service of job creation. I'm finishing up, President. In order to try to incorporate a little logic into fiscal policy in this House, we have put forward an alternative budget proposal that focuses essentially on the logic of entering more to spend better, which implies a progressive tax reform that guarantees the fiscal sufficiency of the state, that allows to correct the social deficit that we have accumulated and that transforms the model of growth of this economy. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u71	Thank you, Mr. Montero Soler. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I always like to start my speech on budgets by saying that it is the main debate we have in the House, the main debate of the year, because it is an integral debate, it is a debate in which all policies have to be dealt with and that is why we divide it into sections, in order to see the different perspectives of the different policies to be developed and implemented by the government. It is therefore a full debate, and it is now up to us to deal with the part of budgetary policy called financial policy, that is, how we are going to finance all the resources that are incorporated in the budgets; one of them will be with tax collection, but there is another important part that is financed by going to the external markets, by going to raise financial resources, and that is financial policy, which is what is discussed in Title V, Section 06. The data are aseptic and objective: EUR 215 billion of public debt will be issued, the level of indebtedness will be increased by EUR 40 billion, a positive net debt by EUR 40 billion. This, of course, has a financial cost of €31.5 billion, almost 9% of total budgetary resources, which means approximately 2.6% of gross domestic product. The questions for an evaluation of this financial policy are as follows. Obviously, the first would be: does this budget, with this financial policy, make us more autonomous or make us more dependent on the outside? The answer is clear: we are gradually increasing the level of indebtedness. The People's Party Government has found the easy solution to all the problems it has to address: call banking sanitation, public debt; call the Social Security deficit, public debt; call the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, public debt; call it a refund of the health cent, public debt. That's the solution. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is the drawback, they have created a problem that did not exist in this country. This country was left with accounts for 60% of the public debt GDP and, according to the latest data from the Bank of Spain in March, we have reached 99% of GDP. Therefore, we are increasingly dependent on the outside. What's that supposed to mean? For, of course, in the face of circumstances that may be cyclical or structural, we are very impoverished. We are witnessing with stupor a government in Italy that is creating enormous tension in the financial markets. Do you know how much the effect of this strain on the financial markets for Spain has already risen? For almost 100 basis points on the financial cost of German debt. This dependence has a huge cost, because that money has to be extracted, it has to be extracted from other policies, from social policies, from financing the autonomous communities, from policies to enhance justice and equality, from dependence. Any oscillation of the risk premium means greater impoverishment as a result of this greater dependence. Those who should not be free, and this Government is making the financial markets more debtors, less free, more dependent. That has to be known by the citizenry. And not only are we more dependent, but we are creating enormous mistrust on the outside. We have set ourselves the 60% debt target by 2020, and instead of reducing the debt by 2020, we are increasing it. At the end of 2017 it was 98.3% and in March 2018 we are at 99%. How will that goal be met? Attention should not be paid only to the public deficit, also to public indebtedness. The international agencies themselves are showing a huge problem. Do you know that Spain is the ninth country in the most indebted world, after Japan and the United States, and the sixth in Europe, after Greece, Portugal, Italy, Belgium and Cyprus? The AIReF says that with this dynamic we will not even be able to meet the established indebtedness of 20% by 2035. I'm done. What does this mean? That we're leaving a real brown to future generations. The deficit we have to cover, but the debt will have to cover future generations, to whom we are leaving the yard with this brown. The data are very significant : 25 253 euros per capita in debt in this country. [[shows a graph]] Do you know how much the socialist government left it? In 15,800. They have practically doubled the per capita indebtedness. This budget must not only be reduced because it does not address the country's main structural problems, such as the social security deficit, autonomous financing, tax reform or the decapitalisation of our infrastructure, but also because it has a harmful financial policy, which makes us less free, more dependent and much more indebted. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado Zurera. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The increase in our public debt in these years can be considered a good investment for Spain. What have we achieved with it? Mr Montero, taking responsibility, I will tell you that we have managed to have a more competitive country; a country with healthy and balanced growth; a country that looks at the rest of the world and that some countries in our environment are trying to imitate; a country that has recovered three quarters of the lost employment, that has recovered GDP, the incomes of families, that is reducing inequality and that is beginning to see how wages are recovered; a country that looks at the future with confidence and optimism, the same country that was plunged into fear and uncertainty when you, the Socialist Group, left the Government. It's been a very good investment. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, Mr Hurtado, the PSOE government generated some EUR 18 000 of the EUR 25 000 that Mr Montero and you are talking about each Spanish debt. And for what? What did the PSOE do after generating that mortgage for the Spaniards? Nothing; it left us a country in bankruptcy with millions of Spanish desperate and desperate for the future. Don't you remember? Ask your friends, your family what they felt then and what they feel now. You guys don't remember, do you? Be honest. Please, with the anguish in which we all lived and the confidence that is now in the future! That is the fundamental difference between you and us, an abysmal difference. And I don't understand the criticisms about the amount of debt that some people raise. Because, let's see, which groups in their amendments to the whole or in the partials have called for a debt reduction? No group, no group. This Congress doesn't want to reduce the debt! Don't pose! Therefore, their criticisms are pure cynicism; or what we usually see, is that everything is worth criticizing the People's Party, even asking us to do something that you would never do. Those who attended the meetings of the Committee on Budgets remember the image of our colleague Juan Bravo with a mountain of expenditure amendments and four income sheets. It was quite representative that the goal of reducing debt was not among his proposals. Thank you, Juan, I hope you will transfer that image to the plenary because it says a lot of things. [[Applauds]] This Government has proposed a smooth path of reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio, because we want growth, recovery and job creation to finance the reduction of the deficit to surplus and the progressive reduction of public debt. And we do not want it to be a reduction in spending; we need to increase investment and increase social spending, because this country has suffered a lot during this crisis and we need all Spaniards to recover as soon as possible the level of well-being they enjoyed before it. I know that you also claim the same; I have no doubt. The problem is that their methods are not adequate and those that we raise are, and they are being demonstrated day by day. Even, I think that's why the left has that obsession that we don't rule. They don't want it to end up proving that we're right and that we manage well. But I think it's too late for that; they didn't take advantage of the only opportunity they had in early 2016, and I think they'll regret it for a long, long time. At the same time, we have proposed debt management that reduces risks and brings benefits, because we know that it is one of the challenges of the future of this country, not only of Spain, but also of Europe and of the world. We must remember that we are on the world average of public debt and just over 10 points above the European average. The end of the European Central Bank's debt-purchase programme and the possible rise in rates next year will be an added effort for the sustainability of countries with high levels of public debt, such as Spain. Analysts consider, however, that this country is in good condition to resist the impact and reduce the liabilities of the Administration in the next decade. So, how did we do it? In various ways. First of all, reducing the average type of our debt. In 2011 it was 4.07 %; last year it closed by 2.55%, and this year is expected to be 2.5%. About 1.57% of the debt volume is a lot of savings money, almost 18 billion. Secondly, by extending the average maturity of the debt, by extending the duration of the debt; by taking advantage of the low rates at which we move to ensure that even if the rates rise we have the least influence, and that has been done these years. A few days ago, the deadline was 7.44 years; 6.51 is the one that was at the end of 2011, and at 6.20 we arrived in the first months of 2012; 20% more, 1.24 years of lengthening in these complicated years I think it is a management success. And, of course, the ratings of our public debt. This year the three largest agencies have done so and the forecast is that they will continue to do so. Not only do the Spaniards see the future clear; the markets, analysts and international organizations see it as equal and, therefore, our risk premium has been reduced from more than 600 points, which we had in 2012, until the 70 of a few days ago. The importance of our risk premium was told to us by the Secretary General of the Treasury and Financial Policy. The interest rate we pay has two components: on the one hand, the price and, on the other, the stress on the risk that the market understands we have. Now the guys are going up in the expectation that the official guys are going up next year. For example, in Germany, 9 basis points had been raised since December, while in Spain 35 basis points had been reduced during the same period. You say that the average rate our country pays for debt is a consequence of the European Central Bank. Well, no, gentlemen. Part yes, but the important part is because of good economic management and good debt management. The decrease from 600 to 70 basis points is more than 5% interest on a 10-year bond and the fall in rates of the European Central Bank is only 2% or 3%. The significant reduction has been thanks to the recovery and confidence generated. And to the tailwind adalids I remind you that we grew more than twice as much as the rest of the countries that had the same tailwinds and now they tell us that they are going to end, and when there are no tailwinds and let's keep growing I'd like to know what you're going to say. Why do the guys go up in Germany and down in Spain? Because they see fewer risks in Spain for the future. That is why it is so important to approve the budgets, the economic policy and the confidence that we transfer to the market. That is why we must thank all the groups that are going to support the budgets by giving in to many of their claims in order to achieve this. But I do not thank you on behalf of the Government or my group, but on behalf of all the Spaniards, because we are all the beneficiaries. Savings in interest, the possibility of extending the maturity of our debt, all that translates into money, money for investments, money for research and money for social spending. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will not accept the amendment as a whole, which I believe I have already replied to Mr Capdevila, nor will the partial amendment because, although we agree on support for SMEs, if we reserve a part of that fund for SMEs and do not compete, those funds will be lost. Therefore, we cannot accept it. We have tabled an amendment to ensure the management of aid from the European Social Fund, which is managed through the State Research Agency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Paniagua. We moved on to the debate on Title VI. In the defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Candela Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should go up to this rostrum to defend an amendment for the reduction of VAT to products which are of primary necessity to women, but once again the amendment has been totally arbitrarily vetoed by the Government with the consent of its faithful citizens' squires, who, by the way, have recently changed their glasses, gone to the optics of José Antonio and have come out looking at Spaniards everywhere, but lilac-coloured glasses seem to have been missing, because the feminist question is very flattering to you. In any case, with Amendment No 1031 we wanted to implement what is common sense, and that is that there are women's hygiene products and contraceptives that are of the greatest need, and there is no need to explain why. Today this type of product, such as compresses, buffers, etc., tax a VAT rate of 21 %, but why do they not tax 4 % or 10 %, such as taurine celebrations? In short, it makes no sense for this to continue to happen in this country. That is why we tabled this amendment, which, as we have seen, as it always happens, has been vetoed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela Serna. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u78	Thank you very much, President. I would now have to make some references to some speakers who have spoken about the issue that you cannot talk about from this rostrum if you are Catalan and, of course, I do not dare to do so, but you already understand me. Don't you understand me? Well, it's said. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I am not going to talk about Tarragona and the impact of budgets on Tarragona. I am going to wait for section 17, of the Ministry of Development, and I ask Citizens to give time to Don Sergio del Campo and to defend me the performance of the Ministry of Development in Tarragona, because I do not miss that. In any case, we tabled forty-nine amendments to this section; the mortality rate has been high, thirty-six vetoes. This tax has included the reduction of VAT to veterinary services which Mr Capdevila, quite rightly, managed to get this plenary to support it, but he sees that there is no luck in budgets. It also does not include funeral services, which reach the entire population, all Spaniards, all; it had also been approved in the Commission and did not prosper. So let's focus on the little things they left alive. One of them, 5882, is the reduction in VAT for benefits and services to the dependency, of those older persons who are in the residence and those older persons who attend day centres. It is true that there has been an amendment which has made some progress in relation to the previous situation - the amendment by the People's Party - which is absolutely insufficient from our point of view. We called for VAT to be reduced from 10 % to 4 % for all services and services to the unit. It makes no sense, as someone remembered these days, that a lady is paying her place at 10% and her roommate is paying her place at 4%. That doesn't make sense. We have tabled an ambitious amendment - from your perspective - so that all dependency services will tax 4%. If it cannot be, if we cannot arrive because there are many budgetary commitments to be met, especially in the northern part of the Spanish State, we ask you to trade this one that reaches everyone. To this end, we have facilitated a transaction: that all benefits received by a public euro, whether they are places of residence, day centres or related economic benefits, all those with public funding, are taxed at 4%. It seems fair to us. You are looking for equity and that all Spaniards, wherever they are, have the same treatment - it is precisely not Catalonia one of the communities that will be most favored by this measure, surely others more in the center of the peninsula will have more beneficiaries - and therefore we understand that anyone who receives dependency services and has public funding tax on 4%. I say this because the economic benefits linked are not the same in all the autonomous communities, some make more and others less and it makes no sense that where there is less contribution it is taxing 10% instead of 4%. Therefore, I ask you to pay special attention to this measure, I ask you to be sensitive. No one's going. Title VI to accuse that it is a measure that will only favour Catalans and, in any case, from our point of view, it will also generate more employment, it will generate more activity and it could even generate more revenue. We have also presented some of the few who survived the company tax and the modification of split payments. It makes no sense that in split payments it is not exempt from the split payment itself to those income that are subsequently considered exempt. If they are to be exempt from taxation when the tax is finally paid, the most reasonable thing is that when calculating the split payment they are also considered exempt. We therefore also ask you to vote in favour of our amendments. In any case, I would like to tell you that it does not make much sense for us to approve the GNPs and motions with the intention of not approving them later, at the moment of truth, as these budgets are. It seems to me more honest to tell the truth from the beginning and not to keep a double speech. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u80	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Our group has tabled 14 direct amendments in this regard, in addition to those relating to tax rules and new additional provisions, which we consider to be defended in the terms of their justifications. We have already commented several times that the fiscal capacity of the Spanish State has reached its limit. It is clear that you - those of the PP and those of Citizens - prefer to be in debt, increase public debt, and that it is so that all citizens pay the holiday, rather than seeking that those who have the most contribute to the realization of the social rights of citizens, for two reasons. On the one hand, because you are not able to delve into some taxes, so that you serve as mechanisms for redistribution of income or to avoid externalities, as would be the case with green taxes. On the contrary, you have practiced giving tax benefits to your friends or sponsors. The extractive elites find in their taxation the development of an economic model that continues to maintain the real estate bubble with the Socimi - now in the rent instead of the purchase - and promote the indebtedness of the people through the tax on the online game. I would be happy today if Minister Montoro, or someone on his behalf, would please tell me why you - Citizens and PP - lower the online gambling tax. Quid prodest?, Montoro, who benefits, who benefits from lowering the tax on online gambling? Let me remind you - and in parentheses - that you have also failed to develop Catalonia's regulatory capacity. I am sure they are familiar with, among other things, the resources before the Constitutional Court to stop the Catalan proposals regarding the tax on deposits of credit institutions, on taxes on nuclear energy, on the tax on Internet operators to promote cinema, on taxes on empty floors. On the other hand, you have your big black hole in tax fraud. There are amendments, not only ours, which try to make the activity of the AEAT more effective in pursuing the great fortunes, while the Minister devotes his efforts to hairdressing hairdressers. And now, if you think so, I will stop talking about politics, nothing at all related to the model of state or social model, to talk about the real problems of people, as you say. Because here you have your second weak point and if you do not tell me why you have been burdened with accepting the amendments the VAT of the uncollectable - Amendment 3403-. The VAT of the uncollectable is that those who suffer from late payment continue to pay late payment. The VAT on women's hygiene - Amendment 3405-: that women pay the maximum VAT for pads and pads. The VAT on funeral services: to die continues to tax 21% of VAT. Or the VAT on veterinary services - amendment 3406-, which I remind you that in this House, on 4 October 2016, by a majority, an unfulfilled mandate was approved, from 21% to 10%, last year. These are people's problems, almost half of Spaniards have a pet in their family and continue to pay the luxury VAT for veterinary services. In all these proposals, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and of Citizens, there is little nationalism; neither in one sense nor in another. There's a will to worry about people's problems. We still have some living amendments. The amendment of the tax free shopping that would benefit small shops of tourist populations; or the revision of the VAT of Taurino celebrations: curing a dog costs 21% VAT, watching six bulls kill it costs 10%. [[Applauds]] VAT on services to the unit: the previous speaker, Mr Bel, has spoken sufficiently. Energy taxes: excise duties on coal. I am tempted not to tell you what amendments I still live to see if any slips. Because I fear that the problem of these amendments for you is particularly and above all that of the proposer's member. It's a shame. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u82	Good afternoon. As we did during the General Budgets Act last year, we re-amend Article 72 - or we intend to amend Article 72 - of Title VI, and we come to ask that the reduced tax rate of value added tax, i.e. VAT, from 10% to 21%, should not apply to Taurino holidays. And we do it for several reasons. The first is of a normative nature and has a precedent in the land from which I come, the Canary Islands, where, as everyone knows, is prohibited by Law 8/91, of 30 April, on the protection of animals - leo -, doing lucrative business of shows based on the ill-treatment or suffering and death of animals. There is only one exception in this law that is the cockfight, the cockfight; but this activity, says the norm itself that must tend to its natural disappearance through normative mechanisms that prevent its expansion either by prohibiting the promotion of these shows by the public administrations, by not authorizing new installations or by not favoring the transmission of these hobbies to the new generations by requiring that it be developed in enclosed premises and by prohibiting their access to minors. This is obviously the canary regulations. State law, what does it say? For the state legislation specifically exempts in this Law on Animal Protection the taurino celebration, although the debate on this type of spectacle has become a constant in recent years thanks to the necessary increase of the animalist consciousness that our society has. However, public administrations continue to promote the maintenance of activities and shows that cause suffering to these types of mammals, which, according to a broad consensus of the scientific community, are able to express pain and distress very similar to those experienced by human beings. The second of our reasons is political in nature. Taurino shows represent a volume of income that is not too significant in relation to other VAT-taxed activities, which suggests that the Government's decision to maintain such activities in the budget law body is, of course, based on cultural, political and not exclusively economic reasons. On this last point, we want to outline the third of the reasons why we have tabled this amendment, which is cultural in nature. Our approach is clear, clear, we do not deserve at all the cultural body that has accompanied during our recent history to the Tauromaquia. In fact, the institutions deserve the attention of their multiple expressions, which cover certain areas of our society and which are manifested in the form of knowledge related to the breeding of bulls of lidia, the management of the ecosystem, and which go far beyond the benefits generated in bull stands and which would extend from the production of the material culture involving this type of practice to the intangible heritage for which they are governed. However, there is a part of the world of bullfighting that, as we have expressed on numerous occasions, requires extensive reflection, and this is the part that has to do with cruelty to animals. According to Spanish and European legislation itself, animal suffering must be extinguished, in addition to being persecuted and punished by the legislation of the Member States in all areas in which it occurs, including the case before us, which is the bullfight. The objective is to achieve the cessation of practices that are harmful to animals, and this is not a problem - the courts say or not - of competence; it is a conflict of rights that has to do with the abandonment of anthropocentric exposures that have eluded the compliance with standards that define animal welfare under the fine backdrop of culture, economic productivity and political ideology. In short, what we are asking is for compliance with existing regulations and for tax subsidies not to be granted to activities that, while reproducing under their present appearance marked by animal suffering, will not only not cease to generate controversy in the population but will continue to irreparably damage the most sensitive portion of our heritage, which is our popular culture, which is inextricably linked to our responsibility for the natural environment in which we live and to our ethics as a society. We hope that this time it will be good to admit an amendment that wants to join constructively in a complex debate, we know that, but necessary to determine the way in which culture defines us as a people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pita Cárdenes. Mr De la Torre has the floor in the position-setting round by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in Title VI, Tax rules; let's talk about taxes. Mr. Olano a while ago told me that the People's Party was always lowering taxes. Man!, after 2012 and 2013 carried out the largest indiscriminate fiscal rise in tax democracy is a surprising statement. [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] Because in addition - if you do not mind the spokesman of the People's Party - you were the only ones who lowered their taxes in your primary legislature, when you had an absolute majority, you went to the beneficiaries of the tax amnesty, and you also did so twice. [[Applauds.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived.]] First, 10% of what they had defrauded and then 3% in a tax amnesty, by the way declared unconstitutional. And then when you reversed that tax rebate, you did it out of control, big companies barely paid and then you had to raise taxes. By the way, there are tax breaks in which, forgive me, Mr Olano, it is complicated for you to attribute paternity. For example, the case of cinema VAT, which fell from 21 % to 10 %. Are you going to go up to this rostrum to say that that's a great achievement of yours? On the other hand, in this regard I have to admit that the PSOE and Podemos have gone crazy asking for tax increases. Indeed, the worst of all is that they do it on imaginary taxes or even when they do it on taxes that do exist, like corporation tax, they do things that are literally impossible. Finally, I repeat myself every year in this forum: demanding a minimum rate for large companies of 15% sounds very good but two thirds of the benefit of IBEX 35 is obtained outside Spain. If you set these profits, these dividends that these companies bring, a minimum of 15%, literally would not bring it and then nothing would be collected. Then I would beg that before making all kinds of criticisms be looked at a little - or slightly - the laws to see what is possible in taxes and what is not possible. In fact, I must also reply to Mr Montero that when surprisingly criticisms are made of the tax cuts we carry in these budgets, the famous effective marginal type, as Mr Montero did, they are only addressed to me, they are not addressed to the People's Party. Yes, it's a matter of... In this sense, all taxpayers, which are 3 million, who earn between EUR 12 000 and EUR 18 000, will be reduced in taxes. If they win between 12,000 and 14,000, they'll stop paying them. And if a taxpayer who earns EUR 12 000 goes on to earn EUR 14 100, he will pay much less taxes, he will pay EUR 62 out of the 100 that exceed EUR 14 000, but out of the previous EUR 14 000 he will pay nothing, and that is to pay 0.15 % of taxes, much less than Christian Ronaldo pays, despite the demagogic comparisons they make in his party. [[Applauds]] Why? Because you obviously have to pay less taxes. We therefore believe that these are reasonable tax cuts and that reasonable taxation stimulates growth and employment, and that it is also more progressive. It is that being against all this, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of Podemos, is against the fact that people who do not arrive at the end of the month and who have a salary of 800 euros must be the main pagans of the welfare state via IRPF, and we do not agree. [[The lady]] Then surprisingly, despite all the opposition you bring to tax matters, you devote all your intervention to talking about the VAT of bulls. I mean, is that the main problem this country has? We believe that it is not, and that is why we have achieved a small tax reform which, however, represents a great tax reduction of EUR 2300 million for those who are going through the worst, for those who earn between EUR 12 000 and EUR 18 000, for those who have a dependent spouse, EUR 1000 of tax credit in day-care centres and additional tax deductions in large families. This is in the budget agreement. But later, in our amendments, we have increased the deduction of business angels from 20% to 30%. Even, although Mr Capdevila does not know, we have agreed with the People's Party on the free shopping tax, that is, to end the 90 euros limit when the unestablished buy in Spain and ask for VAT reimbursement. From now on it will be zero thanks to the agreement between the People's Party and Citizens. We have even extended this exemption on intercontinental flights when they are scheduled in Spain, and all of this we have managed to do so by negotiating, that is to say, in that respect that you were commenting that you did not get any amendments, some of which we have achieved and are already incorporated in the text of the opinion adopted by the Commission. [[Applauds]] Mr. Capdevila was worried about the game. We have managed - and it is also in one of our amendments - to... [[Mr. Capdevila i Esteve: I have not told you, I have told Montoro]] Well, I would like to comment on what we have achieved, ladies and gentlemen, because it is certainly in everyone's interest: it is to increase the exemption limit for lottery prizes from EUR 2500 to EUR 10 000 this year, EUR 20 000 next year and EUR 40 000 next year. In general, a realistic, sensible fiscal policy that begins to return efforts to taxpayers and Spaniards who have gone through the worst during the crisis, within a framework of expenditure control that allows us to get out of the excessive deficit protocol this year. By the way, 2017, the first year of a budgetary agreement with Citizens, was the first year in which the deficit targets were met, and the deficit has finally remained in terms of the excessive deficit protocol by 3,07 %. In this year 2018, and no one doubts that, we will exit the excessive deficit protocol. There is no study that says that the Spanish deficit is going to be above 3% in 2018. Why? Because we make fiscal policy realistic and sensible and we get things. That is to do politics and that is what Citizens do in budgets that we will vote for because they are very necessary for Spain, but, above all, very convenient for many millions of Spaniards. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz also has the floor in the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u86	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this title refers to the new measures incorporated in tax matters to which, if we add all those that have been incorporated into the paper through compromise amendments made by the Spanish right-wing bloc, we will conclude that almost all of them, without going into detail, translate into less revenue. The only proposal for a new type of tax on technological corporations is made without this and without ensuring its entry into force for the same year. The Spanish right, the People's Party and Citizens, contribute to these budgets with the new incorporations to the patchwork of the tax system, making it a great grueyère cheese and weakening the welfare state's support. Its intention is to set up public accounts in which the percentage of revenue and expenditure in relation to GDP is reduced until the balance is reached at 38% in 2020. We do not say this, it is reflected in your yellow book and your budget plan, in which these budgets are framed, a percentage of public revenue far removed from the most redistributive and advanced countries, which have percentages above 45%, Mr Olano; this is how the percentage of public expenditure is being reduced. [[shows a graph]] Therefore, their goal is less state, less public spending, and for this they have to make believe that it is unsustainable. They say it's possible to lower taxes because Spain is doing well. And when it goes wrong, what do you mean? Let's get them back up? We already know that the most important adjustments in the crisis have been made mainly through public spending, reducing the rights of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, remember that the economic crisis has been international and it is true that the Spanish and Spanish have endured this crisis hard, but stop saying that it was provoked by a socialist government because they simply do not tell the truth. [[Applauds]] We do not share, ladies and gentlemen, that they lower taxes at a time of publicity, especially in election time, as they did in 2014. If there is less income, it is difficult to cover expenditure, it is difficult to cover pensions and transfers to the autonomous communities to meet health, education and social services and to meet stability objectives. They forget that the key is to have better taxes, to have a tax system that gets everyone to contribute according to their economic capacity, to exercise their function of redistribution of income, to discourage or encourage certain behaviors or facts and that we can sustain a welfare state to achieve a more just society. The block on the right, with its patches and its way of proceeding, all it gets is to let go of another new opportunity to address a comprehensive tax reform and that lower revenues, accompanied by new spending proposals, strain the fulfilment of the deficit targets for 2018, endangering the fulfilment of the commitments made in this budget. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if there is less revenue and the deficit targets have to be met, they will either not implement the budgeted expenditure or the European Commission will end up imposing adjustments. In fact, the European Commission and various analysts from different financial and fiscal institutions have already expressed doubts about the deficit forecasts, so with this picture there is more and more argument to doubt the credibility of these budgets. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we could doubt the credibility of the Citizens' Group, because we already know that they will not meet the first commitment that the Spanish right has announced for these budgets. It is not true what Rivera said; it is not true that in general terms the income excluded from the tax for 2018 is extended to EUR 14 000 per year. It is true that Mr Montoro did not defend it here, but the truth is that Rivera announced it, Rajoy ratified it and in the reference of the Council of Ministers you can see it. So the first announcement is merely misleading advertising, as the transitional provision in Article 63 shows. And we'll see, ladies and gentlemen, how many more announcements they're dropping. You citizens say one thing and the other. [[Applauds]] The Socialists, in the area of taxation, have tabled an amendment seeking better taxation of income, more taxing higher incomes in accordance with the principles of economic capacity and progressiveness. We intend to correct the 2014 reform of the People's Party IRPF, which has led to a reduction in income for higher income contributors year after year and which also has its effects on these budgets, undermining the progressive nature of the tax. To this end, we intend to modify the general scale of the IRPF, recovering a stretch that incorporates a higher tax for those who earn more than EUR 150 000, with the consequent technical adjustment in the deductions. And with regard to corporate tax, we have proposed a minimum rate of 15% for large companies and we propose the assessment and improvement of adjustments to this tax. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, every year the gap between accounting results and accrual tax is further widened, without transparency on tax benefits and consolidated negative tax bases. That is why our amendment seeks to prevent a SME from eventually paying a higher tax than a multinational. In addition, we call for the harmonization of inheritance and donation tax and property tax in order to avoid lower tax competition among the autonomous communities. Finally, we Socialists consider it essential to move towards a more environment-friendly society, and we therefore propose to introduce environmental policy criteria into the tax system, with coordination between the various figures developed at the autonomous and local levels. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we had tabled an amendment which we considered very useful for areas affected by pests. Farmers in these areas are finding it desolate that the fruit of their work is wiped out by control and prevention measures imposed by Europe and assumed by the Ministry of Agriculture and that communities have no choice but to run by starting crops and trees, as is the case in the presence of the tedious xylella. Through our amendment we wanted to clarify, as stated in the law in other cases of epidemics, that the aid resulting from control and prevention measures were not subject to the IRPF, but incomprehensiblely it has been vetoed, preventing its vote, for assuming less income; a veto that we do not share. It is true that vetoing amendments is a power conferred on the Government by the Spanish Constitution, but its use in the terms in which it is done is arbitrary and capricious. Only the amendments negotiated by the People's and Citizens' Group must be seen to show that they involve further income reductions and that, however, they have not been vetoed. Madam President, to conclude and sum up, the Socialist Group considers that these budgets do not contribute to strengthening the tax system. They further undermine the capacity of the State to collect money. Some of the measures announced will not have full effect in 2018, such as reductions and disability deductions. Progressivity of the IRPF remains unrecovered. They do not introduce improvements to ensure that companies have a similar fiscal effort on the basis of their economic capacity. Finally, there are more than reasonable doubts about meeting the deficit targets, so it may happen that after all this debate these budgets are left on wet paper, so I think there are more than enough reasons to vote against them. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u87	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are currently debating Title VI which, as you know, corresponds to tax rules. It is the budget section that most clearly differentiates the People's Party from other political groups and reflects what our tax policy is and what our fiscal philosophy is. Dealing with bulls, as the representative of Podemos has done, will affect us in another debate, but in a debate on the General Budgets of the State, which is the most important law being dealt with in this Parliament, it does not seem to me serious, because tax policy cannot be broken. Tax policy is part of a whole and is a fundamental axis of economic policy. Our fiscal philosophy, as these budgets reflect, is to continue to lower taxes on Spaniards so that families and entrepreneurs continue to have more resources to spend, to invest, to save or to continue to grow in their entrepreneurial project generating employment. It is the virtuous circle generated by the policies of the People's Party in the face of the diabolical circle proposed to us by the left represented in this Chamber, with amendments tabled to these budgets which involve a rise in taxes to the Spaniards of more than 8 billion in the case of the Socialist Party or of more than 14 000 in the case of Podemos. The Socialist Group proposes to us measures that mean an average increase for the Spanish of 410 euros per taxpayer and We can an average increase of 720 euros per taxpayer not only through tax rate increases, but also with the creation of new taxes that, in theory, are only for the rich, but we all know who we end up paying those taxes. By the way, gentlemen of Podemos, could you clarify to us today what is the threshold you set for considering a person rich? Does anyone who has a house in the mountains of Madrid of more than 600 000 euros consider himself rich and will pay those taxes to the great fortunes or not? [[Applauds]] These tax increases that you propose would only generate general impoverishment of Spanish society, generating more unemployment, more debt and more deficit, which is what the left can do very well when it governs Spain: spreading poverty instead of generating economic activity and employment. We, on the other hand, believe that we have to lower taxes. That's how we did it in 2015, sir. From the Tower, even if you try to deny it, lowering the IRPF to 19.5 million Spaniards with an average discount of 470 euros and leaving in the pocket of the Spaniards more than 9.3 billion euros, and we continue to do so in these budgets, in which we include measures that benefit more than 3 million taxpayers - more than 1 million of them pensioners - with an estimated impact of 2 billion euros and an average saving of 440 euros. In addition, new tax subsidies are included for families benefiting more than 625,000 Spanish families with three new cheques that also facilitate the reconciliation of family and work life: the child-care check, the one of large families and the one of dependent spouses with disabilities. Also, gentlemen of Citizens, we lower the cinema VAT from 21 % to 10 % because we fulfill our commitments to Citizens and that is part of our pact, but, gentlemen of Citizens, stop putting on medals, because to win the marathon you cannot join in the last kilometer, you have to sweat the shirt all the race. [[Applauds]] Faced with the model proposed by the tax hike left, we continue to bet on these budgets for lowering taxes on families and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the revenue estimate accompanying these budgets is evolving very favourably, mainly because of the positive effect of economic growth and the continuous improvement of the tax bases. They are income forecasts that allow us to meet the commitments made by this government, such as the commitment of the People's Party to continue to lower taxes on the Spanish whenever possible. It also enables us to comply with the agreements we have signed with social actors and public officials; to meet our young people by lowering university fees and raising scholarships; to meet our older ones by raising pensions; to meet the most vulnerable groups with the amounts intended for family protection and the fight against child poverty; and to meet the autonomous communities and municipalities by improving their funding by an additional €42 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the People's Party can fulfil these commitments because the collection is increasing year after year with more economic activity, more employment and less taxation. We chained up four years of economic growth and job creation and continued to work to bring that recovery to millions of Spanish families. That is why the Government hopes that it will be able to carry out these general budgets, which will be very positive for all Spaniards; more than 15 million Spaniards will see their incomes improved - that is our objective - for example pensioners and officials, and more than 3 million Spaniards, who earn between 12 000 and 18 000 euros, will pay less taxes. So what is it that you don't like to the left of these budgets? Because I don't think they've explained it yet in this rostrum. That they're from a PP government, that's what they don't like? Or do you not like that we benefit 15 million Spaniards with these budgets? Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, approval does not depend solely on the People's Party because parliamentary arithmetic is what it is. For this reason, amendments have been negotiated with other political groups that improve these budgets in their parliamentary process, and the result of that dialogue and agreement with other political forces, such as Citizens, whom we welcome from here, as well as the other political forces that are going to support these budgets, we have made important amendments to improve the lives of Spanish families and businesses, and we want to highlight today for their importance two that we have incorporated. The first is for the small trade in tourist areas; to remove the current limit of EUR 90 per invoice so that the non-Community tourist can request the refund of VAT on his purchases; and the second so that tele-assistance services, home help, day and night centre and residential care to people in a situation of dependency can tax the reduced rate of 4%. We appreciate those support. The Socialist Group must explain why it has not even wanted to negotiate these budgets and should clarify its contribution to the general interests of the Spaniards. I'm closing up. With the approval of these budgets we have an opportunity to continue to do things right, to continue to grow and create jobs; that is why I ask you to be responsible by giving your support to these budgets, which are good for Spain. With the approval of these budgets today we can compensate so many Spaniards who have made a lot of efforts throughout this harsh economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u89	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate on Title VII. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, is taking part in the defence of amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Our group has tabled five amendments... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u91	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u92	Thank you, President. Our group has tabled five amendments in this respect. Two of these five amendments were vetoed, but could have been dispensed with at five if the commitments had been met. If these budgets had incorporated those commitments set by Minister Montoro four years ago in this House and in the Senate regarding the reform of the financing of local corporations, if the commitments of the reform of the financing of the autonomous communities had been fulfilled, these five amendments would certainly not have been right, but as for the fourth consecutive year budgets are adopted without fulfilling the commitments with the autonomous communities and local corporations, we are submitting these amendments. There is no need for any spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group to come up to this rostrum to tell me that nowhere was it written that the financing of the autonomous communities had to be reformed at the age of five, and nowhere was it written that the financing of local corporations had to be reformed. And I say to you that it was written; it had been said by a member of the Government of Spain from this rostrum and from the rostrum of the Senate. There was therefore a political commitment that when the economic situation of the Spanish State as a whole improved, these challenges would be faced, but the reality is that they have not been met. A working commission was made, but there is no political will to deal with the financing of local corporations or autonomous communities. Don't say Catalonia is the excuse, Catalonia is the problem. No, no, you're the problem. Take a proposal to finance local corporations and autonomous communities to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, bring a proposal to the Congress of Deputies, bring a proposal to the Senate. Otherwise, we have to present these amendments. We have been vetoed as normal that the fund for the financing of public transport for those municipalities with more than fifty thousand inhabitants could be increased from 51 million to 75 million. Look at the amount! This fund has been frozen since 2012. Me, me, me, me, Title VII says: This is an increase in spending. But when some of the government's partners table amendments to increase contributions to the Metropolitan Transport Authority of Barcelona, Madrid or Valencia, apart from withdrawing that of Barcelona, there is no veto. It is not understood why there is an increase in the fund to finance public transport in municipalities larger than fifty thousand inhabitants other than these three and for these three there is no veto, beyond that Citizens the Barcelona one trades it and withdraws it. It is therefore an amendment that we already know is not going to prosper. We have also tabled an amendment to create a specific funding fund for municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants that do not reach EUR 149 per capita and have a certain tax effort rate. We think it's reasonable. In its day there was an agreement between the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Government of the Spanish State for this purpose, but it has not materialized and we understand that it should materialize. We have also tabled amendments that seek to reform the functioning of the global sufficiency funds of the autonomous communities, which would not have to be reformed if the autonomous financing system had been reformed. As in other titles I maintain a certain hope, with those related to local corporations and autonomous communities I must tell you that I do not keep any expectations. As much as they come up here and say that in these budgets there is an increase of 4 billion for the autonomous communities... All they've done is apply the Lofca and that Lofca deal that was so criticized from their ranks and that we don't support. They lack the truth when they come up here and say that the autonomous communities will not have 4 billion more if the budgets are not approved, because with budgets or without budgets the Lofca must be applied, and, if not, come up here and say I'm lying. The minister said so, just as he told officials not to worry because if there were no budgets they would draw a royal decree to comply with them. Therefore, these calls to vote on the budget do not have any kind of route saying that, if not, the autonomous communities are not going to have funding and the officials are going to see their salary improved. I say this to those who want to justify their orange vote on these budgets. In any case, I would ask you to vote in favour of the three amendments, of the five, which remain alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u93	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lord De la Torre - he is no longer -, the former intervener of the PP has left you in evidence and has portrayed you and your group: aiming for the medal without having run the marathon. Jaime de Olano, who is a gentleman, has had to endure the laughter when you have attributed the taxi ride, because yes, it is an amendment signed by you together with the People's Party, but the perch - it is a curious terminology of the Committee on Budgets - from which hangs is an amendment of the People's Party; that is, less merits. At this point it is up to me to apologize to my colleague Teresa Jordà, to whom this intervention would correspond. She - it should be remembered -, in addition to having participated in the Commission of Finance and Public Service, has been mayor for eight years from Ripoll City Hall. He's gone, too. [[Laughter]] To make it appear in the Diario de Sesiones, my embrace and visca Ripoll and visca Catalunya liure, Teresa. In fact, today it is up to you to make a commendation of the municipalities as administration that more social work does with less budget and meeting all the austerity criteria that you and the European troika have imposed on them. We have many people who often ask us: What has been lost to you in the General Budgets of the State? We remind them that much has been lost to us; we have still lost everything in the General Budgets of the State. On the other hand, we are criminalized by the fact that we have not participated in the negotiating committees for a financing model. From experience, we tell you that none of the financing models has managed to solve a historical constant, a constant almost physical one that generates a fiscal deficit of 8% of GDP in Catalonia. After almost ten years of approving the current funding system, statutory reforms, etc., we are still at exactly the same point as when the Institute of Fiscal Studies - yes, its own - estimated exactly the same fiscal deficit. And it's just that the history of autonomous financing has been a history of non-compliance. Between 2010 and 2015, the Valencian Institute for Economic Research totaled EUR 84 billion. Not bad, 84.5 billion euros. Thus, it would even be easy to meet the deficit targets, which, by the way, had already been managed well enough to meet from the General Administration of the State. Within the framework of the common autonomous financing there is and never will be room for a minimally fair agreement for Catalonia, for Balearics and for the Valencià Country. You guys make some rules, and if you don't get the numbers out, you skip them. I had a number of more points to make, but the faith that my colleague and friend Mr Bel has in me ended in the middle of the debate in the Commission, so I will continue with the trick of hiding our living amendments to see if there is any luck. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u95	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u96	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this title covers certain aspects of the financing rules of local authorities and autonomous communities, a key issue to ensure that these territorial authorities can provide public services to citizens, and in the case of most autonomous communities of common system we already know that the income they receive to finance a large part of the welfare state - education, health and social care for people - is not enough, a weakness that continues to be addressed by the Government. In 2014, this insufficiency was already known and the model should have been revised, as envisaged in the law, but the People's Party Government unilaterally did not want, despite having an absolute majority, despite having the majority of the governments of the autonomous communities, arguing the proximity of the autonomic elections and the lack of budgetary space. Again, we are one year away from the next autonomous elections, but the economic cycle phase of the country creates budgetary space, a margin that the Government has not wanted to take in these budgets to correct the problems of under-financing of the model. The government boasts of the largest transfers to the autonomous communities, but the contributions to the account grow only by 3.9 %, below the expected increase in tax collection by 6 %, and the widespread under-financing problems recognized in the expert report presented in July 2017 have not been solved. That is why we Socialists have tabled an amendment calling for the urgent reform of the funding model and the creation of a transitional fund for autonomous financing since 1 January 2017 that guarantees the necessary resources for the implementation of the reform and to ensure that it culminates successfully in the sense that the autonomous communities have the additional resources derived from a new funding model. Because, ladies and gentlemen, without new resources it will be very difficult to carry out this reform. If the Spanish right votes against, it will once again demonstrate that addressing the new autonomous funding is not its priority. Mr Montoro does not present the funding reform, nor does he give clear signs that this review can be undertaken in the short term, and these budgets are evidence of this. With regard to autonomous financing, he had preferred to give priority to agreements with the Basque Government and to leave aside the needs of the rest of the communities, and there was the inconsistency of the Citizens' Group, which had criticized the Basque quota. Do you remember the coupon thing? But the truth is that with your vote in favour of the budgets you will be validating and supporting the People's Party's policy. Please note that the operational instrumentation of payments for the compensation of the Basque quota is incorporated in the additional provision one hundred and seventh. As always, Mr Rivera, your words and criticisms of the government are pure theatre because, when it comes to truth, the Spanish right, the People's Party and the Citizens' Group vote in bloc, sharing even the ballot with the People's Party, proving that they are the same. [[applause]] Yes, gentlemen, they are the same: the Spanish right. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, it is true that the budget has incorporated opening the door to the restructuring of the debt of the territorial administrations through incentives. But, ladies and gentlemen, as we have warned you, they must take into account the starting position of these administrations, because depending on how these benefits or punishments are set, they will or will not contribute to exacerbating or correcting inequalities between communities. At present there are communities that have reduced the deficit, yes; they have made a major effort, yes, but not addressing underfunding makes the problem come back. There are communities that continue to pay interest on the accumulated debt of the FLA and the Providers' Fund without solving the start-up problems, which causes more deficit and more debt. A situation that moves communities and the State as a whole away from meeting debt targets within the framework of budgetary stability. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important issue, so we have also made a proposal on this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and I hope that, despite your vote against, the vote against the right, this issue can be dealt with shortly. On the other hand, local entities, such as administrations closest to citizens, are the ones that best perceive the effects of not ensuring sufficient income. That is why we consider the importance of assessing whether or not these revenues are sufficient. In this regard, we have proposed amendments, in collaboration with the EMFF, to assess and thereby improve and avoid the dysfunctions that are being experienced by the application of the model of participation in State taxes. Among other things, we have proposed that the Ministry of Finance, before 1 July, publish on the website these revenue forecasts in order to make it easier for the municipalities to draw up their budgets. We have also proposed measures to support local entities with funding problems and we have tabled an amendment to the indefinite extension for the destination of surplus and financially sustainable investments and expenditures of an extraordinary and urgent nature, in such a way that the rule is improved and that it is not subject, each time, to the approval of the General Budgets of the State. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Party, see how we try to contribute to this budget, although you do not want or care. The administrations, ladies and gentlemen, need certainties when it comes to managing and the effects of the inability of the central government to approve new General State Budgets cannot be passed on to the rest of the administrations. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is the local authorities and the autonomous communities that have ensured the fulfilment of the deficit target for 2017, compensating for the breaches of the Central Administration and Social Security. Transparency in the setting and distribution of deficit targets is therefore essential today more than ever, as is the adoption of proportionate anti-infringement measures for all institutions. Please note that territorial administrations are not subjects of the central Government but are part of the State, and that only by guaranteeing their capacity for action, coordination and a genuine will for dialogue on the part of all will it be possible to avoid further territorial tensions. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I support all the Socialist Group's amendments on this subject which remain alive and which will be voted on in the coming days. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ten Oliver has the floor in the position-setting round for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Title VII of the territorial authorities contains rules on the financing of local authorities, autonomous communities and the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. Let us therefore talk about funding; let us therefore talk about the amendments. Firstly, I believed that all the parliamentary groups in this House coincided with the urgency and need to reform that system of autonomous financing of local finances, the principles of equality and equity set out in our Constitution, in our Magna Charter. But although the facts of course change and it is impossible to maintain the privileges, the blockade of the General Budgets of the State now breaks all logic. Mrs Blanquer, spokesman for the Socialist Group, commented that there was an inconsistency in our citizens. He said that we say one thing and the other, and I believe, Your Honor, that he has misread his speech. What you are saying regarding the additional provision one hundred and seventeenth is the fulfillment of a normative empowerment by which you, the Socialist Party, together with the People's Party and Podemos, approved in December 2017 the calculation - the miscalculation - of the so-called Basque coupon. [[Applauds]] That's a contradiction. You have a President in our Valencian Community, Socialist, Mrs Blanquer, who does say that the financing system is unfair, but you here in Congress defend the opposite. That bad call you say Basque coupon is the fruit of the privileges that have been granted for a long time. It is true that the People's Party brings late the budgets of the State, with more than six months of delay, we know this and we have talked about Article 134, but one thing is to bring them late and get the agreement, as is the case, and another very different is not to bring it, that it is late and also without previous consensus, as happens with the issue of autonomous financing. By the way, Mrs Madrazo - I don't know if she's in the Chamber - commented that Citizens didn't sweat the shirt. I think you're dragging your feet, because here you certainly don't sweat your shirt to bring the reform of the autonomous financing system to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, the two expert reports are clear. My group thinks that they are a good starting point, but the Government, I insist, does not push for that reform. Moreover, some autonomous communities, such as Catalonia, decide not to participate in the work and leave their chair empty, which seems to us irresponsible. In our view, there are many irresponsibilitys and many illegalities, an issue that we are already accustomed to. Secondly, with regard to the amendments, Mr Bel - which I do not see in the Chamber either - Members are disappearing - ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT - I do not see ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT - if they listen to me on television, there are two amendments tabled by your group which are very important and technicalally improve the original text. Amendment 5894 proposes to provide timely documentation to the Ministry of Finance and 5896 that the State undertake to provide information from the autonomous community to review the Global sufficiency Fund, the latter amendment, which is very similar to the 3415 of the Republican Left. Ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT and the Republican Left of Catalonia, it is a shame that they are lost in defending the process, in that extemporaneous independenceist defense which is outside the 21st century and which is outside this Europe. If you really want to reform something, if you really want to change things, I encourage you to do what you are doing here: make amendments, respect the rules, respect the procedures, because there is nothing above the law. The opposite - and you know it - is chaos, and I think you should not deceive your voters. Thirdly, as far as resources are concerned, while this funding reform does not come, it is not enough to sit down and criticize. Without budgets, the autonomous communities will not receive increases in the collection of large taxes. Citizens have supported financial and budgetary stability, as they did in 2017, when an additional 5386 million euros were contributed, and this year 2018 will stop autonomous communities and local entities 4248 million more. My question, ladies and gentlemen, from the PSOE, is why they are voting against all this, if it is going to improve autonomous financing, and it is that the General Budgets of the State are state policy. With its blocking attitude, we depend on nationalism and will never undertake the necessary reforms to eradicate funding inequalities. Finally, Title VII contains, inter alia, rules on transfers of subsidies for urban collective transport services. For example of a useful policy, a button: Citizens have negotiated among these amendments the inclusion of a transfer of 10 million for this year to the Metropolitan Transport Authority of Valencia, the third metropolitan area of Spain. Well, it's true that with the vote against Unite Podemos. I don't understand why. I think they should explain to the citizens, especially the Valencians, why they voted against this amendment in the Commission, because for the first time in history it will have a Valencia subsidy in metropolitan transport. And perhaps in the end Mr Montoro will be right, who are dedicated to crying, who are really dedicated to asking for things but are not able to sit down, negotiate and get something for the citizens. I'm done, Madam President. These budgets undoubtedly contribute to strengthening social services, contributing to health, education and of course to increasing the resources transferred to the autonomous communities and local entities. But the reform of this opaque, insolidary and unjust model of autonomous financing is needed, I insist. Ladies and gentlemen, carry out your task, sweat the shirt here, because you have to sweat it here, and Citizens will continue to work for equality and equity in our country. A country of free and equal because together and united of course we are much stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten Oliver. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u100	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Title VII is indeed that of financial relations with local entities and autonomous communities. Autonomous communities that manage basic public services such as health, education and social services such as care for dependency: the three fundamental steps of the welfare state. And the municipalities, which, among other skills, respond to the social emergency. And despite providing much of the basic public services, they have been much more constrained, much more constrained by government adjustment and cut-off policies than the central administration. Mr Montoro always wants to comply well with Brussels by forcing the autonomous communities and the municipalities to make a greater effort to reduce the deficit. Last year the municipalities had a surplus of 0.6 %, while the autonomous communities had a deficit of 0.3 % and the state had a deficit of 1.9 %, thus failing the central government to meet the deficit target. The problem is the lack of resources for these key public services. The communities of the common system have made an adjustment of more than EUR 11 billion in real per capita spending on basic public services between 2009 and 2015, while the central administration has increased spending, according to a study by the Valencian Institute of Economic Studies. Minister Montoro, in the debate on all budgets, made two statements that are directly linked. He said: The fruits of economic recovery are distributed among millions of Spaniards and the territorial administrations have more resources to provide the public services of the welfare state. Well, no. The problem with these budgets and their economic policy is that growth does not reach the pockets of those who suffer most from precariousness, temporaryity or labour poverty in the proportion of economic growth. Because it also does not come as it should to the income of the public administrations of the communities and the municipalities. According to a European Commission report, 20% of the population with the highest income earns 6.6 times more than 20% of the population with the lowest income. We see Spanish and Spanish, like those of Citizens, but we see precarious people, we see workers and workers and we see people who suffer from labor poverty that are invisible to you. What happens is that the correlation between increasing employment and correcting inequalities, as the Gini index shows, in Spain is uncoupling. That's the problem. Growth is not distributed as it should and to a large extent it is because local and autonomous public administrations do not have the necessary income, we are 6 points apart from the EU average. Behind this policy, the policy shared by the People's and Citizens' Party, what there is is that they want a weak, rickish welfare state, so that the public spending figure is reduced to 38%. It is now at 40.5 % and the euro area average at 47 %. And less social state is less autonomous and local administration, less decentralization and, ultimately, less democratic quality. If growth does not sufficiently reach self-governments and municipalities in the form of recovery of social benefits and improvements in public services, neither does it reach the citizenry. According to the same European Commission report, redistribution through public taxes and transfers has a low effect on reducing inequality in Spain by 34.6%, while in the European Union it is 40%. That is why, as I mentioned in the debate in the Commission, a few days ago a survey came out saying that 73% of the population is pessimistic in relation to the situation in Spain and 80% of the citizens believe that Spain has not yet emerged from the crisis, no matter how much propaganda you put into the matter. The other side of the problem, of weakening public administrations, is the funding model, which four years ago would have to be revised; a model that does not adequately guarantee resources for communities. We have a model with serious problems: under-financing problems, 16 billion, according to the committee of experts. Problems such as lack of financial autonomy. Although you, PP and Citizens, insist that we are one of the most decentralized countries in the world, it is not true; the taxes that are managed directly by the autonomous governments do not amount to 14%. Problems such as the lack of equity and inequalities caused by some tax competition practices among the autonomous communities, or the lack of transparency in the application of the various funds. Minister Montoro also assumed that these budgets were those of territorial financing, as if such an increase of 3.6% was a graceful decision of the Government, when it is a legal obligation; that is in the system of financing, and it is a smaller increase, by the way, than that foreseen in the main tax figures. The other major challenge is local funding, which has been pending review for even more years. Many municipalities, despite having surplus, cannot use it for investments they consider necessary; an absolutely absurd situation that the royal decree law passed a few weeks ago is absolutely insufficient to resolve. There are municipalities, the municipalities of change, like those of Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Cádiz, Santiago, that have healed the accounts that in some cases the PP left in red numbers, and they have also substantially increased the social investment. For example, Barcelona is the city of Spain where social spending has grown the most. And the problem that needs to be solved is that, the problem of the spending rule. We have tabled an amendment for the creation of a special funding fund for municipalities with a population of no more than 20,000 that has unfortunately been vetoed by the Government, and in other amendments we call on the Government to push forward the reform of the funding model once and for all; a reform that must be carried out in a bilateral agreement with the autonomous communities and multilaterally by all of them. We hope that at once, without the authoritarian obstacles of some and without the travel to any part of others, the Catalan Government will participate in this negotiation process, defending the interests of the citizens of Catalonia and the self-government of Catalonia. We have also tabled amendments on local funding, to ensure the sufficiency and financial autonomy of local authorities, by the way, provided for in the Constitution in an article that you do not comply with either. Finally, without local autonomy and strong self-governments, democracy is weak, and that is what you are doing: a weak democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u102	Thank you, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum to defend, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, the normative provisions contained in Title VII of the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State regulating financial and financing relations between the various levels of government and administration in our country. To say that may be complex or an abstraction, but to talk about all this is to talk, as several speakers have pointed out this afternoon in this rostrum, first of all of the main public services of our welfare state and its funding, is to talk about how we understand the different realities that affect people in our country. We build our country, ladies and gentlemen, we meet the realities of people when we realize the public policies of proximity that our local corporations make, and we do that in the seventh title of the draft budget law. Or when we decide the policies of basic public services in health, education and social services, or when the State deploys its investment action for income redistribution, development and territorial convergence, as we do through the Interterritorial Compensation Fund in Title VII of the Act. The Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for 2018 that presents this government of the People's Party is social, ladies and gentlemen, more social than ever, because it adds to our autonomous communities and our local corporations more than 4238 million euros, which add to the 5386 million euros of the 2017 budget to sustain and improve our fundamental public services. It is 97 billion euros in two years, ladies and gentlemen, the fruit - indeed - of a legal obligation, but first of all the fruit of having returned growth and to the generation of employment. [[Applauds]] And Mr Bel, ladies and gentlemen, said that the Government has failed to fulfil its commitment to the financing of the autonomous communities. Man, that can be said more or less; the financing of the Autonomous Communities is a commitment of the Government but also of the Autonomous Communities themselves, because it is a multilateral negotiation. But I can think of little more commitment if the nation's government was to save the autonomous communities from bankruptcy by holding their debt. I can think of little more commitment if the Government of the nation has been developing the necessary policies to increase the collection that allows us to reach 97 billion euros for policies in education, health and social services. Man, at least it seems to me that the commitment of this Government is greater than the commitment shown by the Government in which Mr Bel participates to not even come forward to discuss the reform of the system. [[Applauds]] Mr. Capdevila said he's already for something else, because it turns out that Catalonia's fiscal deficit is never going to fix it. And I, Mr Capdevila, would ask you, are you seriously explaining to the Catalans the falsehood that you are not going to have a fiscal deficit outside the European Union? Do you really explain this to them? Listen, an entrepreneurial, dynamic, working society, with a medium-high income level, with a gross domestic product as Catalans have, must necessarily provide solidarity. Your Honor, I prefer to offer solidarity rather than to receive solidarity. [[Applauds]] Or are you going to carry out policies that depress Catalonia so much that you will need solidarity policies from the rest? [[The Lord]] Today the General Budgets of the State of 2018 are a commitment to our public servants because we fulfill the pay pact with our social agents, the pact for the equalization of wages of the Forces and State Security Bodies. They are a commitment to our elders because we revalue pensions. They are a commitment to low and middle incomes with the fiscal reform that is expected, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, today the 2018 General State Budgets are once again - as we have done in the last seven years - a commitment to ourselves as a society and as a country. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotism above all is a permanent effort to improve together, without distinction, without radicalism, knowing the diversity of our country and betting on harmony. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotism is, above all, to say that it is not - as the President of the Government of Mariano Rajoy said - to inflate the knee and ask for the rescue, despite the siren chants of some. [[Applauds]] Patriotism, ladies and gentlemen, is to move away from the easy and to take the difficult decisions that they touch at every moment in order to be able to improve, as we have done in recent years of government, without renouncing responsibilities, being left to everyone and making the relevant policies to reduce - although much remains to be done - how we are reducing social inequality and exclusion in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotism is, in the end, before the peronist solutions of some or the simplistic and television solutions of others, committing and correcting with the solution of the problems of the Spaniards, of all of them, as the People's Party has done during these years and as the People's Parliamentary Group again does today with those parliamentary groups that decide to put aside the partisanism and to bet on an improvement of the living conditions of the Spaniards with this draft law of the General Budgets of the State for 2018. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí. Finally, we move on to the debate on the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions and annexes. In defence of the amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. The incorporation of the fourteen amendments submitted by Forum and introduced into the Commission in the opinion of the draft State General Budgets Act for 2018 allows us to support our affirmative vote in the public accounts, which initially stated for Asturias 286 million euros, a decrease of 15,85 % on those established for the financial year 2017. Now, following the improvements made in the procedure of the Committee on Budgets, the investment of the State in the initial project is increased by 35% and the EUR 348 million is reached to meet the needs of Asturias, in addition to other important agreements to boost its economic growth and promote the creation of jobs. For us, the implementation of the programme with which the People's Party and Forum appeared before the Asturians two years ago in the general elections is irrefutable. To the point of passing the equator of the legislature, the General Budgets of the State are the obligatory economic support of the different commitments made between the voters because, as the classics say, what is not in the budget is not in the world. Correcting is wise and today an unfortunate initial unserviceable budgetary distribution is corrected to meet the challenges that Asturias faces and that are reflected, as I repeatedly point out in this very forum, in the labour force rate, in GDP projections, in infrastructure or in the competitiveness index, among other official indicators. The two additional provisions already contained in the opinion concern, on the one hand, measures to support the coal sector and, on the other, the extension of new generation broadband in Asturias, one of the Spanish autonomous communities which, due to its orography and dispersion of the population, faces greater difficulties in its connectivity to new technologies; in fact, the digital divide in Asturias affects one fifth of its population and the territory has almost 6500 white areas, which also affects the impossibility of fixing inhabitants in rural areas and enormous difficulties in promoting the creation of SMEs in agriculture, food and rural tourism, among other sectors. Measures in the coal sector, as contained in a new additional provision, promote the economic development of the mining basins by incorporating additional project actions from successive outstanding sectoral plans and providing 20 million Additional transitional provisions, Derogations and finals and annexes. the mechanisms to support the reduction of environmental emissions in thermal power plants. This is the progressive and future path proposed by Forum so as not to destroy the Spanish industrial fabric, as the supporters of the closure of coal thermal power plants claim to be frivolous and interested in opening - that is, through the back door - nuclear thermal power plants. Live to see. We can, United Left and PSOE put red carpets to nuclear energy in charge of receiving the light from the Spaniards. We propose to provide financial instruments for the application of modern technologies to enable power plants to achieve the European Union's planned zero-emission target and to achieve the so-called clean coal in the future. This new additional provision also promotes the signing of framework cooperation agreements between the Ministry of Energy and the autonomous communities affected by the closure of mining and coal, all aimed at developing infrastructure projects and restoration of degraded areas due to mining activity. It also offers measures relating to the exceptionality of framework agreements so that additional project actions from successive coal plans that are pending liquidation can be envisaged. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. Mr Candela Serna has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me make an assessment of the process of drawing up, discussing and debating these general budgets on behalf of my group, the Valencian Group, and let me do so with a look that, beyond seeing Spanish everywhere in the purest joséantonian style, focuses on what must be the guarantees for a clear and transparent democratic process. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets, like the previous ones, have been an attempt to systematically violate the right that assists us in amending, discussing and improving the budgets. I affirm that with knowledge of cause. In this budget process, amendments have been vetoed which in previous years had not been vetoed, even in contravention of Constitutional Court rulings. This year they have eliminated section 31 to make it impossible to carry out our parliamentary function and then, with an agreement in the shade, they have enabled section 35 for this purpose when that section is for something else. And so on and so on. What Citizens and the People's Group have done has been to send a dangerous message, which means: we will do what we want and when we want. This necessarily means reducing democracy and freedom, one more stage in the process that we are moving towards an authoritarian democracy or, at least, militant democracy. We do not intend to show naivety in these statements, for if anyone knows what is the fundamental contribution of those who are now called liberals, with their recent Make Spain great again, it is us and it is not precisely the defense of freedom; on the contrary, it is the defense of arbitrariness. What you have done in this Congress and in these budgets, with the help of the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, has been to allow arbitrariness to encamp in its broadest, violating our freedom and the right to exercise our legislative functions. Liberals do not defend freedom; they defend arbitrariness to crush others with their freedom. However - I am finishing - we are not surprised by this attitude, because, as you say, you are proud to influence or influence the People's Party in its political corollary, but, look, because, as is often said, everything is stuck and believe me that arbitrariness is the founding principle of corruption that comes a posteriori. If not, look at how your partners started and how they ended up. I'm done. Be careful with those citizen glasses that have been put on, because they see neither corruption nor patriarchy and inequalities between men and women nor the necessary application of regulations so that we can carry out our work. Look in the mirror and wonder if you want to see Aznar, Le Pen or Trump. If not, remove these glasses and in any case, please stop the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u108	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the last one; I do not bother you any more. Mr Ten tells me: Do what you have to do; come here and make amendments. For what? Not one. Where's Mr. Ten? He's gone, too. [[Rumors]] Come here and we'll bury everything, I should say. Deportivity, olympism. Look, Don Vicente, I come from an ancient and very long silence. I'm not going to go on with the verse, but like Mr. Marí has understood it too. And he's gone, too. For the Journal of Sessions, I want to make Mr. Marí a very important appointment from Chesterton when he talks about patriotism. Chesterton argues that patriotism should not be the first of virtues; in any case, it must be the last because when patriotism is the first of virtues it becomes Prussianism. Partidism? Do I repeat to you the list of amendments by Esquerra that have nothing to do with partyism and that have nothing to do with even patriotism, neither mine nor yours? There are 1198 amendments and 1155 remain alive. I'm not talking about the beak because they still call me to order. They are amendments to additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions of which so far have been adopted... Zero. And these are amendments on very different aspects. I'll review some of them if I have time. Some mention that the R+D+i system and its various centres and structures are able to have, in addition to greater resources, greater flexibility in their planning, recruitment management and human resources. One of them is the Minimal Invasion Surgery Center in Cáceres. Is there an extremist MP from the People's Parliamentary Group in the room? Go; go and count in Cáceres that have not voted in favour of Amendment 1020 because it has been tabled by Esquerra. Patriotism? In the field of energy there are several amendments: for the promotion of sustainable, renewable and decarbonisation energy; for the correction of the financing of an energy model that clearly favours the five existing monopolies throughout the territory; for the destination of surpluses in the sector; for the compensation of additional costs for the electro-intensive industries; for the maintenance, improvement and subterration of certain medium- and high-voltage power lines as they pass through the populations, not the Catalan ones but any of those of the State; for the promotion of the productive economy by encouraging SMEs. These are good. For export promotion; we amend by saying: do not go up, do not go down, do not touch that heading, but at least 50 % for SMEs, because SMEs account for 98 % of the number of industries in this country. There are also various amendments on the change of sponsorship, so that it is the legislative assemblies of the autonomous communities that can identify or incorporate priority sponsorship activities with the facilitation of tax benefits. There are also amendments relating to the Llul - Mr Marí has returned - and amendments for the authorization of payments on account of the services of proximity and regional transferred to the Generalitat of Catalonia, amendments for the decentralised management of resources in the field of occupation or research, amendments in reference to the Law Regulating Local Finances, of the reinvestment of surplus in social spending programmes, in relation to the tourist municipalities. In addition, amendments to the social bonus, amendments to health expenditure, to the Cohesion Fund and to the Assistance Guarantee Fund, on the cost of new medicines for hepatitis C, on the improvement of the National Health System. Also amendments in the economic field, on binding reports perceptive of the Airef, on the compensation of various taxes, on the non-compliance with the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia - of what Mr Bel has already told them - on contributions to R & D+i funds. Let me tell you that I have a lot of appreciation and esteem for Mr Bel, but above all I envy him; I envy him for his zeal and for his affection, because until the end he will be insisting on making some amendments. I unfortunately do not enjoy those virtues and I give up any attempt to agree with you and you - People and Citizens - no amendments. As far as the 2018 State General Budgets are concerned, you and yourself have been unable to think that any of the 1200 amendments tabled could be of interest to all citizens. Take patriotism! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs. Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government of the People's Party usually uses these final, additional, derogatory, transitional provisions and annexes as the last point to a bill of general state budgets, in this case for 2018, which is deeply undemocratic and which deepens our country's economic and social divide, budgets that we consider to be continuous in the reduction of rights and which have a markedly neoliberal line. Our parliamentary group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u111	Wait a minute, Mrs. Franco. I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u112	He said that our parliamentary group has tabled an important number of amendments to these provisions to combat its neoliberal line. In economic matters we advocate a modification of all those provisions that maintain the absurd rule of spending, which excessively limits the ability of the various administrations to self-organise, especially the local ones, some of them with surplus - I have explained it before - such as Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia or Zaragoza, by the way, the municipalities of change. With regard to public service, we propose to fix as mandatory the refund of the 2012 overtime payment to those administrations that have not yet done so. We also propose to eliminate the limits of the replacement rate for local self-government and other administrations by empowering them to organize the recruitment of their staff according to the needs of each of their staff, proposing thirty-five hours of work and extending the paternity permit already enjoyed by civil servants. With regard to the limitation of municipal autonomy and the limitation to remunicipalizations, last year they approved in the General Budgets of the State the additional provisions 26 and 34, which, in our opinion, were a brutal invasion of local autonomy by imposing a certain model of management, and that is why we are submitting at the moment a remedy of unconstitutionality. This year they repeat additional provision 34 and we want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the General Budgets of the State must not be used either to change what they do not like about other rules, or to violate local autonomy or to impose a certain model of management. [[Applauds]] With regard to the energy model, we propose amendments that prioritize renewable energy by using revenues generated by the auction of greenhouse gas emissions allowances and by granting investment aid from 50% of the auctions for greenhouse gas emissions allowances or 80% of the surplus of electricity revenues. On an equal footing, we call for the extension of evidence in non-signatory sentences to Labour Inspectorate reports, medical reports, police reports, social services or reception services so that women victims of gender-based violence can prove their victim status. Allow me to make a point here to say the following. Dona María José Ordóñez, get on with it and even if they approve the amendment for the financing of the Pact against Macho Violence, the 120 million euros are not the 200 million euros that need the financing of the Pact against Macho Violence, there are still 80 million euros missing. [[Applauds]] With regard to the rights of migrants, we call for the maintenance of the Fund for the Integration of Immigrants, as well as the State's allocation to the autonomous communities for their operation. In science we propose limiting prior intervention to public research bodies, which has so far resulted in an administrative blockade situation that is putting the continuity of projects and research lines at risk. In the area of social security, as far as pensions are concerned, we propose to abolish the logic of the budgetary balance involved in the loan of EUR 15 164 million. That is why we have replaced this loan with a contribution from the State to social security, because we believe that the State has to contribute to social security for social rights and social expenditure, a necessary measure and that it must even be armored by the Constitution, and thus guarantee public pensions. We are increasing the amount of widow's pensions by increasing the percentage from 50 to 60 per cent, a measure which would, of course, benefit women. We want to take firm steps towards the elimination of a gender gap in pensions that is already insurmountable: women continue to charge €6,000 per year less than men on pensions. On the other hand, we propose the abolition of the bonus associated with the indefinite conversion of training and apprenticeship contracts for young people. We understand that this conversion must be mandatory, by law. Therefore, there could be no bonus. With regard to the most basic rights, which serve to carry out a dignified life, we demand the increase of the Iprem from 537 to 758 euros per month. Iprem is an indicator that is used to calculate the numerous benefits, grants, scholarships, and that has been frozen since 2010. This is leaving many people, the worst of whom are going through it, in a situation where they have to survive hard, and that for a democratic government is indecent. We are also proposing to repeal what you call the universal social card, which for us and for a large part of society is nothing but a card for the poor. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting these amendments and asking for their support because we want to build a country of the future, a country of rights in which our people can build a project of life with security; a country that is not for a few, but a country for all. The Members of the Confederal Group of the United States We can table these amendments because we came here to fight for bread, but we also came here to fight for roses for our people and we will not stop until we get them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in this section, as in fact the budget debate as a whole, is addicted, truncated, largely distorted. Why? Because the most important amendments of the opposition groups have been vetoed. It is not that they have been rejected with the votes of a majority, it is not; it is that even their processing has not been allowed. It is true that the Constitution and the Rules of this House give the Government the capacity to block the processing of amendments to preserve the balance of public accounts, but when misuse is made, an arbitrary use of that prerogative becomes a fraud and, even more serious, shows very little respect for the work of Members of this House who represent the best expectations and hopes of millions of citizens. [[Applauds]] The budgetary debates, please note, began on the 16th in the Commission. Ten hours after the debates began, the Government continued to post vetoes; that is, Members were working and debating amendments that did not know that the Government was turning into wet paper. Lack of respect and arbitrariness! [[Applauds]] They even veto amendments that have nothing to do with revenue and expenditure from the current or ongoing budget, which is what the doctrine of the Constitutional Court establishes as a condition. For example, they veto our request to repeal the pension sustainability factor, which would enter into force on 1 January next year. This is beyond the doctrine of the Constitutional Court! It's the same thing! I will tell you something, you have every right - PP and Citizens - to add your votes to approve budgets that cut rights and welfare to the Spaniards, those are the rules, but you do not have the right to skip the Constitution, to ignore the ruling of the Constitutional Court and to disrespect the deputies who in this House represent the will of millions of Spaniards. You have no right to that. [[Applauds]] Many of our amendments have to do with pensions, in fact, because pensioners are being misled to a large extent. There is no consistency between what is being sold, what is being said even from this rostrum, and what appears in the draft budgets and in the amendments that you are making. Because it is not true that with these budgets pensioners will regain, not even maintain, purchasing power. That's not true! The 1.6% rise is going to fall far short of real inflation, which is triggered by oil prices. You know that and I know that, and there is no guarantee clause for the deviation of inflation, a clause that we have proposed and you have vetoed. In addition, this 1.6% increase is an electoralist guinea pig, a guinea pig for the electoral year; by the end of the electoral year we will return to the 0.25 % dictatorship. You haven't explained this to the pensioners! [[Applauds]] Neither are you fulfilling with widows, as you are counting. You sell it as a graceful gift to arrive at a benefit calculated on 56% of the regulatory base. It is true that it is more than there is now, but it is that the law in force, the law of the year 2011, obliges the Government now to apply 59%. They are not moving forward, they are going backwards, they are cutting widows' pensions from 59 % to 56% of the regulatory base. This is the truth. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] They don't even comply with the self-employed, because that one year more flat-rate gift for entrepreneurs in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants is going to affect very few people. However, what they have signed to postpone part-time work contributions again harms millions of self-employed people. Nor are they meeting the funding, with the balance of the Social Security accounts, because they re-enter the Social Security accounts with 15 billion more. Nor is it true that they are delaying the application of the sustainability factor that will cut tomorrow's pensions, because the new wording says that the sustainability factor will apply before 1 January 2023, and before 1 January 2023 is 2022 or 2021 or 2019 or the day after the entry into force of this law. You're not delaying anything. You're deceiving the pensioners, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. Our amendments also propose to resolve some injustices in relation to unemployment benefits, because it is not fair for the economy to grow and the unemployed to become poorer, from 30 billion in 2011 in unemployment benefit expenditure to 17 000 this year and 18 000 last year, less and less, and we have 2 660 000 unemployed without any benefit, two out of three unemployed have no benefit and continue to cut the unemployment expenditure chapter. They come to the absurdity of not even spending what they are going to collect on unemployment contributions. This year, according to their estimates, more than 20 billion are going to be raised in unemployment contributions. However, they only budget an expenditure of 17,000. How can they budget only 17 000 and stop spending EUR 3 billion when they have 2 600 000 unemployed without public aid? What are you going to spend this money on? To forgive taxes? To pay for the toll radials? There is no right at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] They also take advantage of a ruling of the Constitutional Court to introduce an amendment to these budgets to cut long-term unemployment benefits. The Preparation and the EAP can now be charged in a successive way, six months and six months, in total twelve months. They approved with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group an extraordinary subsidy which can only be charged six months. Of course it is extraordinary, it is extraordinarily scarring, from twelve months to six months. [[Applauds]] There's no right, ladies and gentlemen. Please rectify, accept our amendments, because, as you have done this afternoon in relation to the EUR 200 million of the pact against gender violence, they are only right when they are rectified. Correct in this too, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. We will continue with our approach. Where you propose guineas for an election year, we speak of rights and dignity; where you propose misgivings, the Socialist Parliamentary Group proposes just solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u115	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, arbitrariness: tell yourself how to act based solely on will or whim and which does not obey principles dictated by reason, logic or laws. This is what I personally say as chairman of the Committee on Budgets a group and a Member who is not in the Committee on Budgets because he believes that it is much more interesting to belong to other committees in this House than to the Committee on Budgets, since he considers that the budget is not relevant in the public purses. Today they ask me to leave, to be thrown out by the other Members of the Commission because I listen to the lawyers and apply a ruling from the Constitutional Court. Like the other members of the Bureau of the Committee on Budgets, I take decisions based on law and all in agreement with the lawyers on the vetoes presented by the Government. By the way, let's see if some deputies here read article 134 of the Constitution, which states that only the Government can veto. [[Applauds]] With regard to the qualifications, the Government, as Mr Simancas has said, vetoed some amendments which, in the opinion of the lawyers, in the first place, did not entail revenue reductions or increases in expenditure and which the Bureau voted in favour. These amendments have been debated and discussed; the others have been debated but cannot be voted on because the Government has exercised constitutional authority. And if you do not agree, Mr Simancas, what you have to do is to comply with the Constitution and, if necessary, appeal the agreements or try to amend them, but to live up to other parties in this House that do not respect the Constitution is surprising. [[Applauds]] Speaking of arbitrariness, I am surprised that Mr Candela Serra speaks of arbitrariness when Compromís, apart from not being on the Committee on Budgets, is responsible, for example, for the Marzà decree, which said that the children who were in Valencian linguistic immersion knew more English, which has the whole logic of the world. [[Applauds]] Courts are resorted to; the courts say that this decree is clearly illegal and we draw a decree-law to fail to comply with court rulings. This, of course, has nothing to do with arbitrariness; what is arbitrary is to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. A little please, ladies! [[Applauds]] By the way, I can understand that Compromís is very angry because Citizens have been the only one who has achieved something: budget increases in two works for Alicante and Castellón and the first funding, at last, to metropolitan transport in Valencia, while Compromís, as has done all this legislature, has achieved absolutely nothing. I understand that bothers you. [[Applauds]] It seems incredible to have to come up to this rostrum to remind also Mr Capdevila of Esquerra, to whom I have the greatest personal affection, that from Citizens we do not vote his budgetary amendments in favour or against for nationalism, but that the amendments have to square. Here, when various groups put forward nine hundred, a thousand amendments and don't tell you where they're going to get the money or they're just sometimes told but... [[Rumors]] Mr Capdevila, then you withdrew it but you, laughing at all the Spanish taxpayers, proposed to finance a train station in a municipality that does not exist. No one's had that lack of seriousness. [[Applauds]] We have different budgetary priorities. Sometimes we agree and, indeed, when we have agreed what has happened is that we negotiate and vote in favour of the budgets. Because we have to remember here, one, that budgets have to square and, two, if this House does not support budgets it gives everything the same, nothing has served anything. As my colleague Mr Díaz literally says: That will be lost as tears in the rain, as they say in Blade Runner. So, first, you can only negotiate a bill if you support it and, second, spending items have to be paid for with something. After all these remarks, I would like to refer very briefly, because I no longer have time, to the additional, transitional, final provisions, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 34 final provisions and 136 additional ones, and I have to say, not only because I am the President of the Commission, that I am very proud of the work of the Commission, because a lot of legislation other than the necessary budget has been amended, which has involved very important legislative work. Nearly 260 amendments had been adopted in the Commission, which had amended laws and ratified the additional provisions. Among the most relevant changes, we have included - because we are serious - a mandatory report from the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority if you want to approve profits, restructurings, to the debt of the autonomous communities. A very important amendment that we have managed to make is that which includes all groups with specific educational needs as potential beneficiaries of scholarship schemes, an issue that has been negotiated by my group and on which I have to thank the work of the Education Spokesperson, Marta Martín. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, we believe that the tax system has to evolve into the future, so this parliamentary group has put forward an amendment which provides for a new tax on technology so that they have a reasonable minimum tax. Also, with regard to the taxation of banks, we have put forward something useful, as it is that the Treasury Inspectorate can at last verify the accounting losses from which millions of returns are derived that were so far out of control. In this regard, I am grateful for the compromise with the People's Parliamentary Group and the vote in favour of the other groups so that this can be controlled. There are also some issues of pure common sense, such as the question that guardrails should not be established on newly created roads, but should be placed in the most dangerous places, because the aim is not to make the new roads more beautiful, but to avoid as many accidents as possible or the consequences of them for drivers. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that in this complicated situation in Spain, we believe that Spain needs accounts and that these are good accounts; we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u117	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr Capdevila, I thank you, as you are well aware, for the amendment to the additional provisions relating to the Centre for Minimal Invasion Surgery in Cáceres. I appreciate that affection for the extremists, but if they really felt that affection they would not have voted last week in Parliament for a president who says of us that we are butchers, vipers and hyenas. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, 410 and 710 are exactly the euros that each taxpayer would have to pay extra if everything in the PSOE and Podemos amendments were approved. In that amount we can evaluate the tax increase for each Spanish. Life remains the same, the left invites the party, but never pays it. It is always paid by the others, by other governments, by the Spanish, or almost always by the two. It was done by the PSOE in 1996 when it left the country on the verge of bankruptcy and almost outside the euro and did so again in 2011, when the bankruptcy separated us from a thin line, which, as in 1996, is called the People's Party, and it is that the Spaniards whenever they have needed a party to solve the problems that the left has put us into, has called us. You pretend that your party is paid by the Spaniards - then I explain the party to you in some detail - but fortunately now you do not rule. The Spaniards called us back in 2011 to create a new job, to keep getting Spain out of the hole in which they put us, because we didn't go into it alone, their politicians, some of whom from this bench give us lessons every week, were the culprits, and the Spaniards called us to solve those disguised ones again, didn't call the populists on the left or right, they called us and they know they can count on us to do it, that we're doing it again. We have to study in this section the amendments to the additional, transitional, derogatory, final and annex provisions of these General State Budgets and the truth is that it is curious every year to see how these provisions are used to write a true letter to the Magi, with a multitude of investments, extravagances, no budgetary counterpart, looking for the photo and without just defending them here, as we have seen. Because we haven't talked about any additional provisions. The truth is that they do not believe in their amendments because, as has been seen, they do not defend them. There are amendments of all kinds; some draw more attention than others. Parties like Compromís, which proposes to end the tax benefits to the celebration of the Centennial of the commemoration of the Virgin of Dew. Just this week, just today. A Valencian party that undoubtedly tries to impose its ideology beyond its territory. [[Rumors]] A ridiculous amendment. [[Applauds]] As I said, there are amendments of all kinds, such as those of the PSOE, which, far from asking students to try to get good grades to get their scholarship, asks to lower the grade in order to be able to access the grants. Great example for society, but very in line with its level; level that they also show in amendments such as the 2998, which calls for the Internet for all; it can now be seen that the Internet also has gender discrimination. They're still spraying the absurdity. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I am also drawn to your amendment 2989, which calls on the - in quotes - 'to abolish reductions, flat rates and exemptions in social security quotas'. And in their own motivation they make it even clearer; I quote them textually: 'It is considered desirable to eliminate reductions, flat rates and exemptions in social security quotas, because they do not contribute to the generation of employment'. Do you really believe that? Do you know that there are more than 1 300 000 people who have already benefited from this aid in order to be able to generate their professional life project? Do you really believe that? I don't understand them. His deputy, Maria Jesús Serrano, told us this afternoon that we would go out on the street and go to the queues of the employment service. I believe that it is you who should go, now that you are shorter, because in your time you were making several rounds of the apple and the visit was longer. I believe that it is you who live apart from reality. [[Applauds]] They have lived like this for many years, lifting all the sidewalks in the country and generating stops for millions simultaneously. Go to the queues of unemployment or visit our self-employed. If you want me to accompany you to Badajoz to visit a sympathizer of yours, my friend, who two months ago jumped from the lists of unemployment to self-employment thanks to these flat rates, and there it is, like other millions of braves raising every morning the blind of your business, certainly not thanks to you, but with the help that this flat rate represents, from which it has benefited for at least twelve months. Is that what you call a gift, Mr. Simancas? [[Applauds]] And we rhyme with Amendment 3138, in which the PSOE calls for everything stolen to be returned in cases of corruption in Valencia. I turn to the sheet of your amendment in case I lack something, but no, it does not come; I lack a number: 741. Ladies and gentlemen, 741 are the millions that the prosecution claims as stolen in the EREs of Andalusia, which have on the bench the last two presidents of the Socialist Party. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They're just offering to give back Valencia, not Andalusia? Do you have a superior gene? I'll tell them no. And with the amendments of Podemos we can also write a book, from the 3607, in which they intend to deny the tax benefits to celebrate the 100 years of the Legion in Ceuta, to other amounts, instead, among which, far from looking to the future of our country with illusion and eager to work, they only ask in all of them to dig pits. [[Rumors]] As long as your leader Echenique does not discharge your caregiver or contract him, you in Amendment 3799 ask for bonuses in professional caregivers, but so that Echenique also discharges your caregiver and accepts the bonus or does not affect you? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I will stop at two sets of your amendments. The first set of amendments from Podemos that draws my attention are all those - there are several - that deal with the Civil Guard proposing different improvements, in his opinion. I am a grandson of civil guard and apologize for telling you that the Civil Guard does not need your amendments because their rights are defended by the Government of Spain as shown in this budget and in its already unstoppable equal pay. [[Applauds]] Of you the Civil Guard only demands respect, the one you deny when you meet with the relatives of the aggressors of the Alsasua civilian guards and take pictures like this. [[applause]] [[Show a picture]] Less amendments and more respect, ladies and gentlemen. More respect for those who give their lives to defend our and our freedoms, those of all. The second set of amendments tabled by Podemos to which I would like to refer relates to housing; amendments which go from talking about the right to decent housing and Article 47 of the Constitution to talking about public park for rent of housing at affordable prices or to talking about a plan of collision against the housing emergency in Amendment 4186. Is the crash plan against the housing emergency this one that told Okdiario on Wednesday? [[Shows a press clipping with a photograph showing Mr. Iglesias Turrión, Mrs. Montero Gil and a chalet.-Applause]] I would define it perfectly Bruce Lee: Put Paul on a floor in Vallecas and he will be Marxist, put Paul in a cassoplon in the mountain range and be Marxist; be Pablo, my friend. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] In short, amendments of all kinds. I've got a lot more, but the presidency is taking out my yellow card. They're good budgets, they're good for everyone, they're good for Spain. These are the accounts that Spain needs; a Spain that grows like no one in Europe, that generates employment like no one in Europe, that looks to the world proudly to have done things right. These budgets will help this aim to have a stronger country, and these amendments that my group will reject only seek the opposite: to weaken and divide...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u119	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u120	Yes, President, I'm done. The Spaniards know that in the government of my country and in the party that supports it, mine, the People's Party, will always find whoever defends that Spain in which they believe, in which we all believe. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-05-21-CD180521.u121	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and twenty-five minutes of the night.
