ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. This plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on imprudence in driving motor vehicles or mopeds and the sanction of abandonment of the place of accident. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. I therefore announce to you, pursuant to this provision, that the votes will not take place before 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u2	I should also like to inform you that the Advisory Committee on Appointments has not issued any opinion on the proposal for the appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary for the role of jurists. The item on the agenda for the session accordingly lapsed.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u3	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws, and in particular with the Royal Decree-law 17/2018, of 8 November, amending the consolidated text of the Law on the Tax of Heritage Transmissions and Documented Legal Acts, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/1993, of 24 September. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government. Come in. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am addressing the plenary of the House this morning to submit to the consideration of its lords the Royal Decree-Law amending the consolidated text of the Law on the Taxation of Heritage Transmissions and Documented Legal Acts. They will remember that this is a real decree-law that we adopted in the Council of Ministers on 8 November to answer, to give satisfaction, in some way to have the political capacity to intervene in the whole process that had been opened because of the concern generated by the ruling of the Supreme Court of 5 November. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the plenary of the Supreme Court's Chamber of Litigation obliged the citizen to assume the payment of this tax, changing in a surprising way, in my view, that which had been the criterion of the Court's previous ruling, which had established that it was the banking entity that had to deal with it to date. It is obvious - but it is always good to repeat - that we scrupulously respect judicial decisions, as it is also important to point out precisely in this plenary the separation of powers. But this, ladies and gentlemen, does not prevent us as the executive branch from having the responsibility to acquit the legislative text so as not to create legal uncertainty. They must remember that there had been a brake, a stop at the signing of the mortgages because of the insecurity generated by the contradictory sentences. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, we also did not want to leave the rule to the interpretation that could be made in each case. Therefore, what we intend with this royal decree-law is to ensure from its publication that the payment of the tax on documented legal acts corresponding to the signing of the mortgages is the responsibility of the banks. This royal decree not only aims to reassure citizens, after the widespread alarm, even if it could have been legitimate, but also to guarantee the conditions and rules of the game of the real estate market,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u6	...that also, ladies and gentlemen, was being interpreted by different situations, and thus damaged in their usual development. Please note that the mortgage market is a very relevant sector of the Spanish economy, and that it could not continue to operate in the circumstances that emerged from these decisions. It is also desirable that we bear in mind that in mortgage transactions the raising to public deed is carried out or established as an essential element of the loan that is subscribed. And it is this elevation to public deed, which interests especially the lender - which through this document requires the lender of the money to be returned under the conditions that had been agreed -, which entails the deposit of the tax of the documented legal act. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u7	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u8	Thank you, Madam President. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as the lender is primarily interested in, because it is through this document that the conditions are laid down so that the money that has previously been lent can be returned, it is for this reason that we understand that the main interested party in this operation is the financial institution, and therefore it is the one who has to face this tax. Ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree-Law does not establish any more change than this, which is not in particular less important for the legal certainty of all parties from now on. The need to make this legislative amendment through a royal decree-law is justified by the urgency arising from the uncertainty that arose after the Supreme Court ruling. You can consult any of the statistics that will be published in the coming months on how many writings had been raised, and how many mortgage movements had occurred, because there was indeed a slowdown in the processing of these documents because of the doubt as to who had to deal with this tax or this tax. That is why it was urgent and necessary for the legal framework to be clear, so that this daily business activity, which involves the signing of the contract, would have clear rules, and therefore all the parties involved would know about their rights, but also know about their obligations; a clear legal framework for the citizenry in relation to the banking system, and also in relation to the public administration itself; that is, with the citizen who wants to have his taxes up to date and who has no doubt who is the one who has to deal with the raising of the mortgage with the documented legal act. If I would like to clarify to you, ladies and gentlemen, although it is not reflected in the actual decree-law, but it has been the subject of political discussion or opinion by the parliamentary groups, since it is a concern of a part of this plenary, that it was not possible to establish in the actual decree-law the retroactivity of the norm, because as you well know the Civil Code establishes generally that the rules have no retroactive effect, because it would involve dealing with past legal situations governed by a rule then in force, and that would affect the principle of legal certainty as set out in the Constitution, in Article 9.3. In particular, they do not escape that retroactivity in the laws, which is applied exceptionally, is not possible in this case. It is precisely in fiscal matters that the Constitutional Court's rulings are particularly clear: that this retroactivity cannot be applied when there is a third party who is obliged to pay or when there is a third party who has to deal retroactively with the payment with the public administration as a whole, which is the one who has to charge that tax. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, since the application of retroactivity is not possible, legal change can only take effect once it is published in the Official State Gazette. They also know that we will be vigilant so that the payment of this tax to the citizen does not have an impact. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, we appeal first of all, as in any rule, as in any democratic game, to the responsibility of those who intervene, and basically on this occasion to the responsibility of the financial sector. If we add to this the fact that the mortgage market is very competitive - therefore the free market in this circumstance operates in a special way - we understand that citizenship is not going to be affected. There will be financial institutions that obviously offer conditions for mortgage subscriptions that will obviously have better benefits, and citizens would tend to consume them on a regular basis by it. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, and especially those who remain strictly in the rules of the free market know that these kinds of movements are absorbed by financial institutions, so that there is no impact and that each one, in the offer of conditions, is able to establish which limits or parts seem to them most important when it comes to understanding the potential customer. However, and in order to ensure a more zealous manner on this issue, the Ministry of Economy is working to establish as soon as possible the financial client protection authority, which would be responsible, among other things, for avoiding these abusive clauses by financial institutions. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with only two notes on the amendment that we are bringing to validation today. The first, which refers to the exceptions that were previously established, also when subscribing to the lifting of the writing through the deposit of the tax of the documented legal act. Basically in all the entities all the circumstances that had previously been exempted in the signing of the agreement - mortgages of administrations, mortgages of non-profit entities, of the church, or of any other entity that serves the common good - are understood to be equally exempt, so that nothing changes with respect to the previous norm. Secondly, I would also like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the rule does not give rise to any doubt: in fact, each and every lender of the financial institutions that grant the loan has to face the debt of the tax or, in other words, there is no exception for any lender not to pay this tax, except in those circumstances, as he previously told them that they were already exempted by law, and that they have nothing to do with who the lender is, but with whom the legal or natural person in this case receives the money or the loan. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope and hope that the validation of this decree-law will have the acceptance of the majority of the parliamentary groups, because we believe that it expresses the same feeling and opinion of the different political groups, at least that is what we mean by the reaction that occurred after the sentence. It would be very interesting, and more interesting today, for this Parliament to have the capacity to adopt this royal decree-law unanimously, so that we have a common criterion in interpreting a rule that, as I say, has been controversial and so that all the conditions that have been collected from this situation return to a framework of legal interpretation, as we understand from the government that has to be asked, where it is the financial entities that are facing this tax for the benefit of mortgage clients who, in this circumstance, since its publication in the EB, no longer have to face the documented legal act, circumstance, ladies and gentlemen, that we hope that it will also contribute to the mobilization of the real estate sector, because it is undoubtedly an important engine in economic development. It is good and convenient that there be movements of home sales, because that will express that families have a greater income capacity and also that we have a dynamic economy in which this type of activity not only has an important gap, but also stimulates our productive, value and market fabric. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, by inviting them to vote in favour, these are the circumstances and arguments by which the Government decided to process this royal decree-law, no doubt responding to the concern, insecurity, but also to the citizenry expectation that most people have expressed, hoping that politicians will really deal with the problems that affect the people of the street, and let us forget the rift and the discussions, and let us be able at least in a matter such as this to express unanimity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Finance. We are faced with a validation that is the result of the controversial action of the Supreme Court on account of the interpretation of procedures dating back to the times when the Socialist Party also ruled over so-called mortgage expenses. It seems to us in the Forum that clarity should be sought in view of the legal uncertainty created by the palmarious difficulties of interpretation of the regulations, and especially in the defence of consumers who access to a mortgage loan and who to date have been taking charge of the costs of valuation, notarization, registration of property, management, and in the matter of taxation of documented legal acts. However, it has not seemed appropriate to us the propaganda rumor of the President of the Government promoting himself as the champion of a reform for which the Legislature, of which he himself became a part, found no time after more than two decades of force. It is also not clear that economist Pedro Sánchez was concerned about improving the mortgage conditions previously assumed by Caja Madrid's clients, although he did get them more advantageous because of their membership in the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support validation and also that it is used as a bill to try to prevent the consumer from being endorsed by various means of the equivalent of mortgage tax, which we believe should be abolished. By the way, today in Asturias we are already being announced by the Socialist and Left Party United to the alimon a next rise in the tax of documented legal acts. Tell him to give you the tax crank. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u11	Thank you very much. Also for the same group, you have the word Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in the Navarro People's Union we believe that the most effective and safest way to prevent banks from impacting the cost of this tax on mortgage borrowers would be to at least set a zero rate when they sign a mortgage loan for the purchase of their usual home, their first home. It is the same thing that we are going to put forward in the amendment of the foral tax that is being debated today in the House in Navarre. We have many serious doubts that this real decree-law, hasty and incomplete, can obtain by itself and with this text the purpose we all desire. Will the banks enter the tax? Yeah. But are you going to make a commitment not to pass it on? No, it is not sanctioned if they do, and it is not illegal to do so. Therefore, this royal decree leaves more unknown than guarantees. As I said, will it affect customers, will it be responsible, will it apply the autonomous maximum rate of 1,5 % throughout Spain? Will the Navarro customer who previously paid 0.5% pay 1.5% on a deferred basis? Will the banks affect 1.5%, which is the maximum, harmonised where appropriate, but will the bank enter 0.5%? A lot of doubts. What will the protection authority do: suggestions? How will you control it? Will it have sanctioning capacity? Who before paid it directly but had bonuses - large families, young people, people with disabilities - will now pay it back, more expensive and without them? Ladies and gentlemen, haste and demagogy are bad advisers and legislative populism in some way too. We are of course concerned about this legislation and would like to see all these doubts and incognites corrected by its handling as a bill. That being so, we believe that in that case and with these changes, it could guarantee the objectives proposed. I would also like to say that we are going to ask for it and, depending on it, we will fix our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u13	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u14	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. We start from the fact that the bank never loses. Therefore, thinking that it is not going to affect us is naive. He'll look for a way to do it. We must therefore end this vicious circle in which those who legislate always do so in favour of banking, and allow them to present an endless number of abusive clauses and not act against them. They do, that is, when they are misled by the courts, after the citizens have to defend themselves before the judges to claim their rights, and then they usually do so in disdain, late and in part. That is the perverse dynamic that has to change, and not respond now in haste to silence the criticisms of a judgment whose problem is not only what it has condemned, but that it has acted to change its own doctrine, a fact that has deepened in the discredit of Spanish justice. The question of the non-payment of the tax could be said to be an anecdote in that sea of abusive clauses that are allowed to the bank. They have to stop legislating in favour of banking; they have to act as they should in the defence of consumers, because having a home, a place to live in is a basic right that the laws and actions of banks today are denying and hindering. I dare to say that the tax, as it was drafted, but with the exception that Basque deputies today establish - leaving the first house exempt from their payment - protects citizens more than a point change like this, if it is not accompanied by quiet reforms and a mortgage law in favour of people, and that it prevents thousands of people from leaving the street, as is currently the case. If you want to be credible, bring to the vote a law that will put an end to this bloodthirsty, and put the right to housing in the center. Euskal Herria Bildu will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to announce, Minister, that Compromís will vote in favour of the decree. Among other things, a new Government can serve as a window of opportunity to pass this and other more ambitious laws that protect citizens. We will vote in favour, but we also remind you that before the Supreme Court reconsidered your decision, here in parliamentary office, from above, I told the president to change it, simply to do what they are doing now. We will always have the doubt whether the court would have dared to reconsider that solution earlier, and probably some citizens might have the right to recover the expenses they incurred at the time. We'll always have the doubt. But in any case we will vote in favour and encourage you to talk less about elections and more about the window of opportunity that has been opened in this Parliament, despite the friction of some, in order to be able to do many more things. This is timid; probably the banks will pass it on, but if we are brave we will be able to do many more things. So less elections and more actions, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u18	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree, and we are also going to request its processing as a bill. I think it is also good that from this rostrum a little self-criticism is made for everything that has happened in this matter, because the over-action of the President of the Government presenting a real decree to modify the article of the taxpayer in documented legal acts was book, because the truth is that someone wonders: and why didn't they do it before? Why did they not do so before, when they knew that the rule of procedure was giving all these interpretations? It is also by book what we are hearing over the last few days from the People's Party and others of its budget partners: that what needs to be done is to remove the tax. One wonders, and why did they not remove it in the last General Budgets of the State? Or why did they not take it out over the last few years, when the payer was not affected, when the payer was the borrower himself? In any case, Minister, we also have doubts, because I think they introduce something new. This is the first tax that is not going to be deductible from corporation tax, beyond the corporation tax itself, which creates some doubt and that I suppose someone will explain to us, because if we are not going to have to amend it, but not so that the wicked banks can not deduce it, but by a matter of legislative and tax coherence: either there are some taxes that are not deductible or all are deductible, but that except this case generates many doubts, simply from the realm of tax technique. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u20	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree, as has already been said, aims to amend the consolidated text of the Law on the Taxation of Heritage Transmissions and Documented Legal Acts. A royal decree that is the response to the legal chaos that has been caused by the Supreme Court in accordance with the decision to pay the tax on legal acts. A real decree that may perhaps have been processed somewhat quickly and somewhat improvised in our opinion, since we understand that there are certain gaps that can remain unresolved, such as subrogation, novation or succession of credit, some bonuses and reductions that exist on the tax for certain groups, its application or not to savings banks and credit cooperatives. Nor is there any differentiation about the concept of housing, which will perhaps require its processing as a bill. As you know we in Euskadi have our own regulations, and on the basis of it we have not had this problem mainly because the usual housing is exempt from this tribute. However, in the acquisition of second and successive housing we have to say that the taxable person in this case is the borrower and not the lender. Our situation has a global fit with our own IRPF, as we maintain the deduction for habitual housing. This is why this group is not going to enter into a more rigorous analysis either by the use of the figure of the royal decree-law nor on the substance of the matter, because the outside territories have normative capacity in this tax, imposed in autonomous regulations, by virtue of the concert, and it is up to the deputies to make any decision about it. Therefore this group will abstain in the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u22	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister, deputies and deputies. Santander Bank sees no reason why mortgage tax should be retroactive. The future president of BBVA on the mortgage tax: 'You cannot penalize the person who has complied with the law'. Bankia trusts that the Supreme's decision on the mortgage tax will not be retroactive. Number two of CaixaBank calls for banks not to have an economic impact on mortgage tax. The president of the Sabadell expects the Supreme to back down on the mortgage tax by the bank. Bankinter's chief: The banks have not influenced the Supreme's decision on the mortgage tax. What I have just read is press headlines from before and after the President of the Supreme Court's Dispute-Administrative Chamber issued an information note ruling that the judgment of the Second Chamber of the same court, which twenty-four hours earlier had ruled that it should be the responsibility of the banks to pay the tax on documented legal acts, was invalid. This decision was justified in the economic and social impact that the judgment could have. This is a full-fledged scandal, ladies and gentlemen. A scandal that in a medium, normal democracy would have caused the entire judicial dome to resign immediately. In fact, it has been this change of view, unprecedented in the entire democratic judicial history of the State, which has really caused social alarm in a country where the powerful, rule-rulers, always win. The perception that has remained among citizens after all these events is that the bank always wins, that the pressure of financial institutions and calls from certain offices caused a dry hold of the Supreme Court in just 24 hours, a very serious event in a rule of law. Esquerra Republicana believes that it is the banks that must pay the tax and that it is enough of the impunity that they have enjoyed during all these years. We are also in favour of them paying the retroactivity of the tax. We would like to recall that, during the bank bailout, EUR 60 billion was injected into the banking institutions of this country, which committed themselves to returning that money and have not done so despite the fact that the profits of these institutions have far exceeded this figure. We also regret the reaction of some of them when they have said that, even if they are charged this tax, they will have an impact on citizens so that they do not lose their profits. What a tough face! What a tough face! We can put figures to give birth to this misconception. The six main Spanish banks have declared a net profit of EUR 13.9 billion from January to September this year, while it is estimated that assuming the cost of the tax would cost EUR 640 million. We will support this royal decree-law by conviction, although we also understand that the PSOE government has acted with some opportunism. We wonder why, for example, they have not reacted so forcefully to other effects that citizens suffer from the power of the banks. Why don't they solve the collapse of the courts by the ground clauses at once? There are thousands of people who have been waiting months for resolution and who continue to pay too much. And the legislative measures to stop the IRPH where are they? I'm done, President. As I said before, we are going to support this royal decree-law and request that it be treated as a bill to introduce amendments on some issue that is not clear to us, such as how credit unions stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, let me tell you, Minister, that we are very happy to see you here, but we would like you to be here whenever and whenever it is your duty to do so. The Supreme Court's ruling has obviously caused a social shock - and I think we all agree on that - along with a certain sham and discredit, especially exploited by some who take advantage of such rulings, and I am not referring to the judicial ruling but to the error. An error that was admitted by the president of the Supreme Court himself. Therefore, when it was the highest instance of that power that recognized that this had not been properly managed, it will not be we who deny it. He didn't do well. Basically there is a problem of legal indefinition, we have for many years with a rule that is not clear and with another rule that interprets - as we now know by the judges - irregularly or unjustly that law of higher rank. I think that so far we all agree, but it would hardly fit into reality if the image that emerged, the image that we projected about Spanish public opinion, was that there is a unanimous agreement that this has been done wrong and that there is a desire to do it right. Well, yeah, we all want to do it right, we're not going to judge intentions, but we don't all come from the same place and do the same and we don't all show the same consistency. Let me remind you that there is some cynicism in this House. Bipartisanism has not moved a coma in twenty-three years on this law of difficult interpretation because of its ambiguity. Podemos's framework programme in the 2015 autonomic elections envisaged raising the tax on documented legal acts. With the best of wills and even accepting that you now say that you want to do what you say you want to do for a deep conviction, acknowledge that the fact that you want to raise that tax and take it on a framework program of the autonomous ones leaves you some credibility. At least recognize that, don't you? [[Applauds]] But in 2012, the United Socialist and Left Party raised the tax on legal acts documented in Andalusia from 1% to 1.5%, and in 2013 the People's Party, with an absolute majority in the Valencian Community, raised the tax that it now wants to abolish from 1% to 1.5%. By the way, that of wanting to abolish a tax and also do it in this enthusiastic way only happens to them when it comes to taxes on the bank? Because while he hasn't been to the bank, no one remembered that. It is curious, at the time when the tax is on banking you feel a need to delete it immediately. Recognize all those I have mentioned who do not enjoy full and absolute credibility. We're on. In 2015 Podemos and the Socialist Party raised the tax on legal acts documented in Aragon from 1% to 1.5%. That of 1 or 1.5 is a lot and I say it because now, when you have a moment to make a little comparison about the main countries in our environment, you will see that that is a lot of money. It is also unfair in comparison because there are countries comparable to us where this tax does not exist and because there are countries where this tax is 0,05 %. With regard to the autonomous communities of common system, the lowest are the Canary Islands and Madrid, with 0.75%, which is very high compared to countries in our environment. I mean, the lowest ones are high. The trend, however, if we look at the totality of the communities and the time of application, has been to equalize rates by 1.5%. So, so that people can see it better, if we go, for example, to the fiscal system of Valencia, it can cost 3000 euros for a mortgage of 200 000 euros or 1500 euros in Madrid for a mortgage of 200 000 euros. To this certain cynicism I would add little care - I do not want to use the word chapuza because as here yesterday the spirits were very warmed up I want to be very careful - or that they were not entirely careful. Why? For the most likely unconstitutionality in the refusal of deductible expenditure on corporate tax. The Government was left in this royal decree law outside the savings boxes and if it were not for the amendment that our colleague Francisco de la Torre introduced in the presentation of the reform of the Mortgage Law, this privilege would have been perpetuated, which is a privilege incompatible with the minimum equality of competence. I would also tell you that there is a lot of improvisation because Spain has borne this tax for 23 years. As time runs out, I go directly to comparison, which is the best way to understand how much this makes sense or doesn't make sense. In the United Kingdom there is no such thing, in the Netherlands there is no such thing, in Germany there is no such thing and if we go to the amounts on a mortgage of 200 000 euros, in Spain there are 2800; in Portugal, which is the next, 1200; in Italy 500 euros would be paid and in France 120 euros. In any case, what we want is to free families not only from this burden but from the less visible and less quantifiable burden of a less transparent regime. We are going to vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree-law because the Spanish mortgage market would not stand, it would not stand another change in criteria; we are going to vote in favour, but we are going to ask for its processing as a bill. I'm just telling you that we're very happy that everyone is with this now, but that everyone has the history they have and that it's good to be told by people too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u25	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u26	Thank you, President. Minister, a few months ago, when in this very forum we were defending the consideration of the housing law of the mortgage-affected platform, we have already denounced the years of delay in this House in amending mortgage legislation that blatantly overprotects the interests of financial institutions from the rights of those who sign a mortgage to access housing. Today, we again say something very similar, on the day that the government asks Congress to validate the royal decree amending the Law on the Tax on Heritage Transmissions and Documented Legal Acts, which says, at last, that this tax must be paid by the banks. The problem is that, as always, despite the fact that the minister now says that there is a great deal of urgency, you are going very late because it has been eight months since our parliamentary group proposed that this law be amended so that this tax is paid by the bank. What was the PSOE telling us then? Well, no. What was the PP telling us? Well, no. What did Citizens say? No, I don't. What did the PNV and the PDECAT say? Well, no and no. Paradoxes of life, right? For things so far away and, instead, when it comes to shielding the privileges of the bank, all so close and all so agreed. [[Applauds]] Now, on the other hand, those same groups that for eight months were telling us that no, are outraged, are exclaimed, all are promises, for, ladies and gentlemen, let me express this, but it is that with this story they have seen the plumer to all, to all. They have only moved when the scandal of the Supreme broke out and when they have seen that the indignation of the people could also hold them accountable for this injustice, but the reality is that when you had to face for citizenship, you did not give it. Moreover, not only are you late, but you have made a decree that continues to try to cover your backs to the banks as much as you can, because if you do not explain to us why the Government has decided that this royal decree will give a new tax benefit to the bank and will be exonerated from paying the tax when the mortgages are granted to the State, the Church, a political party or an NGO. We believe that it is the bank that must pay taxes in all the mortgage constitutions and yet you exempt them in such cases. In addition, why the bank is expected to be able to deduct tax on corporate tax for the remainder of the year. The bank should have faced 100 percent of the tax from the zero minute of its approval. But this is even worse because they did not want to consider the retroactivity of this legal change, which unfortunately means that until European justice comes and says otherwise, no one is going to give those people back what they have paid extra over the past four years. The Government owes all of them an apology for not wanting to do so. The truth is that none of this surprises us already because what has happened with this tax for eight months or what is happening with the new mortgage law that is being dealt with in this House, where in key issues PP, PSOE, PNV and PDeCAT agree over and over again, is something that we already know and that, unfortunately, we have already suffered many times. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u27	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u28	The wheel of the real estate bubble, which feeds a predatory financial sector, which pushes speculation and leaves the right to housing in second, third or fourth place does not feed itself, requires legislation that encourages and protects it, requires political parties that, by action or omission, allow no change to be made in this House without first consulting with those who have always decided. Only ten years ago, we suffered brutally the consequences of these policies: hundreds of thousands of evictions, runaway families, soil clauses, preferences, bank bailouts, cuts in public services, and after that bubble brought us the precariousness of the rent, the privatization of the few public houses we had in this country, the red carpet for the vulture funds, which now, by the way, threaten the Government to fail to fulfil its commitment that the municipalities can limit the abusive ups of the rents. And what's the result of that wheel? The result is that today, ten years later, the rent is so expensive and so unstable that people are getting back mortgaged. Mortgage prices go up again and all that happens without the law being changed in this House to prevent anyone who cannot pay their mortgage from ending up on the street and with an unpaid debt. All that happens ten years later; we're still the same. That is why this royal decree presented to us today is nothing better than a patch; a patch that works in two directions: on the one hand, it serves to cover the shames of most of the members of this House who for eight months have looked elsewhere and, on the other, it is also a patch because it serves to give a tiny solution to a much bigger problem. Because it can be legislated to try to win a title, but it is clear that citizenship requires fundamental reforms that guarantee the right to a decent housing; reforms, by the way, such as those contained in our pre-agreement of budgets that reverse the cuts in housing and that allow the municipalities to start pinching the bubble of rent; reforms also such as those in my group's amendments to the real estate credit law that we reminded you last week once again: payback, no eviction without housing alternative and avoid the presumptive flood of evictions that comes if that new law serves to whitewash the bank's abuses. That and don't patch it up is what citizenship demands. Today we will vote yes, but we also make it clear that neither this rule is sufficient nor do we believe that the Government is doing what is necessary to adopt a new mortgage law that guarantees the right to decent housing and protects citizens from bank abuse. In the same vein, I would like to reflect on the pre-agreement of budgets which your Government has agreed with our parliamentary group. At times you seem to want to give up an agreement that, among many other things, includes not only an ambitious rent reform that we need as air but also a 38% increase in the housing budget, which is absolutely essential for us to begin to recover the land that the PP has given to the vultures during their years of government. So stop thinking about electoral calculus and get to work really hard to get the necessary support because it's your responsibility and too often it seems like this isn't going with you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are strong arguments for this House to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. It seeks to close an open social debate that is urgently needed, clear and sensible. The Socialist Group would like to stress the reasons for this, but also to highlight the effective action of the Government in responding quickly to a situation of great uncertainty and legal uncertainty in the mortgage market. On 6 November, most of the citizens were surprised and concerned by a new court decision, by which the Supreme Court changed its view in less than two weeks. He contradicted himself by putting at risk his own credibility with regard to who should be in charge of the payment of the tax by registering a mortgage loan, i.e. who should be in charge of paying the tax on documented legal acts, which is the one that is due in such transactions. He resolved that he had to pay the tax that requested the loan, when weeks earlier the same room in three judgments argued just the opposite. In that judgment it was said that the person who had to pay the tax was the lender, it was the bank, and not the borrower, and that, therefore, they annulled point 2 of article 68 of the regulation of this tax on the grounds that it was contrary to the law; annulment, of course - as you know - that made it impossible to fix a period of request for retroactiveity, in addition to all the arguments that the Minister of Finance herself has very well specified in her intervention. Those judgments already entailed a change in the previous case law which merely corroborated the complexity and instability of the fiscal legal framework governing this type of tax, an instability that led to a situation of legal uncertainty leading to the reduction of acts of formalization of this type of loan. In fact, we know - as the minister herself has also said - that people who had negotiated a mortgage loan with their respective banks at the end of October and for some days saw the registration act paralyzed until definitive clarification was made as to who should assume the payment of the tax once the contradictory jurisprudence on this matter had been established, which was not happening until now. But the new resolution of November, just to the contrary, did not mean a simple correction to some judgments, the matter in itself transcended the purely legal sphere to become a social issue - even some came to rate it as alarming - and required urgent government policy action to provide a clear and stable legal framework, especially in such an important sector of the Spanish economy. In fact, it has not been remembered by many of the speakers who have preceded me in the word, but the reality is that many of you have spoken precisely in this sense; not only the hemerotec is a witness to this, but also the initiatives that some groups presented to the situation described, not before but at that time. Therefore, the first reason for the extraordinary and urgent need of the decree was more than justified. The second reason is that the ad hoc amendment made in the decree of the law regulating the tax is clear and sensible. Ladies and gentlemen, the more complex the situation is - and the case before us has proved to be so in legal terms - the more clarity must be offered when giving an answer and the Government has done so: it was quick, concrete and it was clear that the tax must be paid by the person acting as a lender. The amendment, in fact, has been very limited in line with the determination of the taxable person and the non-regardability as corporate deductible expenditure for the payment of the tax to ensure that it does not actually have an impact on the State. But, moreover, all the technical questions that you still raise as doubts, if you had listened attentively to the minister would have been clearly clear to you, with which technically and legally the law is very well defined in this regard. From a political point of view, we also understand that it is fair and sensible to stand on the side of the weakest, which are consumers, citizens themselves, in the negotiation of such operations and today each group will also explain with its vote which side it wants to be on and which side it is on. We already know - we have heard it in the morning - that some are trying to eliminate the tax and have expressed it. This tax is passed on to the communities and, in fact, it is estimated that more than 2 billion communities are collected for it. Therefore, in the first place, we cannot share the elimination of the same. This is a very necessary income to continue to finance the public services for which the autonomous communities are competent. It is the communities that have to provide education, health and social care services. In fact, I am surprised that the People's Party has raised a zero variable tax rate. I do not think it is very graceful for communities such as Murcia or Castile and León, governed by the People's Party, which are charging the maximum tax rate of 1.5%, which they have to stop having these resources. Look, the tax drop speech is very populist, but please don't fool people. When you announce tax eliminations, tell us what services you are going to stop taking care of or where you are going to get the income you need to maintain the services that will make up for this revenue elimination. [[Applauds]] Say it, say it, don't fool the citizenry. Therefore, we cannot share that the variable fee is zero and much less now that we are proposing that the tax be paid by the financial institution without it being able to pass on its cost to the customer because, from our point of view, there is room for this not to happen. The mortgage market is very competitive and, in this sense, in the short and medium term it is difficult to have a non-significant cost in the transaction. In addition, the regulator ensures competition to avoid oligopolistic agreements and, as you are well aware, the government will create an authority that protects the financial customer and avoids bad practices in the mortgage market, so in this case what the People's Party and many others are proposing would not reduce the cost of the transaction, it would only mean a greater benefit for the banks. So, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is seen too much by the plumber and while the customer was paying for it they certainly never formally proposed this elimination. The real interests that the right is defending are clear; the tax reduction already knows that it does not respond to a general interest. But to lower this tax is not a measure that facilitates access to the first housing, but measures to facilitate access to housing are the ones that the Socialist Government is pushing from the Ministries of Development, Economy and Justice by channelling resources, improving mortgage recovery and increasing the protection of citizens, especially the most disadvantaged in just four months of government. We all know that the economic crisis has had many victims, Mr de Podemos. The difficult financial situation of many families has had dire consequences, including the loss of their homes. It is true that there have been many unprotected people during this harsh period of time of crisis. The Government was aware of that and was therefore working from the outset in coordination with the various ministries to protect the most vulnerable groups. Therefore, Madam President - and I finish - I also want to say, because some speakers have said this, that the Ministry of Economy, with the processing of the law on real estate credit, is pushing for measures to ensure that most of the costs arising from signing a mortgage credit are borne by financial institutions and to achieve the permanent application of the code of good banking practice in all mortgage loans and not just for those prior to 2012, as it was so far. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Government is proving to be sensitive to the most vulnerable and to the protection of the general interest, as it has done with this royal decree-law acting swiftly, responsibly and rightly, and it is now up to this House to respond along the same lines. The Socialist Group will therefore vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are witnessing a new chapter on the issue of the tax on documented legal acts, the tax on mortgages, and I am saying a new chapter because unfortunately it is not the final chapter. The government's haste, perhaps because it is more populist than its parliamentary partners in Podemos, has led them to bring a decree-law, from my point of view, in too much haste. It suffers from significant gaps, such as savings banks and credit unions, which may pose problems in the first concession market given the rates paid in the subrogation and may pose very clear problems of unconstitutionality. We can establish how we want who is the taxable person of a tax or we can establish what the deductible expenses are, but what is clear is that we have to do it by law, not by decree. A law is being processed, the law on real estate credit contracts and yet you have preferred to go quickly, forget that a law is being processed in Congress that can precisely regulate this issue and, by running more than your populist partners in Podemos, we are going to encounter judicial problems and this issue will not be closed. This decree also highlights Mr Sánchez's peculiar manner of government, and I am not referring to what is defined by the uncertainty, changes in criteria or corrections of Mr Sánchez and his ministers and ministers, but to that peculiar way of governing by making believe through words and actions that is not true. They say they can increase the deficit because they have an agreement with Brussels, and that is not true. They say the AIReF backs its accounts, but it's fake. They say they're going to have income that no one believes, simply because it's not true. And I wouldn't want to tell you that cheating is what defines your stay in the Moncloa; I'm left alone with the synonyms conceal or appear. Mr Sánchez presented himself with a regenerating desire to return the truth and prestige to the institutions and turned out to be a fraud even in his personal résumé. The Government presented itself as the beautiful Government and turned out to be the hidden picture of Dorian Gray's portrait: the hasty resignation of two ministers in record time; the repeated faults in the truth of the doubly reprobated Minister of Justice, at the major notary time of the Kingdom; the widespread use of societies interposed as an instrument for acquiring housing - general use in the Council of Ministers - that Mr Sánchez, as secretary general of the PSOE, seemed to be reprehensible behavior, but as president of the Government it seems to him something that can be applauded, according to this unfolding of his personality that the Vice-President of the Government revealed to us at his already mythical press conference. Mr Sánchez is able to state solemnly - I open quotes - 'never again will the Spaniards pay the tax of documented legal acts' - I close quotes - and, a few seconds later, say 'we have to wait and trust the responsibility of the banks so that the tax does not affect the citizens'. What are we left with, with the solemn phrase that citizens will never pay for it again, or with the solemn phrase that they do not know what is going to happen and in the end will have to pay for it by the citizens? The Minister of Finance, as the luminaire of the Spanish Public Treasury, did not delay in seconding the president - I open quotes, minister -: 'We will be attentive - you said - to whether the financial institutions will pass on the tax to the citizens'. The minister will be 'attention'. And minister, from your attention, what derives from it? Were you imagining the bankers of the nervous boards, getting up and saying 'Mrs. Montero will be watching'? Madam Minister, you said that you were going to be careful and done: the financial institutions began to tighten the conditions for granting the credits, obliging them to pay even more than the amount that would have been derived from assuming the tax on documented legal acts. So that no one can tell them that, even in this case, they are missing the truth, so that no one can tell them that they manipulate or deceive, tell them what is true, even this time alone. You know, Minister, they're not proposing that the tax be paid by the banks, but how the mortgages are going to pay them. Who do you want to make believe that the tax is not going to end up paying consumers? Who does not pass on to the customer the increase of its costs? If what we want is for the Spaniards not to pay the tax on documented legal acts, what we have to do is to eliminate it with a zero rate. Mr. Girauta, you can detect a certain cynicism in some that we have history, but we're all having history. I do not know whether in the ten years that you have been in the Parliament of Catalonia you have proposed that this tax should be lifted, but I do know, Mr Girauta, that you have never proposed it here, for three years now and could have done so. What can't be said is that now the banks are going to pay for it because it's not true, Mr. Girauta. Do not fall into that trap, because they will pay each and every citizen, since there is no company that, due to an increase in its costs, does not affect the payment of the tax to the Spaniards. Let's do it, let's do this zero tax because if we're not in the policy of disguise, we'll be in the tax populism that says that taxes are raised to pay the rich and, in the end, as with diesel, it's paid by the Spanish middle classes. I'm done with one last idea. If the rich are going to pay it now, Minister, who were you forcing to pay this tax when you were an advisor to the Government of Andalusia and you increased it by 50%? To whom did the PSPV and Compromís oblige when they climbed it to the maximum in Valencia? Or the Socialist Party of Aragon and Podemos when they climbed it in the Aragonese lands? [[Applauds]] PSOE, Compromís and Podemos, all raising the tax of legal acts documented to the citizens, to the people - as you would say - and in a few months we witness the paradox that the same parties that agree to raise the tax, knowing that it would be the consumers who had to pay it, are now presenting themselves cheatfully - as the Spanish left usually does - to the citizens telling them that we do not want them to pay the taxes after they do. Ladies and gentlemen, let us pass this decree as a bill and introduce our amendments so that it is not the Spaniards who have to pay this tax and the truth prevails in the tax policy of this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u33	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 18/2018, OF 8 NOVEMBER, ON EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF CARRETERS. [[File number 130/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 18/2018 of 8 November 2018 on urgent road measures. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. I appear before this House to submit for its consideration the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2018, on urgent measures in the field of roads, after its approval by the Council of Ministers on 8 November. By means of this royal decree-law is introduced in Law 37/2015, of 29 September, on roads, several modifications as a matter of urgency and for the benefit of the public interest in general. Firstly, a very serious new infringement is introduced to penalise the possible negligence of concessionary companies when they cause significant harm to users and in addition there are circumstances in which the current serious infringement is insufficient. It is a matter of strengthening the sanctioning regime for serious infringements and more in proportion to the harm caused to the user in these situations. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u37	The urgency of this legal measure is justified by the proximity in the application of the winter viability plans by the concessionary companies, in order to try to ensure the continuity and quality of the service provided to users. The second of the reforms included in this Royal Decree-Law allows for road or environmental safety reasons to prohibit the movement of certain heavy vehicles on conventional roads, forcing them to travel on motorways. These measures, which are subsequently carried out through agreements or royal decrees, are accompanied by various bonuses to the carriers and have already proved their effectiveness in the sections in which they have been implemented to date, reducing the sinestrality in them. As I will detail below, it is only a question of giving the necessary legal coverage in the future to such measures in order to be able to apply them, for example, in the AP-7, in the province of Castellón, giving continuity to the measure already implemented in Catalonia in September, as some of the groups present here have asked us. Unlike what the press has collected these past days, it is not a question of any other matter; it is an exceptional, justified, timely measure which also entails the corresponding bonuses. I'm saying it because there's been someone who thought we were gonna get the trucks off the roads. Nothing more fake. It is simply a matter of covering up a measure implemented by the previous Government. Thirdly, changes are introduced in the Roads Act to give legal coverage to the possible collection of tolls by the State Society of Land Transport Infrastructures that has assumed the operation of certain toll highways that have reverted in advance to the State, which we colloquially know as toll highways rescued. The collection of these tolls was so far covered by concession contracts that have already been extinguished. Therefore, in order to continue the exploitation of these motorways, it is necessary to have a legal rule that protects Seittsa's perception of the new tolls approved by the Government under section 22 of the Roads Act. In this case, beyond the technical details, the only change that could have taken place on the part of the management of Seittsa would be positive, and it is that we are proposing a general decrease of the tolls on the radial highways, on the so-called rescued ones, in order to stimulate the traffic and thus achieve greater increments of safety and we also think that greater economic contribution. Finally, the Royal Decree-Law amends the Roads Act to allow the approval of construction projects to imply the declaration of urgent occupation of property for expropriation purposes. This is intended not to delay the completion of the works, in particular the execution of works of lesser economic size but aimed at improving road safety: improvements in route, actions in stages of concentration of accidents, etc. With these modifications, the Ministry of Promotion aims to facilitate and provide greater legal coverage of actions aimed at improving road safety, as well as ensuring the provision of service for toll freeways, offering the best possible level of service to users. Having said that, I shall then go on to describe in more detail the content of the royal decree-law, whose validation we are debating today in this House. It consists of a single article, a derogation provision, a transitional provision and a final provision. The single article amends three articles of Law 37/2015 of 21 September on Roads, in addition to adding a new provision additional to the aforementioned normative text. Article 12(2) of the Roads Act is first amended to allow the approval of construction projects to involve the declaration of urgent occupation of the property for expropriation purposes. The aim of this measure, as I have said before, is not to delay the execution of works where necessary. We also aim to reduce the high level of user involvement involved in road works, which must be minimized by using all the mechanisms that the standard allows. The reasons for the urgency of this change arise from the need for the future road construction projects to be immediately implemented by this forecast in order to ensure compliance with the public interest or its construction without the need to make a declaration of public utility or social interest on a case-by-case basis. It should be noted that the current wording of section 12 of the Roads Act requires a series of additional administrative procedures to be carried out for any type of road work, regardless of its size and main purpose. In particular, there are works of little economic value but which have a significant impact on road safety - such as actions in accident concentration stages, local layout improvements, improved intersections and links, etc. - and whose recruitment is urgent, given their impact on safety. The ordinary process of amending the law would require a much longer period of time with the consequent delay in the commissioning of these proceedings and the delay in achieving road safety improvements. In addition, the Royal Decree-Law adds in its single article a new paragraph to article 38 of the Roads Act to allow for road or environmental safety reasons the mandatory diversion of heavy vehicles to toll roads on certain roads. This change is very important because, as I have said on previous occasions, security is a priority for the Government. All our actions in the field of transport we want to address them with this fundamental priority, reconciling improvements in this field with the effects of the implementation of the necessary measures on users. In this sense, within the State Roads Network there are conventional roads that support a high traffic of vehicles, which sometimes leads to serious problems of congestion and safety in their passage through different regions and localities. We believe that this problem can be improved if the traffic of heavy vehicles is shifted to motorways, whose characteristics in terms of layout and capacity are higher than those of conventional roads. The balance sheet that emerges from the development of these types of measures in those areas where they have been implemented has proved to be very effective, with an immediate and significant positive impact on the exploitation of the roads concerned. We've been seeing him for years at N-II in Girona. Another example would be in La Rioja. From the beginning of the diversion of heavy vehicles from N-332 and N-124 to AP-68, effective from 2 December 2017, until today there has been no fatal accident on these roads. Nine fatal accidents occurred in the same period of the previous year with eleven people killed. Also, since the 2nd of September, mandatory diversions to heavy vehicles have started to be applied in Catalonia and the Valencian Community in various sections of the N-240 and N-340 to direct them to the sections near the AP-2 and AP-7, respectively. The fact that the diversion of traffic may be made compulsory under certain circumstances attributes this same character to the payment of the toll, which justifies the use of a rule such as the proposal to improve the legal coverage covered by this measure. I should like to warn you that all of these actions were undertaken by the previous Government and, therefore, what is intended is to give the necessary legal coverage to the actions of the previous Government. In addition, the Royal Decree-Law adds a new subparagraph (k) to section 41(2) of the Roads Act in order to establish as a very serious infringement the possible negligence of road dealers when this causes significant harm to users and in addition there are circumstances in which the current classification as a serious infringement is insufficient. The aim is to avoid situations in which the penalties that may be imposed on concessionaires by open files as a result of this type of negligence are very small in proportion to the damage caused, as happened last January when thousands of cars were trapped as a result of snow on the AP-6 motorway. In this case, the imminent implementation in the coming months of the corresponding winter road plans justifies the urgent need for the immediate availability of the necessary legal means, in this case of sanction, to ensure the continuity and quality of the service provided to users. Finally, through the Royal Decree-Law, a new additional provision is added to the Roads Act to provide legal coverage for the collection of tolls by the State company Seittsa by assuming, where appropriate, the operation of certain toll freeways that have reversed or that revert to the State. This is the case with the management that Seittsa is currently developing of the radial motorways. In order to continue on the part of this society with the exploitation of these motorways and to allow, where appropriate, the exploitation of others, it is considered necessary to have a legal rule that protects the perception by Seittsa of the new tolls approved by the Government. As you know, the Spanish Government has been analysing different possibilities for managing the competing motorways that were promoted by previous governments. Until the actions to be carried out are defined, the State has assumed control of the operation through Seittsa under the direct management agreement signed in August 2017 with the General Administration of the State, except in the case of AP-41, for which it is expected to assume its management in early 2019. The urgency of this measure is justified by the fact that it is not possible to process a bill in such a way that it is in force before the end of the management agreement signed with the company, which is 31 December 2018. In addition, the Royal Decree has an derogatory provision in which, in order to avoid regulatory dispersion in the regulation of Seittsa in relation to road management and construction, Article 158 of Law 13/1996 of 30 December of fiscal, administrative and social measures is repealed. In short, ladies and gentlemen, four points. One has to do - I insist - with giving proportionality to serious infringements so that they do not have a sanction as light as those we saw with respect to the last winter snowfalls. Two, to facilitate construction projects so that the declaration of public utility can be implicit in order to expedite the necessary expropriations. Three, to cover a measure repeatedly adopted by the previous Government that lacks sufficient legal coverage, in the case of the diversion of heavy vehicles from conventional roads, and four, to allow Seittsa to continue to manage the rescued highways. Therefore, what we do is try to improve the management of the People's Party. It has no other reason to make it possible for those actions to be carried out without anyone being able to denounce us or object to any legal problem, as is happening right now with the diversion of the vehicles in AP-7 as they pass through Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u38	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to start by making two requests. The first, rather than a request, would be a plea to all of us. As we say in Valencian, fem a thought - let's make a thought - let's keep the beasts in the caves or one day the beasts will be majority here. The second request is for Minister Ábalos, and I do it because I believe it is an urgent and unreplaceable request and I appeal to his status as Valencian. I have been in Congress for seven years and so far I have resisted doing so, but I believe that the gravity of the situation deserves the gesture, an absolutely innocuous gesture. [[Show an orange]] This is an orange; it's not a Valencian orange, it's a South African orange. It has travelled more than 12,000 kilometers to reach a supermarket in Madrid. Apart from the carbon footprint for transport, the problem is that millions of South African oranges invade markets and supermarkets across Europe, also here in Madrid, under the trade agreement with South Africa. This orange was bought last night and the sign said it very clearly : Orange; variety, Cambria; origin, South African Republic. [[shows a poster]] While these oranges flood the supermarkets, the Valencian oranges, but also the Andalusians, the bats, those of Tarragona, stay in the tree or have to be sold as a result. That is why - and I am very grateful to you, Madam President, for your generosity - I call on you, Madam President, in the next Council of Ministers, as a matter of urgency, to urge the Commission of the European Union to apply the safeguard clause of Article 34 of the agreement, so as not to sink all the farmers even further - to insist, Valencians, Andalusians, Batians and Tarraconians - and so that the collidors, who are the figures who have to win the paper by collecting oranges, can continue to win newspapers. As for the actual decree, we will vote in favour of it because, first, we have already claimed two weeks ago that the trucks running along the national roads N-340 and N-332 as they passed through La Marina, La Safor or the Baix Maestrat were diverted by the AP-7 and that both the trucks and the recurring drivers also had the same bonuses that apply in certain sections of Catalonia. We are in favour of tightening sanctions on concessionaries who do not comply with concessions and we are in favour of speeding up the administrative process, because those who manage public works see that they sometimes take too long. Finally, we understand that the seventh additional provision - and I am finished - will be used to provide legal coverage for toll collection and will apply only to rescued motorways. In this sense, the position of Compromís is unequivocal: we are against continuing to pay and, if studied, to study, but that this applies only to these motorways. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u40	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u41	Thank you very much, President. Mr Minister, I agree with Mr Baldoví's orange request - which is not for Citizens, do not get nervous - because it obviously also affects my constituency and Catalonia. [[laughs]] Having said that, Minister, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. We agree with the four objectives that it sets out. It seems reasonable to us to give greater coverage to these measures of diversion of heavy traffic by highways. We understand that this is done in accordance with the competences of the Autonomous Communities. In fact, they are the competent bodies in the management of traffic and it is clear that in Catalonia it is the Servei Català de Trànsit; competences that we maintain since the 1980s. It is therefore reasonable for us to be able to give it greater coverage. We also find it reasonable to increase the sanctioning power with respect to concessionaires who fail to comply and who transfer their non-compliance to users. In this respect, the proposal seems to us to be correct. With regard to the possibility of Seittsa covering the tolls, it is also reasonable. I give you the same warning as the previous speaker has given you: we understand that the wording could be interpreted as referring not only to the rescued motorways but also to those which complete their concession. But as we believe in his word and, above all, we believe in the vote of the Socialist Group which has been clearly positioned, we understand that this mechanism is not going to be used to extend concessions but to manage them from Seittsa. We believe that a calm and reasoned debate needs to be held - from our group we have called for it on different occasions - on how these high-performance routes should be financed in the medium and long term. In addition, he knows that in Catalonia we have a proposal which we have made extensively and which is, in any case, subject to debate. Therefore, Minister, we are going to give you our favourable vote, although, I repeat, so that no one has any doubts - especially on these benches - this royal decree-law has not been consulted previously either with this spokesman or with our group. But it seems reasonable to us, it seems to us that it will improve the situation of the Catalans and essentially of the users of the motorways in Catalonia and we will give them our vote in favour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u43	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of this royal decree-law is four measures: to impose mandatory diversion in certain circumstances on motorways; to classify as serious certain infringements of concessionaires on certain occasions of negligence; to allow the approval of road projects to imply their declaration of public utility in view of their expropriation; and, finally, to allow the collection of tolls, especially in the case of roads returned to State society, but it can also be understood that, generally speaking, for others. While this figure of the royal decree-law goes hand in hand with its declaration of urgency or need for urgent approval, which is in turn the result of different reasons that are set out in the preamble: to deal with the high sinestrality of some sections of roads; the imminent implementation in the coming months of the road plans for the convenience of speeding up road construction projects; and the imminent completion of the validity of the agreement signed with Seittsa, the state trading society. All of them seem reasonable to us and, therefore, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law, not without first making a precision and it is that we understand that this royal decree-law in principle will result from no or very little impact on the Basque Country, since in principle - being competent in the matter of roads the outlaws - there are only two small sections of AP-1 and AP-68 pending transfer. Moreover, at this date it is assumed that there is already an agreement for the transfer of the piece of AP-1 that remains untransferred - a small piece of 5 kilometers - and we hope from the Minister and his Government that there is also the will to effect the transfer of a section of AP-68 between Burgos and Vizcaya that runs through the territory of Vizcaya. So, with no objection and understanding that they are measures that do not affect us too much are favorable, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u45	Thank you, President. Another decree. We don't know how many are already going; that's what you have to govern with 84 deputies, depending on partners not always strictly aligned with common interests or the Constitution, who ask and ask and sometimes even spit them out. [[Applauds]] We are imbued with this commitment to the agreement that Mr Baldoví has presented to us, no doubt influenced by the orange he was wearing. The contents of his decree-law some doubts have raised us, the truth. Of the four points, the first, as they say, assigns a new power to the Government: to impose the mandatory diversion of heavy goods vehicles to toll roads, with the payment of tolls, for safety or environmental reasons. For security reasons, in principle, they already have competence, it is up to the Directorate-General for Traffic. As far as environmental reasons are concerned, that is all; I suppose they relate to cases - you have said - where there are bonuses, such as that of the AP-7. In any case, you have to polish it. The second point is that it is a very serious infringement of the negligence of road dealers when they cause injury. We agree, of course. From the third: enable Seittsa to take charge of tolls and the exploitation of motorways that reverse the state, we are now talking about it, if you like. And the fourth, that the approval of the construction projects implies the declaration of urgent occupation for expropriation purposes. They are four heterogeneous points that, depending on how they are combined, in one way or another, seem one thing or another, and in some cases they may even arouse some concern. For example, combined with point one and three, they could relate to the desire that you advanced that all high-capacity routes be paid for, understanding that there is now a situation of internal inequity. However, there are places where you pay and places where you don't pay, and you can also think about whether you should pay for the one you use; also understanding that there is external inequity because out-of-country drivers pay in their respective countries, but not here and we do pay there. With all this in mind, it would now be up to the carriers, especially the self-employed, who are already quite threatened with diesel oil, with the cost increases for the new SMI and with the increase in contributions. In any case, unless this resulted in a simultaneous reduction in the State's General Budgets, it would simply be a covert rise in taxes with which, of course, we would not agree. We don't agree to suffocating with more taxes. In any case, you have assured us that this will be discussed in a subcommittee and that this refers only to the reversed motorways, and we will accept it. On the other hand, he said that if we combine it differently, one or the other is obtained. If one and three are combined, it might be thought that it is a question of providing the Government with more tools to avoid situations such as last year's, the collapse of AP-6. It is clear that we do not want a collapse like the AP-6 with hundreds of people stuck in the snow or previous collapses during other administrations. We do not want citizens, after paying frivolities like radials, to be stuck on other highways. On the other hand, we do not forget that, although the Government blamed the concessionaire entirely, the responsibility was shared, and this resulted from a protocol of action in the face of the snows that, by the way, the Government hastened to conceal. This is not only about making legal changes, but also about improving the coordination of different administrations. The low penalty could be due not only to the legislation, but also to the fact that the leaflets were poorly drafted and let us not rule out this possibility. In any case, it seems good to have these tools to prevent collapses. We will postpone the doubts, we understand the need for Seittsa to take charge of the charge on the radials and we trust the words that you issue today, but, yes, we will ask for it to be treated as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs Valido Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have said this many times in the Committee on Development and we are going to make it clear here now: the route of our roads responds more to the interests of the big builders and to electoral interests than to a planned network focused on mobility. As a result, the current road map in Spain is a radial drawing and, therefore, we need to rethink the high-capacity roads, i.e. motorways and motorways. We must change the paradigm and, to do so, we must put the needs of the social majority, cohesion and territorial vertebration ahead of the interests of the major consultants. We have to acknowledge that we have received this royal decree-law with interest and will vote in favour of it because we believe it strengthens the State in the management of roads, toughens the sanctions for breach of security to private concessionaires, expedites the actions of security works and allows the diversion of traffic when road safety so requires. On the latter point, the decree also provides for the ability to divert heavy traffic from national roads to motorways on environmental or safety grounds. In this context, it should be noted that it is possible by agreement between the administrations to agree on the contribution of each administration concerned in the bonuses of tolls on vehicles. In addition, this decree incorporates a claim that allows the territories with motorways to work to provide a solution to the problems of congestion and sinisterity of their national roads by means of the bonus. It is not the best of alternatives, but it is an effective tool in which we have been working through our spokesperson - as in the AP-7, in Tarragona - so that the neighbors affected for years by the tolls when they go to work, study or health centers stop suffering a comparative aggravation, they are free of charge their use and they are improved safety on their roads. With regard to sanctions for concessionaries of toll freeways, it is social justice to harden them. No one understands that companies that earn millions by managing the state's strategic infrastructure go out of their way when they cause chaos for abandonment, as experienced last January with the snowfalls of the AP-6, also putting at risk people who went inside 3,000 vehicles and paying sanctions of 1200 euros for non-conservation and 15 000 euros for negligence. [[applause]] Finally, I would like to refer to the point in the decree that expands Seittsa's legal capacity. We share the desire to strengthen the State infrastructure company. In this sense, what allows the decree is to have a state tool like Seittsa, with full capacity to manage, from the public, the high capacity roads in our country and to enable them for the management of the tolls - while this model questioned continues in force - of those highways that have been reversed to the State after the bankruptcy and rescue of the private concessionaires; rescue that has cost the State 1800 million euros, which means an increase of 11 points of deficit, so the vultures and enemies of the public continue to ask up to 45 billion euros. We cannot allow such a thing to continue to happen. On the other hand, most motorways are already amortized and people who are forced to travel by private vehicle by necessity cannot be penalized compared to other fast roads in the country. The future of the fast lanes in Spain is one of the debates of this legislature and from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, we will contribute to this happening rigorously and thinking about the model of infrastructures for the next decades disembarking patterns of the past. Our country has to stop dreaming about asphalt to plan mobility wisely. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u48	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u49	Thank you, President. Today I rise to this proud, happy and happy rostrum because we can say that the socialist government is going to be the first Spanish government in history to liberalize a toll freeway once the concession is completed. On 1 December, the citizens of Burgos will be able to circulate free of charge through the AP-1, and we believe that it is of justice. In addition, regardless of what the People's Party says here today, what this party had prepared for citizens is that they continue to pay for using AP-1 on 1 December this year. I repeat, whatever they say, they were prepared for those citizens to continue paying for using that toll freeway. We in the Socialist Party have one thing very clearly. We want citizens to be the same, we want citizens to feel the same; so, as long as the Socialist Party governs, we will seek that the grievances that exist today because the governments of the People's Party decide to charge some citizens for circulation and others not, be eliminated. For that reason, what we have said for the AP-1 serves for the AP-7 and serves for the AP-4, and the doubts put by the People's Party are interested doubts, they are unquestionably consistent that they show that they want to hide what they really wanted to do. Why is this decree important? This decree, which may go unnoticed, is much more important than we believe, because we think that the concessionaires of the toll freeways, who are managing freeways that are of the State, when they fail, have to pay a reasonable amount. Last year we saw how thousands of drivers got caught many hours by the snow in the AP-6. Do you know what fine the People's Party put on them? A fine of 1200 euros. They deserve to mismanage a toll freeway if they will have to pay only 1200 euros. That's what the People's Party did. And what are we going to do? To raise that penalty to something that does not justify them being trapped by thousands of drivers for mismanagement, and on that path goes this decree. However, this decree seeks many other things; it seeks to eliminate something that the People's Party wanted to do and that is a shame. In this country one of the biggest shames we have experienced in recent years has been the rescue of broken toll roads. They were planned by the People's Party, developed by the People's Party and rescued by the People's Party, and what did they want to do? They wanted all citizens to pay that ransom and give it back to the dealers, to the private companies, so that they could take the benefit. That is what the People's Party wanted to do, and we, with this decree, ensure that they cannot do so. [[Mr Campos Arteseros: All right!-Applause]] It is a shame for this country what the People's Party had thought, a real shame. What we are also going to do with this decree, and it is perfectly justified, is to give citizens more security. We want trucks to be able to be forced, and we want to do so with the maximum legal guarantees, so that certain high-capacity roads are used by trucks and many of the accidents that have occurred are eliminated. Many people have died in this country, first, because the PP did not act quickly to divert those trucks and, second, because it did not give legal guarantees, and that is something we cannot afford. As you see, in this decree it is very complicated to justify a vote against, but surely today we will see parties here that justify it or even vote against it. And why? What hides behind a vote against a decree these characteristics? What they want to do is that the broken highways that we all pay again turn them over to the dealers to take the benefits and this is, as I said before, a real shame. Behind a vote against what is hidden is to give the benefit of the ransoms to private companies; but not only that; what you want to do, if you vote against this decree, is that a dealer when you fail to pay 1200 euros or a laughable amount. That is what justifies a vote against. That is why you will be able to tell us what milongas you want, you will be able to tell us that this decree you want to do is to charge on roads where it is currently circulating for free, and we say that no, that is not true, that that is what the People's Party wanted to do and that you wanted to do without any debate. What the People's Party wanted to do was for the people who have been paying for driving over toll freeways to continue to do so after the concession is over. Stop counting milongas, stop deceiving the citizens, stop saying what we, being in the government and seeing what they were doing when they ran this country, know that is not true. Very soon, as I said, the PSOE will be very proud of the management that this government has done and that all citizens can feel little by little the same. We cannot again allow ourselves in this country to see how there are citizens who have a feeling of aggravation because a People's Party Government decided that they, for some reason, because they were in a particular territory, had to pay for travelling on high-capacity routes. Why? Because the People's Party decided that some citizens were first and others second? The PSOE will end that, and if we ever have to change, we will all do it together, we will do it with a debate, we will do it by telling the face what we think, we will do it with data, and without trying to deceive the citizens. I'm done. Any vote against this decree, however justified, has only one reason: to think of private companies above citizens. That will be the way of the People's Party, and the way of the Socialist Party will be to think of the citizens above anything else. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u50	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister. They serve my first words to express my condolences for the worker who was between Silla and Almusafes, in Valencia, working on the AVE line and who died yesterday, unfortunately, in maintenance and fumigation tasks. I am sure that I do it on behalf of all the groups, as we also did in the case of the person who died last Tuesday in Barcelona nearby. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, I would like to express my condolences that it is again, as you have repeatedly said, deeply indecorable for the Socialist Party today to attribute victims of traffic accidents to any party; it is indecorous. Therefore, I want to give you just two nuances: first, if this month is freed from toll the highway between Burgos and Álava is because there has been a government in Spain that decided not to extend any concessions. [[Applauds]] For forty years there have been extensions of concessions by all the Governments of Spain. Here's some of Felipe Gonzalez's stage. [[Show a document]] By the way, I did not know that there were so many ministers, but all - Sáenz de Cosculluela, Borrell on several occasions or Magdalena Álvarez - the governments of Spain for forty years have extended motorway concessions, except one: the government of Spain of Mariano Rajoy that in seven years did not extend any. [[Applauds]] He announced it already in 2012, dona Ana Pastor, and fulfilled it Don Iñigo de la Serna. This month will be free of tolls the highway between Burgos and Vitoria because that bidding process that had to have started two years ago did not begin. Second, it's a joke. I would practically subscribe to the literality of Mr Ábalos' words, practically the whole, but it has nothing to do with what you are going to vote for here. What is going to be voted on here is to open the door to power, with a Council of Ministers agreement, to collect tolls at all, at radials and at all motorways. I'll read it to you. It is the Official Gazette of the State and, by the way, I have nothing against the royal decrees. This is number 18 and a few moments ago my partner Don Carlos brilliantly spoke of the 17th. When those who abjured the royal decrees arrived, on June 1, there were 3 and the royal decree number 4 was to occupy Spanish Television. Let's go for number 18 and I'm not worried that in these five months they've approved 15 compared to the three of Rajoy's government until June. It is the only thing in which the Socialist Party wins the People's Party, in ruling under a coup d'état. [[Applauds]] I'm more concerned that they've announced they're going to continue like this. This has an aggravating effect and is that this Government of Spain is the government with the lowest democratic legitimacy of the forty years of Spanish democratic history, and goes for number 15. This text, which is what you are going to approve, literally says: The road law is being reformed - by the way, it is not the road law that you want to reform - to give legal rank to the collection of tolls from public society by assuming the exploitation of certain toll highways that have reversed - the radials - and that will reverse - the five toll highways, the five toll highways, that have been tolling for forty years. And for that you change the law saying that the perception of the new tolls is protected. What you are doing with a decision of the Council of Ministers is that the neighbors who have been in Burgos and Álava for forty years continue to pay, but next year also in Alicante, Valencia, Castellón, Tarragona, Seville, Cadiz, the province of Teófila, and also in successive years in Zaragoza, Barcelona, Lleida and Girona; they all know that with this law amendment you will be able to charge them. What is the credit I give to the words of the Minister and the Government of Spain? What is the credit I give to words that state just the opposite of what you are going to ratify in the Official State Gazette? [[Showing a copy]] The credit I give to the Government of Spain is the same as that given today by the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD: none, zero. [[Applauds]] I thank the Minister for the gesture he has made with my territory, with the Valencian Community, in stating that with an inherited PP budget he will actually extend the bonuses - which we welcome are already being applied for reasons of accidents - to the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, with which he had been negotiated by a Government of the People's Party. But of course, they apply a discriminatory measure, and it is the first time in the history of Spain that the bonuses with exclusive money of the Ministry of Development end in a provincial limit; it is the first time, it was approved at the Council of Ministers on September 1, and the spokesman minister said: In the coming days we will extend the bonuses to Valencian Community and Murcia. Since 1 September the days have become weeks, weeks in months and 16 million of the People's Party's budget against which they voted and which enables them to do so remain unexecuted. I welcome the gesture, but I urge you to keep your own word. We will vote no, Minister, and we will be left alone in this refusal, basically for those two reasons. First of all, because the credit of a few words that state just the opposite is none. And secondly, because we are against this war against the private vehicle, this authentic vehicleophobia that has been imposed by the Government of Spain, that is probably the only statement that they will fulfill in this legislature, that of Minister Ribera, when he said: The diesel has the days counted. That was a condemnation of the sector, and is that Spain has one of the world's leading diesel vehicle manufacturers. Declaring war on the private car is like declaring war on tourism, and we are against it. We are in favour - I conclude, Madam President - of less contamination. That's why Rajoy's plans allowed 1,200 000 cars voluntarily released. They do not pollute the cars of the factories that are closing with temporary stops either in Valencia, Barcelona, or Madrid, Álava or Vigo; they do not pollute those cars; they pollute those who are twenty years old; and the gentleman who has a twenty-year-old car does not do so because he wants to. Therefore, instead of imposing 670 million euros of annual payment for gas oil ascent, instead of closing the cities to those who have the van, the truck, the car of the runner, etc., instead, do it voluntarily, as we did in the People's Party stage, when 1,200 000 cars were voluntarily withdrawn with an aid of 1500 euros, the PIVE Plan. We are against that vehicleophobia and we are in favour of the Spanish being the same. Moreover, after that 40-year amortization of highway it is fair for them to stop paying, in the same way that they arrive late and it is fair for them to pay for the nine unamortized toll highways. We left you the papers made and, if you had bid, I would not have counted you as a deficit this year and therefore you would not make this modification of credits, this legal modification, which from tomorrow allows you to charge on any motorway in Spain amortized even after forty years of payment that you decide. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u53	We turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the point concerning the opinion of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on imprudence in the driving of motor vehicles or mopeds and sanctioning the abandonment of the place of the accident. In order to defend the amendments made to this initiative, Mrs Rivera Andrés, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u54	Thank you, Madam President. [[The Lord]] Today I am going to do here, in the rostrum of Congress, something I thought I would never be able to do, and it is to come without papers, without scripts, because the amendment of the Penal Code that we are going to discuss here in Congress goes much further, because this law goes on people. The 'For a Fair Law' campaign started by Anna González and, therefore, this law goes, of course, by Anna González and goes from Oscar, her husband, who died five years ago, hit by a driver who ran away, leaving him abandoned in a ditch. It's Anna's and Paula's, who died when she was only fifteen years old when she was run over by a vehicle whose driver was positive for drugs. It goes from Ivan, who died also at age fifteen, hit also by a driver who gave positive in drugs. And, of course, he also goes from Andrés Contreras, whom he wanted to thank for being in the gallery with us today, because he was a victim in that Oliva traffic accident a year ago in which three cyclists died, including his father, and three others were seriously injured, being one of them. So, thank you, Andres, really, for joining us here today. [[Applauds]] The amendment of this law is made by individuals, by the cyclists who have joined this cause. Several of its representatives are also with us today, such as Alfonso Treviño or José Luis de Santos. Thank you for joining us, too. And it goes with people who have wanted to fight for this, like Anna González's lawyer, who has never given up on the effort, or Francisco Parrés. It also goes from the professional cyclists, who have been there all the time accompanying: Miguel Ángel Perdiguero, Roberto Alcaide and also who has been the soul of this reform, always supporting and from the media, Perico Delgado. Danger, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] And this is also from journalists, who have also helped this reform to move forward. I wanted to thank Manuel Vilaseró; Eva and Ana, from Europa Press; Paula, from ABC, who was very concerned about this; and Nacho Labarga, from Marca, with whom I spoke recently. I also wanted to thank many others who I do not know personally but who have spread through the waves the problem of the insecurity of cyclists on the roads, such as Juanma Castaño or Monica Marchante. We've all done a team job, a team that wins today. They win, of course, the victims, but we also win everyone, because let's not forget that absolutely we can all be victims of a traffic accident. What do we get? Well, a lot of things. We finally win, after what happened with the Catalan Law of 2015, that the victims will again be protected by the Penal Code. Right now, 90% of the victims are left out, but when this reform is passed in Congress and subsequently published in the BOE, victims of traffic accidents will again be protected by the Criminal Code, and that is very important. We also send a very powerful social message, which society will understand very well, and is that whoever abandons a victim, who escapes, pays it. We have managed to introduce the crime of abandoning the victims at the scene of the accident. This is a social message, because whoever leaves can end up in jail. We have also managed to convey an important message, and it is that drugs and alcohol are finally off our roads. But we've done it partially. We have achieved something very important and it is that the recklessness of alcohol and drugs are regarded as serious recklessness. But it is not enough, and from here I would also like to thank Javier Sánchez, who is with us today, who launched a campaign at change.org yesterday, precisely to ask this, to ask for something very important that we have not achieved in this law, and to ask for it with the amendment that we tabled today from Citizens in this House and I invite the rest of the parties to join. I invite the rest of the parties that have supported me and endured tremendously, as well as the rest of the spokesmen to whom I also thank your patience during this speech, to add, not to stand in half. Look, right now, if there's only one deceased, the penalties don't increase when there's alcohol and drugs at stake. I think it is very important that we give a message to society that alcohol and drugs, there is one dead or more, is the reason to increase penalties. Honestly, I want to ask you, how much is a life worth? Can the pain be weighed? I don't think so. I wanted to thank Javier for that launch, too, and since I brought his cell phone, I want to tell you how we're doing right now. Right now we have 301,257 signatures asking for this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the Socialist Party government, 301,257 people are calling for this change to be made, for the penalties to be increased in the case of alcohol and drugs. This amendment is alive, we can still rescue it; we can still make a law really fair. In the time I have left of exposure, I want to tell you to recapacitate; to recapacitate because we can make a good law; it's already good, but it can be better. I would particularly like to refer to the People's Party and the Socialist Party; we are in time to do so and we are in time to do so today. This exhibition for a fair law I want to dedicate to Anna González, who could not come here today, because Oscar is not going to come back, and she knows it, but perhaps with this law what he does return is peace to Anna's life because he knows that, with her, he will help many victims of traffic accidents. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs Rivera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u56	Good morning to all of you and to all of you. I want to send a greeting to all those who accompany us today in the rostrum; it has been a pleasure during this long year to work with you, to receive your advice and to have constructive discussions. Frankly, with my heart, I send you a strong greeting. As you know, the amendment of this law came out in response to a demand existing in our society, mainly around two issues. The first is an insufficient maximum penalty for recklessness, when it causes multiple results of injury or death. And, second, the dissatisfaction with the criminal reform of the People's Party, which left in 2015 in a situation of notorious defencelessness to the victims against the insurance companies. Our group is not at all satisfied with the situation of the victims. Our group demands that responsibility of all drivers in their movement through our State. Our group is frankly concerned about the situation, and during the long legislative process it has tried to provide more adequate, rational and civic responses to this situation. As we have argued from the outset, the road to traffic safety and disaster reduction must be approached from an integral perspective, which goes through road education, which goes through public awareness, which goes through determined action in infrastructure, the location of those black spots of accident and the urgent and serious action to remove those black spots from our roads; and, of course, compliance with the relevant traffic measures and legal reforms. However, the opinion, the report we are debating today, has preferred to respond to punitive populism and protection measures, to the maintenance of the privileges of insurance companies. We used to listen from this very rostrum to someone who has spoken of tax populism; for they have fallen into the same mistake of populism, in this case, punitive. What cannot be done is to always seek in the Penal Code the solution to these dramas, to these situations, not only because it is contrary to the political-criminal rationality, not only because it is contrary to the principle of minimum intervention of criminal law, not only because it is believed that it is not an effective strategy to control crime and reduce the incidence of crimes, not only because it is contrary to the common sense and to the reality that Spain lives - let us remember that it is the country that has fewer crimes than the European average, but many more imprisoned people than the European average -; not only because of that, but simply because this reform of the Criminal Code will not prevent more deaths. In addition, technically this reform is absolutely deficient, as so many participants in this Commission have said, as Professor Javier Álvarez has said, as the prosecutor of Sala de Seguridad Vial, Mr Bartolomé Vargas, has said. This reform, which we are debating and voting on today, establishes presumptions of serious imprudence that are contrary to the presumption of innocence, establishes an ambiguity of criteria so that the penalties can rise to one or two degrees, which will create enormous insecurity; in addition, fifty years after its repeal, the very old crime of escape resurrects. Ladies and gentlemen, the penalty will not give real satisfaction to the thousands and thousands of victims of mild and less serious recklessness, because what they really deserve is a decent compensation for the damage they have suffered. The reform will not reverse the reform of the Catalan minister of the year 2015 that caused the decriminalization of the slight imprudence, it has engaged the victims to a civil process in which they were and will continue to find themselves in conditions of absolute inferiority regarding the insurance companies, those that year after year continue to increase their profits - 13% in 2017 - and those that, moreover, this last week - right, comrades of the presentation? - have been calling us insistently. This will not remedy the feeling of impunity suffered by citizens when they do not feel sufficiently cared for in the courts and will continue to be double-handed losers: they will find themselves faced with a penal system that too often none of them, which too often lacks technical means, procedural means to respond, the right answer to compensate for the damage suffered. Our proposal, in the face of this punitive exacerbation, was a reform to prevent this double victimization: to recover the principle of equal arms of the victim against the insurer that was broken in 2015, to end the privileges of the insurers and to ensure that that waiting time, those delays caused by the default of the insurers at the time of payment of the compensations, runs against the insurers and not to the detriment of the victim, establishing a moratorium interest that simply does not obtain the profit of anyone, but stimulates those insurers to comply with their obligations. Along with this, we proposed a number of legal guarantees that would assist and prosecute the victim and his family members to avoid the judicial crossroads and the difficulty of obtaining adequate judicial protection, in contrast, against those insurers who were reluctant to comply with their obligations. But I must admit - and we will see this - that our group has remained practically alone. The right, the old right, the new right, the nationalist right here, the nationalist right there, did not even want to hear about these reforms of the Insurance Act, the Baremo Act, the Civil Prosecution Act; they did not even want to talk and it did not help at all the rancid attitude of the Socialist Party. Therefore, we are faced with a presentation that also makes deaf ears explore other types of responses than punitive ones and, of course, does not even deal with restorative justice, one that, without replacing punitive justice, is moving towards a more humanizing justice that incorporates dialogue into the functioning of the penal system and that is aimed at tempering the violent consequences of the crime on the victim and also those inflicted by the institutional intervention of an excessively punitive right on the offender. As far as this is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this is a missed opportunity. Today they win the insurance companies, today they lose their citizenship. But our group is not going to lower its arms, our group will continue to promote the reforms it considers fair, which we have presented and discussed in the paper, we will continue to defend these measures in defense of justice, in defense of dialogue, of social justice, and at the expense of the privileged, although all this continues to create discomfort, resistance and fears for some. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Moya. Mr Alli Martínez, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u58	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, first of all of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I now put to the table that the Navarro People's Union will logically vote in favour of the opinion of this agreement, which comes from the presentation by the Committee on Justice. I want to thank in this somewhat histrionic legislature, more seeing what happened yesterday in this House, that we have reached agreements between different forces. This is a drama that happens daily on our roads. It is not a matter, Mr US spokesman We can, of the left or right, it is a matter in which as political leaders, as political representatives, we should advance the power of transformation that we politicians have and lead that to solve the problems, as is the case with the amendment of the organic law that is the Penal Code. But sadly, once again, civil society has brought us forward, and politicians are going to rebuff, never better said, the issue on which we are at the moment. That is why I would like to thank the State Association of Traffic Accident Victims, the Royal Spanish Cycling Federation, the Triathlon Federation and - of course - the Association of Professional Cyclists, who are present here, and, as the spokesman of the Citizen Group has already done, especially a great fighter, who is Anna González, with that platform and that struggle that has led for a fair law as a victim for the death of her husband Oscar by a truck driver with a blue truck that followed his life. For her and for all the victims, for the future victims that we can avoid with this amendment of the Penal Code, Union of the Navarro People will vote in favour, and - of course, too - because we want to clarify the serious imprudence, which rises one or two degrees when there are several affected and, of course, to criminalize the abandonment of the place by the causer. Therefore, as a lesson in the dignity of those people who are up there, here we should vote in favour of this opinion which comes from the Committee on Justice. The Navarro People's Union will, of course, vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, there is an increase in accident damage in traffic accidents, so it is clear that action is needed. We announced in the consideration of the proposed law on his day that there were three objectives to be pursued. It seemed to us right to increase criminal charges to those who cause accidents due to excessive speed under the influence of alcohol or drugs in driving. Another objective we set ourselves was to include as a new offence the abandonment of the accident site. This involves punishment for those drivers who flee after having caused an accident. In this way, it is intended to punish the intrinsic evil in the abandonment of those who know that they leave behind someone who may be injured or deceased. Today, if you left behind a person who had died, as was not considered an omission from the duty of relief, that person was left unpunished. Finally, the third objective concerned minor injuries. This reform today will allow for the re-condemnation by criminal means of accidents causing minor injuries in the type of less serious recklessness. This makes it possible to re-prosecute their causants by criminal means. As has been said in this rostrum, this type of accident accounts for almost 90% of accidents involving mostly cyclists and pedestrians. It is now possible for victims to claim damages in criminal proceedings again, without having to bear the costs of a judicial review; of course, this was detrimental to the victims' ability to defend themselves. It is true that the amendments to the Criminal Code cannot be left to the victims and it is also true that the Criminal Code has to be the last ratio. But it is also the case that the increase in traffic accidents and the feeling of impunity in the face of extremely painful cases make it necessary for us to modify the criminal charges for such conduct and to provide assistance to the victims and families of persons affected by traffic accidents. Surely it is a reform that is not perfect or that can have some kind of technical deficiency. Let us hope, in any case, that the passage of time in its application will help to raise awareness that distractions are paid dearly, that they cannot be driven under the effect of alcohol and drugs; let us hope that if these objectives are met technical deficiencies can be solved, either by doctrine or perhaps again by this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u62	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. The plenary of this House is brought to the opinion of the Committee on Justice on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995, the Criminal Code, on imprudent driving of motor vehicles or mopeds and on the sanctioning of abandonment of the place of accident, with a text which has received very majority support and whose main amendments aim to aim at what is to be considered serious or less serious imprudence causing the death or injury of another. Thus, with regard to less serious imprudence, a current indefinition is supplemented by the inclusion that it will be that which is not classified as serious, provided that the causing event is the result of a serious violation of the rules of traffic, motor vehicle traffic and road safety. In terms of severity, the driving of vehicles under the influence of toxic drugs, narcotics, psychotropic substances or alcoholic beverages, or excessive speed, is considered of this nature. On the other hand, this objective of serious imprudence will serve to ensure greater punishment as a result of reckless conduct, which may even entail a higher penalty in one or two degrees when serious deaths or injuries have occurred. This reform also addresses those who are not deprived of their care in criminal protection and those who are injured by those who behave less recklessly with the injuries referred to in article 147.1 of the Criminal Code. That is, those who require for their healing, in addition to the first optional assistance, some medical or surgical treatment, excluding the simple monitoring or optional requirement of the course of the injury. [[The lady]] Finally, this reform faces a significant social demand in the face of the increase in accidents involving pedestrians and cyclists resulting in death or injury and in which their cause, following reckless conduct, leaves the place of the accident. With this autonomous criminal type, it is intended to penalize the lack of solidarity with the victims and avoid the competition between this new criminal type and the omission of the duty of relief of article 195.3 of the same Penal Code. That is when the requirements laid down in this directive are met, which are the manifest and grave danger to the victims. As can be seen, this is a reform that seeks to respond to what the affected groups, especially cyclists and pedestrians, demand from us and, in particular, those weaker than those who sometimes travel on the road. However, we cannot forget that not only with punitive measures must we face the sinister nature of traffic, but we should be accompanied by preventive measures in the field of road safety, that is, educational, training and technological measures, as in the rest of the countries in our environment. We therefore hope that this reform will contribute to the purpose we proposed a year ago, which is why we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u64	Bon dia, MPs and MPs. We are faced with a bill that has been worked very quickly when the issue is particularly important, especially because of the social scope it entails. This bill has been dealt with with with little technical and legal rigour, and it is very likely that the Constitutional Court will declare any of the reforms introduced unconstitutional. Victims do not deserve it, they deserve legal certainty, as well as road safety. Our group has always been against reforming the Criminal Code to solve social problems because it breaks with the basic spirit and principles of criminal law, criminal law as the last ratio, that is, the principle of minimum intervention of criminal law, which has a double meaning, on the one hand, implies that criminal sanctions must be limited to the circle of the indispensable, for the benefit of other sanctions or even the tolerance of the lighter illicits and, on the other hand, implies that it must be used only when there is no other remedy, that is, after the failure of any other form of protection. The minimum intervention in criminal law is due to the legislator's conviction that the penalty is an irreversible evil and an imperfect solution. In the present case, we did have other protective measures introduced by the Parliamentary Group of Podemos with the reform of the Insurance Contract Act, which sought to protect the insured person and the victims more effectively so that they would have greater compensation and compensation for the damage caused. We fully share the need to legislate with the aim of ending impunity when a driver involved in a traffic accident leaves the scene, whether the victim has suffered injuries or has died. However, as my predecessor in office has already pointed out, the Councillor of Justicia of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, Ester Capella, Esquerra Republicana will not miss the opportunity to make a criticism of this way of lawmaking, not because it is a proposal for a law, but because we have thirty amendments to the Penal Code of 1995 and, with the social demand already claimed by this proposal for a law, it could have been acted on much earlier. We will vote in favour, even though we are against using the Penal Code to solve the problems of society, but, out of responsibility and solidarity with the victims of motor vehicle accidents and with the cyclists who play their lives every day when they go on the road, we will vote in favour. But this reform does not end here, our group will present amendments in the Senate procedure because we understand that we are facing a reform in which society has made a great effort and sacrifice and, therefore, it is co-responsibility that insurance companies also put on their part. This reform is therefore lacking, such as the reform of the Insurance Contract Act, the Barre Act, the Civil Prosecution Act. There are more measures that can be more useful than reforming the Criminal Code, more training, more investment in road safety, more awareness-raising, more infrastructure. Our will is to continue working so that cyclists and cyclists can continue to enjoy this sport and hobby with complete freedom and security. We do not want any more victims, and we do want the incivics to assume their responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u65	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Bellido Acevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum to express the Socialist Group's vote in favour of this reform of the Criminal Code, which has meant a great deal of agreement, the result of a great consensus among the groups. If you had no experience at all, you would be surprised if we went up to the rostrum and what was practically a unanimous agreement until yesterday in the Commission, today we will establish or underline the differences. I'm going to try to emphasize what unites us, because I think it's been a lot. The background to this bill is the campaign that Anna González started years ago for a fair law after her husband's terrible loss while practicing cycling, which was run over by a truck driver who did not stop at him. But it is not an unusual case, there are many terrible cases reported by associations of victims, by relatives, absolutely tearing: pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists who have not been cared for by those who have caused the disaster and left them abandoned. Abandoning the victim in Spain, in some cases that did not cover the omission of the duty of relief, might not be punished. This is the case, and the victim groups have been asking us to reform it for years, as well as the cyclist groups. A moment ago I remembered Pedro Delgado, who had been asking for this issue to be reformed for years. Therefore, that was one of the problems that we had to face and the other was to try to repeal, reverse the most harmful effects of the 2015 reform of the Penal Code that the People's Party made with its absolute majority, that by decriminalizing the faults had left many crimes of injury many reckless decriminalized, having to go victims to civil jurisdiction. We may not be given protection to the victims with this reform. I would say that there is no better protection than bringing them back to criminal jurisdiction with all the guarantees. We have faced a presentation with the aim of assessing the raising of some penalties for the most serious cases, to identify, in some way, the less serious recklessness that since its incorporation into the Criminal Code in 2015 had been used little, and also to establish this new crime, the autonomous crime of abandoning the place of the accident. The spokesman for Podemos also said that this does not save lives, that this will not reduce the casualties. I believe that if the driver knows that he has a greater sanction by giving himself to the escape and abandoning the victims that by attending to him at the accident site and calling for emergencies, it is possible that lives are saved and that is why it is important that we approve today. I would like to thank all the speakers for their very enriching contributions, and also all the political groups, the rapporteurs from the People's Party, Podemos, Citizens and all the groups for their contributions. I think we've been a lot closer than we might be demonstrating today. With this reform and other actions that the government is doing, we will achieve more security on the roads, better coexistence among users and more respect for those who are most vulnerable: pedestrians and cyclists. It is true that some reform will be pending. For example, in the work in the Commission we have been very close to some proposals from the Podemos Group, we have come to deal with them, but also out of respect for the groups of victims who have asked us to be able to evaluate these issues in the Bareme Act, in the Follow-up Committee to the Bareme Act, we have preferred to abstain from giving them the role of the collectives. I would also like to thank the contribution of the Government, that of the Minister of Justice, that of the Secretary of State for Sport, that of the Director General of Traffic and especially that of the President of the Government, who has been involved from the beginning in trying to achieve maximum protection for the victims, and that has also helped to develop the position of the Socialist Group. I would especially like to thank Anna for her courage, her impulse and, above all, her generosity in this time and also to thank Alfonso Treviño, who has made very interesting contributions, to Francisco Parres, who is here today, to the associations of cyclists, to the groups of victims who, as Pere Navarro says, is the differential and positive fact that Spain has to prevent and work for social awareness that they do not have elsewhere in Europe, Stop Accidents, DIA, Aesleme. I would also particularly like to thank my colleague Pedro Muñoz, who not only accompanied me, but in some cases also guided this reform process. I honestly believe that with this reform, which we are going to adopt by a large majority, we honour the victims and work to improve road safety. It is true that no one is going to return the lives of their loved ones to their families, but I am also convinced that they want no one else to go through their suffering, which is not only losing a family member, but also the feeling of frustration that shows the impunity they have suffered in some cases. That is why I think, as Anna González says, we have achieved a fair law that goes with people and that is why we have to be proud. These days there have been unfortunate events in the House of Representatives, in Congress, which at all costs represent the good work of many Members who work every day to dignify their work of representing citizens. This work in the Commission during these months, during this year and peak, shows that we can understand each other and I would like to underline today the unity so that no one goes with a bad taste of mouth because I believe that we have all managed to improve road safety in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u67	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gamazo Micó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u68	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 27 June last year right here from this rostrum encouraged us to pedal together to improve the protection of the most vulnerable users of the road network and to support the proposal for the reform of the Criminal Code that the People's Parliamentary Group had registered and presented together with representatives of cyclists. Today, with the adoption of this opinion, in a long, very long process, which in the eyes of many has seemed eternal, we continue to pedal, putting at the forefront the responsibility of curbing road accidents, a social scourge that we face from different fields: education, prevention and punishment. The Members of the People's Party, who are aware of this social scourge, wanted to respond from the point of view of criminal protection by promoting this proposal for a law that could have been presented by any parliamentary group, so much so that they have criticized it, but this group, the People's Group, presented it. It is a reform that is the result of the attentive listening to the demands of the victims' associations that accompany us today, of the cyclists' collectives and of the tearing testimony of Anna González and of so many other relatives of victims with whom we have met. We will never tire of thanking and recognizing Anna and all the people who have fought for a fairer law her impulse and her strength to avoid that in the future no family has to go through the calvary that they have gone through. [[Applauds]] It is a prudent and moderate reform that counted on the firm commitment of the Ministers of Justice, Rafael Catalá, and the Interior, Juan Ignacio Zoido, at that time, to whom we thank for his predisposition and involvement in the drive of this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the presentation, from my group we have been open to dialogue with the rest of the groups and have technically improved the initial proposal by reaching a more balanced, more proportionate and consensual text after listening to the speakers, to whom we also thank all their contributions, because today is a day of thanks. I would also like to highlight the willingness and constructive attitude of the Members of those parliamentary groups who, without wanting to play a leading role or to give a boost to the presentation, have improved and supplemented the text with their work. Thanks to them too. They will allow me in this section to emphasize the work carried out passionately and intensely by my colleagues and members of my group in this initiative; thank you sincerely to Silvia Valmaña, thanks to Avelino de Barrionuevo and Pablo Matos and also, especially, to my friend and spokesman for Justice, Maria Jesús Moro, thanks for your maximum involvement and for your extraordinary generosity by allowing me also to defend today the position of our group. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the reform proposed by my group sought, firstly, to improve the definition of the concept of recklessness; secondly, to increase the punishment of such conduct and, thirdly, to introduce the offence of abandoning the place of accident. So far in the legislative area, we have managed to maintain that objective that we have set and are satisfied with, and that has not been easy. And it has not been easy because with regard to the crime of escape, it has always been the People's Group that has defended it vigorously because we believed that abandoning a person after an accident and escaping was a despicable act and should therefore be worthy of a criminal charge and not a mere administrative one, as some argued, because it was about better protecting life, dignity and primary legal assets. The flight in a road accident is an intolerable event, in which the dignity of the victims and their families is disregarded and which shows a lack of solidarity. Those who have not yet found the protected legal good should show it to them. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the amendments which are still alive, we should like to point out that on Tuesday, in the Committee on Justice, we were puzzled by the vagaries of certain groups and by the intervention of some Members - particularly those of the People's Party - we were puzzled; I must admit that today it has increased because it continues along the same lines, I am puzzled by the falsehoods which have been poured out and by which today it has been poured out because, Mrs Citizens' Party, your group has never tabled any amendment concerning the inclusion of the injuries in Article 147.1, or the less serious imprudence of Article 152.2, or the increase in penalties in the case of a single person who died as a result of driving under the circumstances of 379. Reconsider your amendments, 10 and 11, you will not see that literal tenor because you have never defended it. In addition, in the Commission last Tuesday, a new editorial amendment was tabled incorporating the victim associations' requests and the injuries of 147.1 into that less serious imprudence of 152. It is an identical amendment to which the rapporteurs of my group tabled at the last meeting of the presentation on 30 October and which all the Members of the rest of the groups - also the Members of the People's Party - rejected and did not take into account in favour of another literal tenor. There, at the presentation meeting, unlike in the Commission or here, we have neither stenographers nor cameras, so we can understand those waves of some and some because in working meetings without focus, without cameras and without microphones there is no point in promoting media populism. That is why today we would also like to thank the two parliamentary groups, the Socialists and the Citizens, who rectified in time and accepted the criteria proposed by the rapporteurs of the People's Party, who had previously rejected them. As far as the Podemos amendments are concerned, we sincerely believe, Mr Moya, that, as we have already told you in the Commission, it makes no sense for your amendments to be dealt with here today, in a legislative amendment in the exclusive criminal field. Without assessing the content of these documents, we oppose them; moreover, they know that we must in any case reflect and evaluate them after the Commission's assessment of follow-up to the draft of Law 35/2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I am final. Any one of us, anyone can be the victim, but also the cause, of a road accident. With the public presentation of this initiative, the People's Party launched a route to strengthen criminal protection in road mobility in the face of intolerable acts and behaviour that attack and undermine the lives and integrity of people. Today I ask everyone to continue along this path and to move forward so that no person can feel unprotected by our rule of law, because by supporting this opinion we will achieve a more just law, that goes from people, from pedestrians, like Paula, who died fifteen years after a drunk driver ran over her and ran away, or as Alejandra, whom with seventeen a driver took his life while she walked towards the bus stop, or cyclists like Alejandro, who with thirty-two years on Sunday morning lost his life in Oliva when he crossed a driver, or cyclists like Andrés, his parents and his friends, who lost their lives also in Oliva. [[Excited, paused in his speech.-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. Today we have the opportunity to pass a law that is going to stop road violence, that is what we are trying to do, what the legislator is trying to do to approve this proposal; a law that is going to stop road violence and improve the protection that the Penal Code provides to all those who share the streets and roads of our country, to all: pedestrians, cyclists, drivers, drivers, transporters or passengers, because it is a law of people, of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u69	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u70	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the agenda item on the debate on all legislative initiatives. First, the debate on the proposal for a law regulating external academic practices is a matter for debate. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Alonso Díaz-Guerra.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u71	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to defend the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for a law regulating external university academic practices presented by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America. Why are we presenting this amendment in its entirety? As you are well aware, the People's Group, like most of the groups in this House, does not consider it necessary to bring the regulation of external academic practices to a legal level. But, given the consideration of a demagogic text, which distrusts the work done by universities, companies, students, institutions or trade unions and puts at risk the system of practices, the titling of thousands of young people and the competitiveness of our universities, we in the People's Group consider it a duty to present an alternative. We are presenting an alternative because we are starting from an idea, from a conception radically different from that which emerges from the text which the proposing group brought to this House. You started from a deep mistrust; even more, you started from the disqualification of a system that you dared to consider as widespread fraud. We are concerned about this very negative starting point, so contrary to the system of practices and its protagonists. With your claim of widespread fraud, who are you accusing? To the self-employed and SMEs, who are the most students in internships? What they say is that self-employed people and businesses are committed to violating the rights of university students? With your claim of widespread fraud, who are you accusing? To universities as co-operators necessary for companies to be able to camp freely, or to university professors, who are responsible for the tutoring of university practitioners, or perhaps to the quality departments of universities, who are responsible for ensuring the quality of external practices? With their claim of widespread fraud, do they also accuse public administrations and their officials, who receive thousands of students in practice annually, or third sector institutions: NGOs, foundations, etc.? Unfortunately, their accusations, their disqualifications, are addressed to all, to all who devote their time and effort to sharing knowledge with our students. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you intend to improve a system of practices from distrust, from contempt and disqualification to all those who make up it? Let us be clear, let us not try to confuse public opinion by intoxicating it or by demagogy. Academic practices aim to contribute to the training, to an integral training of students complementing their theoretical and practical learning, in addition to promoting the development of the student's skills, who know the methodology of work, obtain practical experience and promote innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship. It is clear that these are training practices. In no case - I repeat, in no case - are work practices; they are practices to complete the training of our students. And both curricular and extracurricular practices are. It is therefore totally wrong to attempt to set a wage linked to the interprofessional minimum wage for those who are carrying out academic and training practices. This is to ignore the nature of things, create confusion and proceed to destroy the possibility that students can complete their training through the system of external practices. This is why the People's Party's proposal states that students should receive financial aid to cover the costs of carrying out the practices and thus ensure true equality of opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already noted in the discussion a profound discrepancy between the majority of the House in the proposal for a law, an opinion shared with that of the People's Party, which considered - and considers - the text of that proposal to be a despondency, inadequate and counterproductive to its stated purpose. Because the proposed text does not solve any problems, on the contrary, it causes them. Its proposal is born of numerous falsehoods, generating suspicions and instigations about all those involved in external academic practices. It breaks the consensus reached, it does not have the support of the university community. In short, it is a document that arises from his obsession with imbuing everything with his ideological sectarianism. There is no doubt that your proposal is a waste of time. They have not listened to the universities, they have excluded parliamentary groups, they have not dialogued with the entities and they have not even consulted the majority of the students or the directors, who have had to tell them - and I read it in text -: We regret that we have not had the knowledge and experience in this matter that we could have provided the universities. Therefore, we present an alternative, a realistic alternative that combines the desire to combat possible abuses with the confidence in a system that has worked, emphasizing the formative nature of practices as an essential characteristic, including the contributions of universities and ensuring the viability of a good system of university practices. The People's Group's proposal is based on a view which is totally contrary to the proposal put forward by Unite Podemos. We offer you an approach based on reason, on trust, on overcoming. We offer you a proposal that starts with an evaluation of the system and seeks, through knowledge and experience, to perfect the system of external practices. From this commitment of improvement we consider it necessary to enhance and preserve the rights of students, but we must do so together with the universities of which they are part and with the companies, administrations and institutions that collaborate in their formation. We are committed to improving and expanding control and inspection mechanisms to prevent fraud, but never, I repeat, can the solution to abuses ever be to eliminate extracurricular practices. We, unlike you, bet on extracurricular practices, because in addition to completing a magnificent theoretical-practical training it is those that provide greater employability to our young people, but we also have the firm conviction that the duration of curricular practices must be fixed in the curricula. I imagine that the proposing group will have had time to verify the illogical nature of its initial approach. Ladies and gentlemen, listen and trust the universities. In the People's Parliamentary Group we come to build, so we present a text that builds on the consensus reached by the entire university community around Royal Decree 592/2014, and has also been improved with important contributions resulting in a constructive document in the search for the improvement of the system of practices. In the People's Party we believe in the Spanish university, we believe in the teachers and the rest of the staff, in the students, in the collaborating entities, in short, we believe in our university system and the need to work together to strengthen it. For this reason, we propose a text based on respect that generates certainty and recognition, a text that recovers the formative character of university practices, which allows the student to obtain experience by improving their possibilities of employment. We propose to you a text that trusts in the social responsibility of the entities, a text that generates legal certainty, a text committed to equal opportunities. We propose a text that respects the autonomous competence field, that favors the student's employability and that supports university autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose to you the regulation of a law-class text so that in your subsequent normative development we can concretely take into account those aspects that can be adapted to the needs of the Spanish university. We propose a text that values and enhances the exercise in favor of equity carried out by external practices as part of the university system. We propose a document far removed from defamatory proposals that enhance the role as an agent of social and economic development that our university is carrying out. We propose a positive document that does not seek to be guilty of the misadjustments of the system of practices, but rather poses coherent solutions, prevailing the proposals of those involved in the process. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u72	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. On behalf of that group, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u73	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to greet the collectives, unions and institutions that have collaborated in the drafting of this law, which some of them are present here today, such as the Workers' Commissions or the Council of Youth of Spain; thank you for being here today and thank you for the work done. [[Applauds]] As you know - and if not, I would remind you - scholarships in fraud consist of the widespread use by some companies of training practices to replace jobs. Many companies take advantage of the high unemployment, the precariousness of young people and the overqualification of young people to offer all kinds of practices to university students and FPs, but also to young people who have already finished their studies, without any kind of control or quality, replacing in many cases jobs. In total, we talk about more than 150 000 young people affected by this situation each year. A year ago, on November 30, 2017, we approved here the consideration of the law regulating university practices. The Act had three objectives: firstly, to eliminate the fraud of scholarships covering jobs; secondly, to develop a status of the fellow to ensure the training quality of university practices, providing also rights to the student in practice; and thirdly, to encourage the recruitment of young people through employment contracts at the end of the practice. I do not think this is demagogic or sectarianism, but rather it seems to me to be a rule of law, gentlemen of the PP. We thus fulfilled the regulatory expectations of hundreds of thousands of young people in this country and also of universities and student representatives to finally address the regulation of this matter. Students, through the CRUE, and also universities were quick to provide amendments to this bill, once the consideration was approved. We ourselves went to talk to the CRUE to see how we could incorporate its vision into this bill, and we used that work to incorporate our amendments. These entities hoped that the parliamentary groups present in this House would be just as diligent as they were in doing their work. Today, a year later, this law is being debated in its entirety, because it has been blocked by its permanent delay in the process of amendments through these sine die extension periods which have been blocked by Parliament all this time. [[Applauds]] It has cost them a year, but at the end - to be celebrated - they have lifted the blockade and today the People's Party brings us an amendment to the whole law, which seeks to dilute everything we proposed in our proposed law, which is also what the affected people are asking for, represented through trade unions and institutions such as the Youth Council. In this way, they ignore what the people concerned are asking for, what the students are asking for, and what the universities are also asking for, which is, contrary to what you say, a spokesman for the People's Party, to end the legal vacuum that exists with regard to practices. This amendment you are proposing seeks to deregulate and maintain the law of the jungle that currently exists around academic practices. For example, in our law we proposed a limitation on the number of hours of practice so that they could not be extended indefinitely, and you propose to deregulate it so that there is no limit to determining the hours and days a student is performing the practice, so that they can be developing them indefinitely, thus blocking the incorporation of young people into the labour market, that is, the law of the jungle. We also proposed a limitation on the number of students in internships according to the size of the company, in order to avoid that there are companies that feed exclusively on fellows, as is now the case in some cases. You, however, propose a free bar, so that there can be companies that only have fellows when they perform their functions; that is, the law of the jungle. [[applause]] We proposed, through the status of the fellow, measures to strengthen the quality of the practices, such as that companies have to have a tutor exclusively for each student in practices. What do you propose about it? Nothing. That there may be a worker with twenty fellows in charge, so that he cannot fulfill his role of tutoring within the company; that is, the law of the jungle. And do you know why you want the law of the jungle instead of the law, which is what we propose? Because in the jungle the strongest wins, and those who win are their Ibex friends and also companies that do not want to comply with the rights of workers and students. [[Applauds]] Those are the winners, and that's what you're defending here. We also proposed, through the status of the fellow, a minimum remuneration for students in practice, the amount of which we are open to negotiate in the paper, but which ensures that at least the fellow does not incur a cost of performing the practices as is the case today. What do you propose? Nothing; let it be voluntary, let it be charity on the part of companies and so on. At best, what they propose is that universities regulate this, but it is that - as we already told them - universities demand regulation to prevent them from having to compete downwards under the conditions under which they offer the practices. That is to say, you, gentlemen of the PP, refuse to recognize the problem, just as when the former Minister of Employment, Fatima Báñez, called 'external mobility' the young people who expel this country every year and who have to emigrate abroad; just as when one of their friends from the CEOE - specifically the one who is in prison, fortunately - said that the solution to the crisis was to work more and earn less. You, gentlemen of the PP, all you want is for us all to be fellows. They want us all fellows, they want us all outsiders, they want us all precarious. This is their model, which is reflected in labour reform and is reflected in their opposition to the rise of the SMI and that which is reflected in all their labour-related laws. Young people have been the great losers of this crisis. Youth unemployment remains at 33% today, which is twice the overall rate and the highest rate in the European Union after Greece. [[The Lord]] Youth temporaryity remains at 60% and young people have on average five contracts a year, yes, five contracts in the same year; those who work, because there are also - many of them - who work without contract, such as those who are through scholarships in companies or those who are like fake self-employed with delivery or Glovo backpacks, eminently young people who do not compute in these figures of precariousness and temporaryity. In addition, those who do not contribute today or those who chain successive precarious contracts will in the future become part of the poverty stock markets if we do not avoid it, by not generating the necessary rights to receive compensation for layoffs or pensions in the future. This widespread precariousness, which we could call generational precariousness, affects all young people, and the only doubt that may remain on the table is why they are not around Congress every day, as the pensioners have been. Perhaps it is precisely because you do not even have time to come here to protest, because you have to keep turning on the wheel of the precariousness that you have created to get out of this situation, until one day this wheel definitely stops. [[Applauds]] We are here in time to resolve this situation. Returning to the content of the bill, they just said that they met with the universities to reach a consensus. For we have to tell you that we have been meeting with the universities, with the students' representatives for a year now, and also with the Youth Council, with the unions and with the collectives in order to reach a consensus, gentlemen of the People's Party. When you go, we've already gone and we've come back, we've gone and we've come back, because where we've never moved is on the side of youth without a future, of the young people you've denied the future. We are truly concerned about this, not like you, because it is our brothers, our children, our friends who suffer this unjust situation. There is very good news from this debate, and it is that today you are going to stand alone and vote in favour of your amendment as a whole. This is very good news, especially because it will open up the possibility of unlocking the process of this much-needed law and will be able to push an agreement between the rest of the groups to solve this problem urgently. We have to thank you, gentlemen of the People's Party, because your extremism and your clumsiness are going to make it possible for this bill to finally be passed. Finally, we will be able to begin to give back to the most prepared generation in history the future you have denied them. Let us hope that this bill is only the first step to return it to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u74	Thank you very much, Mr González. Mr Alonso Díaz-Guerra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u75	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I thank you for that very conciliatory tone that characterizes you and that you value the great document that we have brought, because you have simply failed to accuse us of Manolete's death. Look, I'm going to make one thing clear to you. You say you have spoken to everyone, but the key question is: Did you really talk to parliamentary groups and the university community before you presented your bill? The answer is known to you and the rest of the House, and it is not. It is true that they may have done so this past year, but they did not agree with anyone to deal jointly with this matter. You have not addressed the groups in this House to present your proposal for a law, so much so that you refer to that fictitious dialogue. I will also point out to you another problem that has your proposal for a law, and that is that from the beginning it does nothing but discredit the university system. I will propose a sentence in which I hope that at least they will agree with us: The Spanish university enjoys an internationally recognized tradition and prestige. At least they'll match me in that sentence. Well, it is not permissible for you to come to raise suspicions about the university, we cannot allow you to disqualify as widespread fraud a good system of scholarships in practice because you are accusing everyone involved in that system of corruption. Without a doubt, the text we are going to vote on today is infinitely better than yours, because - I have said it before - it is a text that does not generate the problems that your original text generates. You know why? Because, unlike the text you proposed, the People's Party text does not legislate against anyone; it seeks solutions. Its proposal for a law is harmful to the university, to all the components of the university system, but especially to the students, as they seek to deprive them of the great educational potential and the employability that gives them the ability to carry out the practices. All of you will be guilty that the students, if their proposal for a law comes forward, cannot carry out the practices, both you, Lords of Podemos, and those who support you in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, do not deceive the public, because you know that with your proposal for a law there will not be entities that can offer practices to complete the training of university students. Ladies and gentlemen, you can continue to work on a proposal that disqualifies, accuses the university system of illegality, corruption and widespread fraud; there the People's Party will not find it. We are not going to be the ones to dismantle the system of practices or those to accuse entities of fraud, we are not going to discredit a university system as you do in your bill. Undoubtedly, there are differences between his proposal and ours. Look, your course in this matter, as in many others, is summed up in one sentence: do what I say but not what I do. They say to fight against plugging; for ask Mr. Íñigo Errejón about a black scholarship or such a contract of employment. I think Málaga saw little work for him, but he also lied, because he's disabled by college. [[Shows a press clipping]] I don't need to remind you of certain press headlines. They say to fight against amigoism; for ask who was the professor who directed the research study for which Mr Errejón was hired. Perhaps now, at this moment, he can even be a national deputy. The truth is that the Errejón case was surprising by the rapid promotions that all involved had. I'll tell you some facts. Together with the director of the study, the current deputy of Unidos Podemos, the inspector of the university's service was appointed Director General of the Board of Education, and the rector of the University, Councillor of Education of the Board of Andalusia. The truth is that Mr Errejón seems to be a magnificent influence, especially when his performances are not exactly an example for the university students of this country. They say they're defending university students because they ask their partner the mayor of Madrid how many students she has without any help on the one known as Carmena radio. Are these the cases of widespread fraud to which you refer? After having so close and so many cases, I am not surprised by your suspicions of widespread fraud. But members of the practice system show much more integrity than some of their peers. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, they came to public life pretending to be the Robin Hood of Spanish politics, but they no longer deceive anyone, and their radical populism not only manages to harm everyone, but especially those you claim to protect. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso. Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u77	Thank you very much, President. I'm going to try to respond to the accusations the People's Party makes. No, we do not accuse them of the death of Manolete; we accuse them of generating a precarious labour market in this country; we accuse them of generating thousands of holes in the labour market; we accuse them of generating a low-productivity labour market, which causes wages in this country to be devalued in recent years; we accuse them of having expelled hundreds of thousands of young people from this country, who have had to go abroad to seek their lives. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] They said we hadn't agreed with anyone on the bill before we brought it here. Yes, we had previously worked with institutions, collectives and unions, but I'm going to ask you a question too. With whom did you agree on the 2012 labour reform? With whom did you agree on pension reform? With whom did you agree to bail out the bank? [[Applauds]] Explain it to me later if you have a chance. Then he said we were generating suspicions in college. Not much less. We trust the public university in this country. Those who have generated the discredit of the public universities of this country and the permanent suspicion are you, it is you with the corrupt plot of master's degrees given at the University King Juan Carlos, with the master's degree of Pablo Casado and with the master's degree of Cristina Cifuentes. [[Applauds]] Ask the students of this country, ask the students of King Juan Carlos who are outraged because they have managed to devalue their title. Do not teach me posters, ask students who has affected the degradation of the public university in this country: you, your policies and your corrupt practices. We do not really need to meet them with us in the process of this bill. We know that we are going to have them face to face, but nothing happens, because we are going to get this bill out of hand, we are going to get rid of that legal vacuum that you created, we are going to get rid of the fraud that occurs in the scholarships and the fraud that occurs with the bogus self-employed, we are going to get the rule of law back in this country for the labour market and we are going to get rid of the rule of law for workers' rights, which is what you tried to dismantle in the previous legislature. And this is just the beginning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u78	Thank you very much, Mr González. The Joint Parliamentary Group then takes the floor, first of all, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have two problems: one, which is very bad to lose and two, which live absolutely out of reality. Today they are presenting another amendment to the whole, another amendment. Since they lost the government in June 2018 - only six months - they have tabled amendments to everything that recognized rights in this House - to the law of euthanasia, to the law of LGBTI rights, to the law of universal health - and today they also present amendments to the law that tries to regulate academic practices. All in just six months. They're definitely in a bad way to lose. I remind you that we are talking about rights; I remind you that today we are talking in particular about the right to decent work and the right not to be exploited with contracts of fellows and false practices. And I also remind you that you have lost a motion of censure, a motion that is constitutional and therefore legitimate. So I ask you from here to stop blocking Parliament; they blocked it when they ruled through the veto and now block it through the extension of periods of amendment. Accept that they were condemned, accept that they lost the motion of censure and accept that this House wants to move forward and wants to legislate thinking about people. The second problem they have, as I told them, is that they live outside of reality. I'll give you some examples. I've been so lucky to have only one contract of practice. I did the university career, with his unpaid practices - like most people my age - and then I went to a public service one year, covering even job losses from my teammates. But I don't just want to set my example for them. Maria, one of my friends, is twenty-nine years old, a FP, a bachelor's degree and a master's degree. He's never had a contract for more than a year. Right now he has his first temporary contract, but under ordinary conditions. So far, she has been a scholarship student and has been engaged in internships. Mar, twenty-nine years, a bachelor's degree and two master's degrees. He has had several scholarship and internship contracts. He has now decided to study oppositions to see if he gets something a little more dignified. Puri, thirty-two years old, a bachelor's degree and two master's degrees. He has been as an intern in several offices; he is currently a self-employed fake. Mary, thirty-three years old, a bachelor's degree and two master's degrees. First, scholarship; then, exploited as an administrative and as a lawyer at the same time; finally, fake autonomous. I could go on with examples like Violet, like Paula, like Victor. This is what happens in reality; this is what people of my age have to live out there. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you have, for the time you have governed, made it clear that you had equal labour rights. They have made it clear that the people of my age we had to be the lost generation, the precarious generation and that they would make us work double, paying half and without the right to contribute. That's his model, a model that exploits, that lets young generations fall, that drops talent; it's his model, but his model lost a motion of censure. You have lost and have to accept it; you have lost the Government. So please withdraw and let this Parliament, at least the people who do want to legislate thinking about people, do so. Let us put an end to this precariousness and exploitation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are already voting in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law to update the regulation of university academic practices. It has been well said in this debate that a basic element for this Parliament to be able to legislate and update the regulatory frameworks is that the deadline for amendments which the Bureau regulates is reasonable, and it is good to recall that the tradition was three weeks of time for ordinary amendments and up to five weeks for extraordinary ones, but you are seeing that in this legislature the debates on amendments as a whole, the alternative texts and the presentation of amendments have an absolutely different framework. We voted in favour of this consideration, and the Education Spokesman of my parliamentary group, Mr Sergi Miquel, has already announced at the time that we would table amendments to modulate and modify the initial approach of Podemos. We support the updating of the regulation of practices since approximately 61% of university students who are in practice at the moment have no contract with Social Security or any framework for the protection of their practices and since we are talking about 52 000 young people in extracurricular or curricular practices, which according to studies by the European Union are about 150 000. Therefore, there are many students outside the regulatory framework. From the competitive point of view, the Autonomous Communities do not like the initial approach of the proposing group. Similarly, with regard to the existence of fraud scholarships, it is true that they do exist, but this cannot lead us to the consideration of widespread fraud in this area, as proposed by the proposing group. There are also some aspects that we would like to improve in the legislative process. It must be made easier for companies to have good conditions and a good position and predisposition to accommodate students in internships. At the same time, the status of these students in practice must be regulated. We agree with the proposing group that there should be a ratio of students in practice to the total number of workers in each of the companies, because if not some companies could base their labour and production on students in practice. Are there scholarships in fraud? Yeah. Can you say that this is a widespread fraud? We don't think so. We believe that this new framework, this update, should be set up in accordance with the European Education Area; for example, health practices, which are very specific, are not covered by the proposal for an initial law of Podemos. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have already voted in favour of the consideration and believe that it is good that this procedure should continue. We believe that some initiatives put forward by the alternative text of the PP can perfectly be incorporated into a consensus text. Ladies and gentlemen, we come here simply to discuss how to improve the framework of university practice, not to throw away the past, the policies of the past or things that have nothing to do with the objective of this proposal. We are going to vote against the amendment to the whole with alternative text and we hope that the handling of the texts in this House will be more agile than it has been until now in this Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Almost a year ago, at the plenary session on 28 November 2017, we maintained a position contrary to the consideration of the proposal for a law regulating external university academic practices, presented by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea; 28 November 2017. Today we are discussing the entire amendment that was tabled to the initiative a year ago and there is still the period for partial amendments, whether this is taken into consideration or not. I therefore believe that the legislative speed we are carrying is worthy of mention. The reasons for our opposition at the time to the proposal submitted by Podemos were clear, and they remain the same. The proposal in our view did not address in its entirety the problem of the transition from university education in this case to employment. Nor did it materialize an unnecessary increase in the status of the existing legislation with a comprehensive regulation that eliminates the possibility of its development by the autonomous communities, and of its concrete and adapted application to the universities. In our opinion, the proposal presented by Podemos aims to transfer to a law a practice developed at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid, obviating other equally successful experiences carried out in other centers of the state, and imposes on the entrepreneurs who welcome students the attention of the costs of the development of the practices, extreme that will undoubtedly not be the appropriate incentive for the essential adherence of a large number of companies to the deployment of this important formative modality. Nor did it envisage the promotion of the intermediary activity of organizations such as business associations or chambers of commerce, in order to facilitate and promote the collaboration of small and medium-sized enterprises. Despite this contrary position, which could be summarized in the view that there is no need for a specific law governing this matter, the Basque Parliamentary Group is going to submit a number of partial amendments to the text of the proposed law, seeking to improve it in the sense of the arguments set out in the amendments, which I assume will be the subject of appropriate debate and, if necessary, approval in the relevant Commission. Today the plenary of the Congress is concerned with discussing the amendment to the whole with alternative text that was presented by the People's Parliamentary Group on 30 October. The reading of this alternative text is at least surprising, both because of its inconsistency with the position held by the same group in the debate on the consideration of the proposed law - in that group that supported the Government at the time - and because of the virtually identical wording of this alternative text and the proposal put forward by the Podemos Parliamentary Group. Mrs Valmaña, who intervened in the discussion, rejected the proposal on that day because she considered that it had been drafted on the basis of a series of falsehoods, instigations and suspicions about the current system of external academic practices, which the proposal also disqualified as being the subject of alleged widespread fraud, and because she felt that it was unnecessary to regulate as a law a situation which was already properly regulated. It also added - among other issues the inconvenience of the elimination of extracurricular practices and of regulation in detail - a number of issues that invaded not only university autonomy, but also the educational and labour competences of the autonomous communities themselves. The alternative text presented by the People's Party disconcertingly forgets these arguments, in its day held by the then spokesman. And so, in addition to raising to the rank of law the existing regulatory regulations, regulates in detail competences that invade not only university autonomy, but also the educational and labour competences of the autonomous communities themselves, maintaining terms practically identical to those of the proposed law that a year ago rejected. The only substantial difference between the two texts is that the one now presented by the People's Group includes extracurricular practices, and does not necessarily extend the monthly economic remuneration, at least for the amount of the interprofessional minimum wage, considered as a right of the student in practice by article 11 of the proposed law. This would thus constitute the possible receipt of financial aid to cover the costs of the period of practice, provided that it is expressly provided for in the agreement on educational cooperation. Articles 9 and 11 of the alternative text say that. The rest of the alternative text is little more or less than a literal copy of the bill that you are amending in its entirety today. Our group, in line with the position held a year ago, also rejects this amendment as a whole, regretting, on the one hand, the incoherence of the Group of the European People's Party in presenting it, since the two amendments it seeks perfectly could be discussed in a more transparent and reasonable way through amendments to the joint text. We believe that this does not require an amendment as a whole. My group therefore remains consistent. We think, unlike other groups, that we do not need to regulate this matter by law, and since we think that we do not need to regulate by law, we do not think we need to regulate it by the law proposed by the People's Group. Our rejection of that consideration remains consistent with the rejection of the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u85	Deputies, deputies and president, good morning. More than a year ago this proposal has been sleeping in a parliamentary space/time unknown to most of us. The amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party has a virtue, and is that it has returned this proposal to this plenary, and let us hope that after today's vote it will not hide again, because time is important, and if it is true what the rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party has said - which I believe - it is urgent to do so. Let's hope so. Over the past few decades, universities have mainstreamed the possibility of their students having practical stays in the professional environment and forming part of their corresponding curriculum. The participation of university students in academic practices represents a fundamental added value in their training and gives them opportunities and valuable opportunities for the future. Moreover, the realization of these external practices of university students - I remind them that we have come to talk about this, not other things - constitutes one of the main passages between the studies and the first job, thus breaking a vicious circle that prevents the new graduate from accessing his first job because he lacks work experience, and at the same time prevents him from obtaining work experience because he cannot access the first job. The significant increase in the number of university students performing external academic practices has not been matched by labour regulations. Labour regulations have forgotten this, and again and again it is the university that encounters the conflict of having to regulate it on its own. Hence the appropriateness of this bill, which can certainly be improved in the presentation procedure - and we have already said so - but it is essential that we now work in this area. Until now, labour regulation has been virtually limited to establishing that the participation of university students in external academic practices in no case can lead to the birth of a labour relationship, and point. The poor regulation of academic practices of university students has led to many dysfunctions in the development of this figure. Firstly, it has allowed a significant abuse to take place, it is true, in the use by some companies, not a few, who go to these practices to replace their workers, with the aim of saving costs, because in vain those who perform these practices perform the same functions as an ordinary worker, without the corresponding salary. Secondly, there is the fact that university students can re-chain practical stays in the professional environment, which also calls into question the purpose of job placement. In other words, consideration as a bridge between training and work, which is attributed and fundamental to these internships. From 2011 to the present, multiple regulations have been adopted aimed at somehow ordering the unclassifiable amalgamation of non-working practical stays of students and recent graduates in the professional environment. At this point it is indisputable that Royal Decree 592/2014 has contributed decisively to the strengthening of the educational purpose, however there is a lack of greater strength in relation to the provision of certain labour rights that must correspond to the university student in practices, as is fundamentally - and here it has been said - to receive an economic compensation. This is why, more than ever before, special care must be taken to ensure the academic practices of university students, so that they can respond unequivocally to a training purpose in view of the more productive nature of any employment relationship. Listening to universities, listening to all the political parties in this House, but especially to students, we must help to draw up a good law. If the time or authority does not prevent it we will get it, but, beware, the time must be different from the space/time that has passed so far, that is, to let the time pass for things to continue the same. In this line of changing things, of improving them, of being next to the university and the companies that do it well, and of being very clear with those who want to take advantage of job insecurity, we go and we can do things well. This is our way of working. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u87	President, ladies and gentlemen, as all the previous speakers here have repeated, exactly one year ago I came up to this rostrum to discuss, to discuss the consideration of Podemos' proposed law on the regulation of university practices. At that time my parliamentary group abstained from taking this into consideration, because the law that Podemos presented really did not like us at all, it seemed to us to be a huddle - and I will now explain why -, although we sincerely thought it was right to open the debate on this issue, because it is true that there were some flanks that we had to address. At that time I was very hard and I said that the law of Podemos seemed to us to be a bodice because it was a law that really confused the barbecues with the merinas, since, first of all, they did not understand what university practices are, the formative practices and they confused them with the contracts in practice. I had to explain to them that it was a different question, that the end of training practices had to do with that, with the training of students, they were academic practices, compared to contracts in practice, which do have a labour dimension. I'm going to make a letter. Mrs Sorlí, you said that you were also a scholarship student, but you are also confusing academic practices with contracts in practice. So it served him very little that time he spent as an intern, and I also hope that you would at least charge, not as you are passing to the conversation assistants in Valencia, who are not in practice, and who after making an extreme announcement Mr Marzà has them with the month of October unpaid and with the month of December that they do not know whether they are going to charge or not, and those are not in practice. [[Applauds]] I'm talking about job insecurity and stuff. Secondly, the law of Podemos seemed to us a mud because it eliminated extracurricular practices. They have already been explained here that this was an absolute aberration, no longer just the regulation of curricular practices, that it was going to prevent many students from having the degree, but that extracurricular practices were eliminated. While countries like Finland or Denmark are making students not have one, but three practices, we said one or none. That is why we do not agree. Thirdly, another sluggish issue was the limitation of the incorporation of students into companies, that is, if a company could and had training capacity for students, we said no, because yes. Why? Oh, well, that's for sure. And after all, it was a law that had so many rigidities that, in fact, it made it impossible for practices to be concerted and a system that was working was loaded. At that time we announced that, as we were open to the debate, we were going to table a series of amendments. I say this because of the diligence that has been said, because we have been diligent and the battery of amendments that we want to put into the practice law of Podemos has been on record for more than two months. If we did not like the law of Podemos at all, I have to tell you, gentlemen of the People's Party, that we do not like its amendment at all either. And we don't like it on several issues. Firstly, for what I have just said, because an amendment to the whole of cercena de facto the debate that we believe we must have, and that we must incorporate some issues that we consider important. And we think that the partial amendments that we have tabled are a better solution than a new proposal that, in my view, does not bring anything new or improves. Secondly, we do not like your amendment as a whole because it circumvents issues that are very important to us in this respect. You do not set a temporary limitation on the total calculation of practices that students can develop. We agree that this must be done, because somehow we have to avoid any possibility of fraud, and if we allow students to concatenate, one after the other, extracurricular practices, on the one hand, we are blocking the labour market of graduates who have just left, and on the other, opening a door to the fraud of some companies. In addition, there is another important issue that you do not consider. In your amendment to the whole, you do not propose or plan to establish a uniform system for assessing the quality of practices, and an immediate and compulsory inclusion in the European supplement to the title. We believe that if they are training practices they have to be recognized, they have to be evaluated, they have to be believed and they have to be incorporated. Nor do you make it mandatory for external evaluation agencies to certify the validity and quality of these university practices. We already know that you, with the evaluation agencies, with Madrid+d+i and all the issues that have passed, are not very believers, but we do think that the evaluation agencies have to have a quality system that works better than with the master's degree of King Juan Carlos, and that really ensures that the practices are of quality and fulfil their function. Finally there is an important issue that we cannot admit, which is that you leave to the goodwill of the companies - you are men of faith - the issue of the remuneration of expenses that are generated from academic practices. We do not believe that it has to be the enterprises, we believe that it is the universities, which are responsible for the training of university students, who have to stipulate, within the framework of their competences, what the situations of remuneration or remuneration for the expenses that give rise to these training practices, because, I repeat, gentlemen who have preceded me in the use of the word, many of you still do not understand the difference between training practices, which are part of the careers, the degrees and the university training, and the employment contracts, the contracts in practice, which are part of the labour system. For all these reasons, gentlemen of the PP, we are going to do the same as we did with the proposal of Podemos: we abstained on that occasion, we are going to abstain in this consideration of amendment to the whole, and we will debate and fight for the partial amendments that, yes, we have diligently tabled, Mr de Podemos. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. For the Socialist Group, Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to associate myself with what some of the speakers who have spoken before me have said. It is not reasonable that one year later we are discussing this amendment as a whole. The blockade they have been subject to in this House all this time - first when they were government and now when they are opposition - I think it is not understandable on the part of the citizenry. The people who are seeing us - now as a public or on social networks - what they want is for us to do our job, and that means that we don't put problems, but that we solve them, and that we have been a year for this amendment to the whole is a sign of the respect you have for institutions and democracy. With regard to the issue that concerns us today, and which has to do with university practice, the truth is that the intervention of the spokesman for the People's Group has made clear its philosophy, which is to deny part of the reality, because to say that there is no fraud in university practice is not to know what happens in university practice. Of course there is a percentage of fraud that we should worry about and deal with. Indeed, one of the objectives of this non-law proposal, when it was presented at the time, was to address this fraud. But in addition to that, what we intend - we have our own position and criteria - is to give them the end they really should have, which is the formative end. We believe that university practices have to have a formative purpose, not only is it a labour issue, it also has to do with training, but what we cannot allow is that for this formative purpose there is job insecurity, that students are abused, and that we therefore not only have students working to replace other workers, but we have workers who will also be affected by this precariousness. That is why we have a challenge ahead of us in this regulation, a challenge that eliminates abuse in university practices, that regains its main function which is its formative character, and that we also do so in dialogue, talking to the university community and to all those who have to do with universities. What we did not like about your amendment to the whole, and that is why we are going to oppose, has been that you eliminate any subsequent rights that the student might have in practice if he joined, for example, that company, and are therefore opting to eliminate rights and not to give them. Nor do we like them to leave extracurricular practices in absolute deregulation. Should we include them? Of course, but they are not sufficiently regulated in your proposal. They also reduce to a minimum all that has to do with economic compensation, and allow accounts for companies to be difficult to manage. The philosophy of your amendment to the whole does not like us and does not convince us, because in the background it responds to your ideology. What you like is to deregulate: deregulated markets, without rights, flexible, and we know that in those markets it is the most successful that has the most power, that it is not just the student. So we don't like the philosophy that inspired your amendment to the whole. We also tell them - as we said in the discussion - that we are not entirely convinced of the text presented by Unidad Podemos. We had serious doubts about some issues, we believed that they had done so without dialogue, and we later found that they did, because after contacting the CRUE I am sure that they have changed their position; I am sure that the position of Uniti Podemos is not the same as a year ago, because they have spoken to the university community as a whole, and it was important to talk to the universities and the Rectors. We also believed - that was our work in the presentation of this law - that there was excessive regulation in some issues I will say below. So we want to have our own position; between the deregulation of the People's Party and between the excessive regulation of Podemos, is the position of the Socialist Party. And what is the position of the Socialist Party? We believe that we must include extracurricular practices, of course, we must include them, and we must do so because they are the ones that give students more opportunities and more employability. But what's the problem? They're the ones with the most fraud, the ones with the most abuse. So you have to regulate them much more than you do, giving students much more rights. We believe that there is an intermediate position between reducing economic compensation and the interprofessional minimum wage to the minimum; there are intermediate positions, we are going to explore them, but what we cannot accept is that there is no remuneration, but we will have to explore what it is going to be, how it is going to be done, and of course that it does not place a burden on university practice, but that it does not place an abuse on the part of companies. We also believe that the curricula are sufficient to regulate the time limits that university practice should have; therefore the excessive regulation that United We can do at the time did not convince us, and if we aspire to that dual training where practice and business really play an important role, we should remove the limits that they set and rely much more on the curricula, because as it was contemplated in its day, that could cause problems for many universities. I am thinking of a title that has the Autonomous University of Barcelona that establishes a very important cooperation between the university and the world of the company. We therefore understand that this position was not correct either. Finally we trusted the universities, and as we did, we believed that in their initial proposal there was an excess of regulation and bureaucracy in which we will surely have to work in establishing university conventions and practices. For this reason, our group, which has its own position, the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a rigorous, dialogueal position that trusts universities and gives students rights, is the one that we are going to defend. We are going to oppose your amendment as a whole, but of course we are going to work on a set of amendments that will make this initial proposal a better proposal, a proposal where we can all of course cooperate, and that basically recover the formative spirit of practice, that trusts in the work of universities, and that avoids fraud by giving students rights. That is the position that the Socialist Group maintains and that is why we oppose its amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Urquizu.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u91	The next item is the debate on the proposal for an organic law amending the criteria for applying the expenditure rule. Two amendments to this bill have been tabled in full, with an alternative text. Mr De la Torre Díaz spoke in defence of his respective amendments, first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now beginning the debate on the amendments to the whole of which is probably the most important rule of the Spanish financial and budgetary system, which is the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, and of course as the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, was foreseeable, is not here today, that is, despite everything she has said over all these months, it seems to Mrs Montero that the deficit path, the budgets and the fixing rules do not seem to be relevant to her. The interests of each are optional, but a minister or a minister cannot choose whether or not to attend the Congress of Deputies when he or she is regularly summoned, at least if he or she intends to comply with articles 108, 110, 66, etc. of the Constitution. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group finds this attitude regrettable and has therefore called for the rejection of the Minister of Finance. We are not surprised that he is not here today, nor did he surprise us that he was not here yesterday, but not for this reason his attitude does not seem to us to be less serious. I would like to say that it is always an honour for me to rise to this rostrum of the Congress of Deputies on behalf of my parliamentary group, but today it is especially so. Today we are discussing an amendment to the whole of the sensible alternative of Citizens to the obvious risk of fossilization of the rule of spending established by the People's Party in its Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, but above all to populism and separatism of the amendment of Podemos and the former Socialist Party that supported it. That is why we are here today proposing a sensible alternative. Before I begin with the content, I would like to make it clear that, for Citizens, the rules do not change in the middle of the game. We can all consider the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability to be better, but it will be with this law, if it depends on Citizens, with which the General Budgets of the State and the deficit path are discussed, when the Government will be pleased to bring them to this House and thus fulfil its obligations. With that law and not with any other amendment, if any, to be made. We're not gonna change the rules in half a game. Perhaps the People's Party will do it with one of its shells, then failed pacts, with the Socialist Party, but we are not going to do it. [[Applauds]] And this applies with all the content of our amendment to the whole, including also the veto of the Senate, that is, how the Senate interacts in this process, which is part of this amendment. This part of the amendment will then be defended by my colleague Mr Roldán, and here I would like to thank the Bureau of the Committee on Finance for having this debate and for having this issue come to the next item on the agenda. The 2012 Organic Law on Budget Stability of the People's Party established a rule that limits the growth of public spending. However, this rule of expenditure normally applies when an Administration has surplus, because if it has deficit, what it has to do is limit its expenditure precisely in order not to be in deficit. This rule of spending guarantees the surplus and needs flexibility, but the approach of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability that brought us We can be foolish, in our opinion, because if only the rule of spending is applied when there is a deficit, in practice the rule of spending would never apply, and we cannot have spending without rules because this threatens financial stability and, in the medium term, the sustainability of public services. Consequently, what does Citizens propose? In the first place, Citizens propose a change in the concept of sustainable financial investment. Every year we discuss here a decree-law on sustainable financial investments by expanding the catalogue. Defining these sustainable financial investments gives rise to a lot of red tape and, therefore, we propose a negative catalogue, saying what is not sustainable financial investment and, thus, we would eliminate red tape and expand the possibilities for municipalities to take on these sustainable financial investments. Secondly, and most importantly, we propose that, while the structural surplus is maintained, the tax reduction does not penalise the calculation of the expenditure rule per se. Therefore, in our redefinition, we pretend that the municipalities can not only spend more but return the money to the Spaniards, thus incentivizing the economy. We propose that tax rebates be possible in the municipalities, because we will propose them as long as there are healthy accounts. In all this we are guided by the proposals made at the time by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority. Having said that, the fundamental reason why we - being all the previous important issues as well - have proposed the reform of this Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, of the proposal of Podemos, is because this proposal repealed articles 24, 25, 26, and additional provision 1 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability. I may not say anything to them, but it was precisely the articles that allowed the intervention of the accounts in Catalonia, which left the state unharmed in financial terms in the face of the separatist coup. We therefore believe that the fundamental thing is that these rules should not be repealed, not just because of an obvious question of the separatist challenge, but in order to avoid situations such as those in Madrid. Unbelievably, Madrid, with a disastrous management of the City of Madrid, has 1000 million euros in surplus, basically because it is not able to execute the investments; but at least it has 1000 million euros in surplus, because if there was no Organic Law on Budgetary Stability it would have triggered customer spending instead of having surplus. Returning to the question of the separatist challenge, which is essential to understand why we are here, the reality is that with Mr Montoro - who is also not with us today, who is the main intellectual author of this Organic Law on Budgetary Stability - I have had many discrepancies, both in the massive tax increases - we must remember that the People's Party is the party that has raised the taxes most in history - and in the tax amnesty, to which we also opposed as a parliamentary group. Mr Montoro is also the gentleman who appeared in the Finance Committee of this House on 31 August 2017, saying that not a single euro was going to finance the separatist referendum in Catalonia. He then also denied the issue of misappropriation of public revenues. However, it must be acknowledged that Mr Montoro was the only minister of the Rajoy government who, before Citizens pushed the application of Article 155, tried to do something to pay for this coup. He signed a ministerial order that allowed the intervention of the finances in Catalonia, and this ministerial order the only ones that we support it were those of Citizens. It is also good to recall that the first step taken by the Government of Sánchez was to put an end to the financial control of the Generalitat of Catalonia. For us it is vital to restore control of the finances in Catalonia, not because of spending on waste, not because of brilliant ideas such as the embassies abroad or TV3 separatist propaganda, but because of a much more important issue, which is that we must ensure that not a single euro of the taxes that we Spanish pay is destined for illegal purposes like CDR, etc. [[Applauds]] This ministerial order, which was widely discussed on very recent dates, was declared by the Supreme Court to be legal by unanimity. And this was picked up the other day by the writing of the State Advocate in the prosecution, and in that writing it did recognize that it was precisely due to the misappropriation of public revenues. Yesterday we learned that the person who wrote that writing, the former president of the State Bar Association, Edmundo Bal, was dismissed by the Minister of Justice. From here, to a public servant, to a partner, to someone who has persecuted tax criminals, and to a person who believes in the right application of the law, we have to express to him today from the Citizen Parliamentary Group all our solidarity. [[Applauds]] We are going to have the Minister of Justice present for an explanation and, above all, today Edmundo Bal must be told that he has more dignity than the whole government of dignity together. What is relevant in this matter? This proposal for an organic law to control the expenditure rule leads to the impossibility that the accounts of a municipality that spends more on the account or that is out of control, as there are some cases, but substantially of those administrations that are still controlled by those that hit democracy. That is why we believe that a change, our alternative and our amendment to the whole should be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that you must vote in favour of our amendment as a whole for quite a few reasons, mainly because we need to avoid the fossilisation of the People's Party's expenditure rule - this must be made more flexible - and on the other hand, we cannot fall into the temptation of United We can end budgetary stability; moreover, there must be control and budgetary stability, we are being demanded from Europe. We must do exactly the opposite of what the Socialist Government has done, which has submitted accounts that no one is believed, but above all we must guarantee financial stability, including the unity of the State, by not allowing Spanish tax money to go to illegal ends, let alone to strike democracy. We must give instruments to the State and this proposal of United We can take them away. For these reasons, I therefore call for the full support of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. Mr Marí Bosó has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. I defend on behalf of the People's Group the amendment to the whole with alternative text that we have submitted to the proposal for a law of the United Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea which seeks to repeal the rule of expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards have made a great effort in recent years to leave behind a very severe economic crisis. The Spaniards during these years have made every effort to save our model of economic and social progress. Getting out of a very severe economic crisis has been in these years the great common project of all of them, and do it quickly and do it together and do it right, as we have done. Thanks to this intense effort, we have moved from recession to growth, from unemployment to job creation, from the collapse of administrations to administrations that were able to re-establish social protection and development policies, from rampant growth, inequality and social exclusion, to the reduction of inequality and exclusion for the fourth consecutive year, as evidenced by the Gini index and the Arope indicator in our country. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it was an effort that allowed us to transform a country that was postponed and into resignation, as the wrong policies left us, into a country that was recovered. When citizens strive, when our elders, as they have done in these years when they could already devote themselves to rest and retirement, had to help their families to get ahead, when our public servants multiplied their efforts so that the administrations did not fail, when our entities in the third social sector arrived where the Administration did not arrive, maintaining and enduring the protection network we have for dependents and those with disabilities, when our workers and employers rose the blind every morning to get ahead or when different generations of Spaniards, sharing a common project, had and have the ambition to improve and progress, it is not the same as they have a government that with rigorous policies accompanies that effort and leads the return to well-being as another government that, lost in the maze of corrections, seeks to repeal all that effort. It's not the same, ladies and gentlemen. It is not the same to do policies that create jobs as those that fill the queues of unemployment. It is not the same to place the economy in growth as to make the wrong policies that lead us to slow down and slow down. It is not the same to do policies that increase inequality as those that have allowed us to break the trend and to take four years already reducing it, as it is not the same, ladies and gentlemen, to talk at all times about banks and be like Mrs Carmena, who is the one who returns the most money to banks because she does not know how to execute their budgets. [[Applauds]] Of course, it's different, it's very different to fill your mouth and promise, for example, twenty-four sports facilities or twelve dissuasive parking lots and not to do one in four years, such as Mrs Carmena, or to do, as the Malaga City Council has done, neighborhood sports facilities, improvement of children's parks or a great investment in the separation of fecal and rain nets in your city during this legislature. It's not the same, ladies and gentlemen. With the same rule of spending it is not the same to know how to manage well and improve the city for the neighbors, as has been done by the People's Party in the City Hall of Malaga, that drown in lamentations and excuses, that nothing solves, as has Mrs Carmena in these four years in the City Hall of Madrid. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is different and not the same. If that great effort that I was talking about has borne fruit, it is because the appropriate economic and fiscal policy measures that have allowed it have been adopted, including the Budget Stability Act, the reduction of the government deficit and the expenditure rule. Ladies and gentlemen, when our administrations were collapsing, drowning in the ocean of debts without being able to respond when citizens most needed them, it was thanks to the Stability Act and the rule of spending, which with this proposal they seek to repeal, that our administrations were able to pay to suppliers. It was thanks to the Stability Act and the spending rule that our administrations reduced the large debt they had, passing through our local entities, for example, from 42 billion live debt in 2012 to 29 billion live debt in 2017, a third of reducing local debt. Or also by deploying social policies, because thanks to the Law of Stability and the rule of spending our local entities have gone from allocating 24 billion euros in the social functions of their budgets in 2012 to 27 billion euros in the last liquidation of local entities in 2016. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, repealing the rule of spending and the Stability Act and returning to uncontrolled public spending, as they propose, is a mistake that harms our fellow citizens. Five months of Mr. Iglesias in the vice-presidency of uncontrolled public spending have been enough for our country to re-establish itself in uncertainty. It has taken Mr Sánchez five months to fly over our firmament so that the slowdown has become a reality, as the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission have pointed out, which has certainly given them a very good shave to the 2019 budget plan because it is incredible. It was five months, in the end, of Mrs Montero walking from one side to the other announcing a fiscal hell for everyone so that the braking had occurred. The Budget Stability Act and the expenditure rule should be maintained rather than repealed. We need to make the spending rule of our local entities more flexible instead of going back to the free bar that hurt our fellow citizens so much. To make the spending rule more flexible, as the People's Party has been doing in recent years with the 2014 amendment, introducing changes so that financially sustainable investments are not computable; with the possibility of applying the budget surplus in the following two years so that our local entities can implement the investments they planned and so that they do not compute in the expenditure that computes the rule; and with the Royal Decree-Law 1/2018, in which we broaden the assumptions of financially sustainable investments. The rule of expenditure must be relaxed but not repealed; the rule of expenditure must be relaxed, as we propose today with the alternative text that we have presented, in order to lower taxes, in order to allow our local authorities to increase municipal taxes in order to promote economic activity and the generation of employment, of our self-employed and of small and medium-sized enterprises. So that our local authorities can also extend social protection policies by lowering taxes to those particularly vulnerable groups such as the unemployed over fifty-two years old, the long-term unemployed, large families, our pensioners or those who are victims of gender-based violence. It is not time for uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen, it is not time for derogations, it is not time to dismantle growth or propose that we spend two years in the government until 2020. Because that is to the detriment of all; it is to the detriment of those who seek employment; it is to the detriment of those who wish to improve the quality of the jobs they already have; it is to the detriment of our young people, who want to be emancipated; it is to the detriment of our workers and entrepreneurs or those who want to start a business, or of those who expect their city council, their local administration, to make the precise policies that meet their needs. Ladies and gentlemen, when it is said that this country has lost cohesion, when it is intended to weaken coexistence through the 'worst, better' or when the only policy that is proposed to us is to warm up the chair without doing anything, it is important not to forget that the different generations of Spaniards who have travelled together these forty years of democracy have at every moment been able to pool the important. We did it in the transition from dictatorship to democracy; we did it by building our welfare state in the 1980s; we did it by realizing our old aspiration to walk together with the best Western democracies in the European project and we have done it now, when it has come out of a serious economic crisis without leaving anyone behind. That is why we cannot now disappoint the hope of a country, ladies and gentlemen; that is why we must now put aside the words and the insubstantial policies; that is why we cannot now devote ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, to spoiling the path of new progress and well-being that we had begun with the same policies that led us to discredit and recession. It is now time to do the stimulus policies, making our spending rule more flexible with the drop in municipal taxes; it is time to abandon the uncertainty to maintain the recovery and to make, as the People's Parliamentary Group proposes, this recovery to be more and more and more people. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mrs Ramos Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising, even if you try to do so in each of your speeches, whether it is education, water management, taxes, or whatever, that the Citizens Group always brings here an attempt to re-centralise and cut social spending. Normally you disguise it with another speech; I thought that on this occasion you were going to disguise it with a Europeanist speech, but you have not even gone directly to cut down on competences and democracies. I would like to remind you that this debate is about a measure that limits municipal autonomy and social investment. Furthermore, the application of this expenditure rule that we are discussing is not taking place as is being done in Spain in any other country of the European Union. As explained by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, the application of the expenditure rule deriving from the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability is different from the interpretation that is being made of it at European level, where instead of applying to each of the public administrations it applies to all of them and where it is an indicator of the medium-term objective and therefore its non-compliance has no consequences in the form of sanctions. However, the regulation deriving from our legislation imposes an unjustifiably rigid rule on each and every one of the administrations, based on volatile and changing forecasts that the autonomous and local administrations are forced to comply under threat of greater control and sanction by the central administration. We want to clarify a few things at this point. Firstly, the reasons why my parliamentary group tabled this bill, and secondly, that the amendments to all the groups of citizens and the PP propose to suffocate the local administrations more, to attack the division of powers and call for a re-centralisation that allows social cuts and that violates democratic principles. I would like to remind you that the new inclusion of the rule of spending in the law responds to an interest in intensifying budgetary restrictions that are reaching a level that cuts the absurdity. This rule is preventing public administrations from using their money for equipment, accessibility or incentives for investment or employment, or for the rehabilitation of homes and a long one. By setting an example that I think is usually used to colloquially explain the spending rule, it is as if a family after paying their mortgage, receipts, school and filling the fridge had a remaining money that could not be spent on, for example, your daughter's orthodontics because there is a rule that forces you to amortize a future mortgage even though you have already paid this month's fee. That sounds really absurd. Alongside these negative economic and social consequences, it should be added that the reform was an instrument with worrying re-centralizing elements and that it includes economic sanctions for administrations that do not meet budgetary objectives, as well as central government intervention mechanisms that undermine the principles of autonomy and governance in the various areas of administration. In addition, this legal text implies an unfair distribution of the effort of budgetary stability and imposes greater discipline on autonomous communities and local entities but allows a greater margin for the central administration, that is, it is the municipalities that are paying the deficit of the State. In addition, the autonomous and local powers in the area of budgetary autonomy enshrined in both the Spanish Constitution and the various autonomous statutes are violated and invaded, and the political sovereignty and development of self-government are seriously undermined. Nor can we forget that in the context of the crisis it has been the autonomous communities and the municipalities that have made the most efforts to meet the deficit target. The application of this so-called expenditure rule is causing local governments to be obliged to maintain significant tax surpluses without being able to devote them to dealing, in addition to their powers, with the extraordinarily high rates of social exclusion. According to the indicator Arope 30% of the population is in this situation. Councils that have drastically reduced negative cash balances inherited from the People's Party cannot invest in, for example, housing rehabilitation, employment or improvements needed to end this social exclusion. In particular, article 12 of the above-mentioned Act is unjustifiably restricting the performance of local corporations in a context in which significant budgetary surpluses coexist with pressing social needs, also due to fundamental public services weakened after years of severe budgetary constraints. Ladies and gentlemen, the municipalities cannot guarantee minimum welfare levels right now, and we are talking about the absurdity of more than EUR 24 billion in deposits, that is, almost all debt. That money is in bank accounts that are paid at a wonderful price of 0% and, meanwhile, people cannot see how their public policies are improved. In addition, as it is now applied, the expenditure rule represents a comparative aggravation for local corporations in relation to the degree of fiscal consolidation required by the central administration in comparison, since there is no real assessment of compliance with the expenditure rule by the State. And what do you propose in your amendment? I mean that of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, that of the PP I will enter quite little because they have not bothered to make a minimally dignified statement of reasons. I would like to thank Mr Marí for his explanation in his presentation. The amendment to the PP is reduced to being able to lower or raise taxes without affecting expenditure, however much they disguise them as very cool bonuses. Let's see, local corporations don't need anyone above who prevents them from allocating their budget to modify taxes and fees for women victims of male violence. They must be able to do so because, otherwise, it would be a violation of article 140 of the Constitution. I shall now refer to that of the Citizens' Group. Our proposal seeks to change this spending rule so that those administrations that have surpluses can use it in the needs of the citizenry. Our proposal also points - and I think it is important - in the direction of restoring autonomy, even partially, to local corporations, thus avoiding the centralization of power that the current drafting gives to the Ministry of Finance. We understand that this governmental capacity, which cuts across dictatorial boundaries, must be brought to an end because we cannot talk about living in a decentralized State and, on the other hand, letting the Government have almost absolute power of intervention over any Administration that does not spend its own money in the way that the central Government likes. Given the possibility that the municipalities that save can use these savings to help citizens, you, Lords of Citizens, say that this savings cannot be spent because it would cause deficit. But how can savings be spent? In any case, what causes deficit is spending more than one collects. I read your text. You say that we intend to exempt from the rule of spending municipalities with surplus, that is to say those who collect too much - which you yourselves recognize to be the majority - and say that this would mean that municipalities could increase their spending without raising taxes to finance them. I'm standing here. The surplus is already financed, it is already collected, it means that it has been raised above budget, that there is more money in the box than it comes out. It means we've put a 100-per-cent tax on people and we're giving them back only 90 in services. This would mean that municipalities could increase their spending without raising their taxes. They also propose to impose by law that when administrations have surpluses they can lower taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that this is the best political decision, do not put it by law, run for election with that program and let the citizenry decide. Entering into more details of your amendment, you want to take away even more autonomy from the municipalities, giving it to the central government. In particular, in article 12, they call for the Government to have the power to detail through regulations how the expenditure rule can be complied with or not, thus generating party arbitrariness and legal insecurity for municipal democratic bodies, which will not know what to stick to given that the Government could change this rule. And in their proposal to amend section 15(6) they want Congress to need three-fifths of the House to lift the Senate veto, which we believe is pure and hard opportunism. They want to change the PP veto in the Senate for another in Congress. What they should do is let each executive, if they have the majority in the plenary, have the freedom to implement their agenda and implement their political vision. We're on. In its article 21, they requested that the Administration that had complied with the rule or objective of expenditure should be forced to impose additional cuts that offset the overexpenditure in respect of those mandates. This means empowering the Executive, according to its proposal to impose additional cuts on local corporations despite having surplus and being able to meet financial sustainability. In the same vein, they add in the sixth additional provision that it will be the Government by ministerial order that it could define what is a financially sustainable investment, allowing a degree of discretion and restriction against municipalities that are not in the Government's interest or that do not interest them. Finally, in the first final provision they support the power of international banking. They know that article 35 of the Constitution was changed with night and light in 2011 by the PP and PSOE under pressure from international financial markets. This reform has been written by the international bank to steal sovereignty from people, taking over their public finances. Really, ladies and gentlemen, until you begin to protect the state and its people, please don't talk about homelands or flags anymore because you are actually representing financial capital interests, mostly very rich foreign gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramos. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. To be honest, it is difficult to understand why your ladies and gentlemen of Podemos reject our amendment as a whole. Frankly, it's complicated and I come up here to tell you that in the next turn of the line, you try a little harder and you clarify your position. Firstly, on some obvious issues, yesterday the European Commission and also the International Monetary Fund made very harsh criticisms of the Spanish situation of fiscal consolidation and stability. All of them measure us by the joint deficit of all public administrations. Therefore, even if you ask how you can cause deficit to be spent the surplus, if you increase the expenditure above the surplus you have, at the end you have deficit. Besides that, any citizen is not only a neighbour of a municipality but also a citizen of an autonomous community and a Spanish citizen. This means that, although it is false what you are saying that the municipalities are paying the state's spending - teach me a single bill from the state that they are paying the municipalities -, what happens is that, if they measure us by the global deficit and you get that the municipalities do not have a single euro of surplus, in the end you will have to raise taxes to the citizens so that the global deficit does not go off and we do not put Spain's financial stability at risk. By trying to be minimally clear, you are proposing not a rule of spending, but spending without rules. That is waste and that puts the financing of public services at risk. Let's be serious. In other words, the expenditure rule limits the increase in expenditure. And when does he do this? When the corresponding Administration has surplus, because when it has deficit its first limitation is to end the corresponding deficit. Therefore, you in practice want to literally load all the rules of the spending rule. I have missed - to see if you can answer me - a second question. Please explain to me why you want to load articles 24, 25, 26, the first additional provision of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and the regulations of the FLA. Why do you want to do all that? I say this to you: because if not the independenceists and nationalists did not vote for all this. Why? Because they are the rules that allowed minimum control and helped prevent the coup against democracy in Catalonia, because a coup not only needs coups, it also needs money. [[Applauds]] In one thing they are right: the spending rule cannot be fossilized and needs to be updated. But, of course, it cannot be updated in such a way that we abolish the rule of spending in practice. At present, there is a sufficiently broad catalogue of sustainable financial investments so that municipalities can spend much of the surplus. There are municipalities like that of Madrid, ruled by you - well, no, it is true, that Podemos is no longer in the City Hall of Madrid because they have expelled all the councillors -, which was ruled by you before and today by Mrs Carmena with the support of a coalition of independents, that if it has 1000 million surplus is not by any kind of special restriction, but because they could not spend on waste. That's right, they could spend on sustainable financial investments and they're not able to execute them; they have the lowest degree of implementation in history. One may think that Podemos has thrown their councillors because of this degree of inefficiency in executing investments, but they have not, in fact, thrown them out for Stalinism or because they do not want to run on their lists. In short, we maintain this amendment in its entirety and ask all groups to support it on a point of common sense, and it is that we cannot have expenses without rules, above all, because we cannot leave the State unharmed no longer in the face of the mismanagement of former United States Podemos and Carmena in Madrid or of Colau in Barcelona, but above all in the face of the separatist challenge of those who do not want to comply with the laws either in the financial sphere. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. Mr Marí Bosó has the floor at the turn of the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Ramos, one always goes up to the rostrum in the hope of convincing you of something one day, at least with the attitude of debate. I know that you normally have that provision too, and what happens is that today you have dropped a line of statements with little sustenance and with little argumentation, so you find yourself in the thesis that the debate gives us little of itself. You have pointed out: listen, it is that you have not even presented justification for the amendment to the whole of your proposal to repeal the expenditure rule, but it is that the law was done by the People's Party, the Budget Stability Act and the expenditure rule was approved by the People's Party. That is our most important argument, our greatest justification, and you propose to repeal it. We, as we have been proposing and doing during these years with financially sustainable investments, with the possibility of applying the surplus of the year in the following two years, with the expansion of the assumptions of the investments, intend today to take a step further and to make it more flexible so that our local entities can lower taxes to their neighbours in two days, as I have already explained, with tax subsidies to encourage economic activity and development to our autonomous and our small and medium-sized enterprises and with tax subsidies to the most vulnerable groups to extend the social protection policies that the municipalities make. If you and your left-wing colleagues had not repealed from the Budget Stability Act of 2006 the part that established the rules of fiscal discipline, another rooster would have sung to us because that part of the AIReF you do not like to hear it. If in 2006 they had not repealed the Stability Act, the adjustment we had to make in this very serious crisis would not have been so important because we would have saved in times of good times to be able to apply it in times of economic crisis. That's the rule of spending, it's pure Keynesianism, saving in good times to apply it when things come wrong. Another question. I have already pointed out to you that the expenditure rule has not affected, that there is a problem of good and effective public managers and public managers who are not good or effective. Mrs. Carmena, what are you doing? He promises many things, but he doesn't do any and at the end of the year he finds a surplus that he has to take back to the banks. I have already told you that in the Municipality of Malaga, of the People's Party, sports facilities have been made in neighbourhoods, a very positive policy has been adopted that is that of the unfolding of faecal and rainy sanitation networks. Another example, Mrs Ramos, is the A Coruña City Council, which had to move 1.8 million euros for social emergency policies to cover the hole of a municipal bicycle company. [[Applauds]] It is just that, Mrs Ramos, there is a difference between talking a lot about people and worrying about people and there is a difference between making policies that benefit people and policies that, unfortunately, harm people. Finally, you have told us that you know a family that, after feeding all its members, after the little ones in the house can go to school, they want to pay for oral treatment and the spending rule prevents it. That's what you've come to point out. How lucky you are to meet these families. You can know them now; we met the families who went to the social eateries in 2011 and 2012, and we had to quickly implement the necessary policies that would allow us to increase our administrations' revenues to save the ocean from debt and lower the superfluous spending of our administrations in order not to apply it to the bicycle company and apply it to the social emergency we had at that time. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mrs Ramos, share something we say and do not derogate from the spending rule because that harms our citizens. Help us at every moment to adjust and relax the spending rule to make a better policy for the benefit of neighbours and municipalities, but also our autonomous communities and our country. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí. In turn, Mrs Ramos Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Marí, we are not asking for the repeal of the expenditure rule, but for the modification of some criteria that are preventing public administrations from dealing precisely with the problems of those families that you reminded me that they are still there, even if you think they are not. Although we are talking about an economic recovery, this is not reaching families and this spending rule, as it is now, is preventing public administrations from dealing with these social emergencies. That is why we are calling for these criteria to be changed. One thing we also commented on - and I also say this by Citizens - is that Rajoy and Montoro have not fulfilled any year in the central government the rule of spending; that is, the supervisor and controller imposed what they were unable to do. I would also like to remind you that with these amendments and their defence you intentionally and dangerously ignore, on the one hand, the division of powers between the Legislature and the Executive and, on the other hand, the territorial division; division that we know you do not like anything. On the one hand, they claim that the Government decides by ministerial order matters which should be decided by law, which are those representing popular sovereignty and which also provide legal certainty. And on the other hand, they completely ignore, as I told them, the division of territorial competences. You cannot by law tell the municipalities - which is actually telling people - what political decisions should be made. That has to be decided at the polls because it is a political decision whether the surplus is used to lower taxes or to improve investments. Frankly, after those interventions I believe that what is most troubling you is precisely municipal sovereignty and you take every opportunity to put an end to that sovereignty. Not in vain, Mr Albert Rivera has pointed out that a possible constitutional reform does not necessarily have to lead to greater decentralization. Knowing his ultra-nationalist inertias and in the light of the constitutional reform proposed by his party in the last elections, this is a threat that we should all take very seriously. The truth is that there are no parties more unconstitutional and unconstitutional in this country than the People's and Citizens' Party, which are dedicating themselves to bombarding coexistence. They have none of the legislative chambers, first in Spain and then in Catalonia, and now they intend to empty the competences of the municipalities by imposing public policies from the central government because neither of them are able to win them at the polls. Another argument you have used - and I think it is one of the problems you have - is that municipalities, if they are sovereign, cannot manage their resources and will spend over their possibilities. However, gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, if we stick to the facts, here it has only been wasted when it has been stolen beyond its possibilities, ladies and gentlemen. If we talk about the PP, there is Esperanza Aguirre in Madrid, there are thirty-five municipalities with cases of corruption in Murcia - thirty-five of forty-five, which is not bad at all - there is Gürtel and the long et cetera that already told them one by one my partner Irene Montero. But in Citizens they do not remain short, ladies and gentlemen, of four municipalities in which this formation achieved mayorship, three have been sprinkled by corruption scandals or by harmful management, as in Valdemoro, where they led to a city that had surplus to bankruptcy. This is what they did with a well-established spending rule. That, as you see, is not to prevent a city council from investing in social improvement, which is going to avoid improving or ruining a municipality. No wonder that if this is the vision you have of the municipalities you want to cut back on them skills and funding. For us it is just the opposite, for us are the municipalities from which we can deal - like Barcelona de Ada Colau - with multinationals and from what we can defend the right to housing. It is from the municipalities, like that of Madrid de Carmena, from where it is expected to end this 2018 having reduced more than half of the city's living debt. Perhaps, instead of going to other municipalities where they do not have representation, as they did in Alsasua, they should be alert to the municipalities where they do and thus avoid giving management lessons to those who are not willing to give them. Despite your continuing attempts from democratic institutions to cut rights and centralize competences, we are quite calm because we are precisely the parliamentary groups to which you continually insult, those to which Mrs Dolors Montserrat calls the Russian dagger, the herriko tavern and I do not know what else, it is we who are curbing their policies, policies that have a direct effect on the rights of the citizens of this country, on the bill of water, light, mortgage, pension and their minimum wage. Finally, I have to say that it also reassures us to see how you have given up winning any important municipality in 2019 because, seeing your proposals, no neighbor's son will want you in the town hall of your town or city, because if you are going to rule in municipalities such as Barcelona, Madrid, Zaragoza, Cadiz, Coruña and so many other municipalities of change will know how difficult it is to do so with the rope of the spending rule by tightening your neck permanently. So, look, there's no harm in not coming: if all the fireworks that continue to mount by the conflict in Catalonia occupy them so long that they have already resigned to not governing, I am convinced that the citizenry will thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramos. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The expenditure rule is one of the tools that Law 2/2012 has used to try to contain public expenditure and, consequently, the defence of the interests of the most vulnerable people, which in turn is a consequence of the unfortunate reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution which had the same objective: to make the victims of the crisis pay the consequences of the crisis, a kind of double punishment. New Canarias therefore fully shares the need to modify the criteria for applying the expenditure rule. It must be made clear that the rule of spending as defined in Spanish legislation is much tougher and more demanding than it is as applied and defined by the European Union, and it also has the immediate consequence of seriously harming the worst people once again. Because if the spending rule is supposed to absolutely limit the spending capacity of public administrations, what it means is that in the end there is a lot of money, a regrettable tax surplus in banks when people's needs are what they are. New Canarias is going to reject the two amendments to the whole proposed by Citizens and the People's Party, but today we have recorded five partial amendments to the bill being tabled. I'll give you an example. In the Canary Islands, in the face of a dramatic situation between local corporations and the autonomous community, 1230 million euros in banks. We will plan that the compliance autonomous communities will also be exempted from the application of the expenditure rule because their competences in relation to public services are, if possible, greater than those of local corporations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance. The Canary Islands Coalition is not going to support these amendments entirely because neither Citizens nor the People's Party realize what the reality of this country is. The municipalities are not to make investments, the municipalities are to cover social emergency budgets, to combat gender-based violence... Moreover, in their amendments to the whole, they do not know that there are also communities that we have surplus, that we have been the ones that we have fulfilled and that the non-compliances are being prioritized. And, thanks to the surplus of the compliance municipalities and the compliance autonomous communities, we are compensating for the deficits of Catalonia, Valencia and those that have not fulfilled. First thing. Secondly, I do not know how you can be mayor of a municipality where you know that you have 500 000 euros, 300 000, 200 000 euros in the bank and explain to a neighbor that you cannot give a rental aid, that you cannot at certain times give social emergency aid and provide essential municipal services. That is, at that time, the priority of citizenship. Coalition Canaria is not going to support the amendments of the whole PP or Citizens because, moreover, they do not recognize the same circumstance in the autonomous communities. You know how it is now: you fail and you turn out to benefit; it compensates for non-compliance. The cuts, gentlemen, are not made by the municipalities or the communities, they are made to the citizens. In this regard, we are going to table an amendment to Article 12 so that we do not allow the surplus to be used in order to lower taxes, not for investments, but to use it, in the case of the autonomous communities and the municipalities, for services that most affect citizens, especially in times of crisis: social services, health care, education, combating gender-based violence and everything that affects the families of this country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. The rule of spending and the Stability Act that collects it do not need a reform that makes them more flexible, as the PP and Citizens say, but they need, as I say clearly, to be repealed. The municipalities do not need to be protected, they are mature and responsible; nor should they be held accountable for meeting the deficit, remain locked up in the 0% deficit forced by the State, while other institutions, with a greater debt margin, systematically fail and, moreover, the State reserves, I always say, the greatest deficit capacity. It is not normal for local entities that have their accounts cleared and end the annual surplus exercise to be limited by the State to the margin of use of its budget and not be able to decide freely the policies to be implemented in their municipalities. Thus, even if they have sufficient resources to do so, they are forced to stop providing essential services to citizens. This is not a consequence of this law, this situation of surplus, but rather a responsible management. They continually attack the powers and autonomy of the municipalities and it is not enough to lighten the intervention imposed on them. To defend the economic and financial power of the institutions closest to citizenship it is necessary to repeal the law, including the rule of expenditure. In addition to not accepting the intervention on the municipalities, as the Basque Autonomous Community and Nafarroa have already been doing well, we defend our ability to decide, too, on our level of indebtedness that accompanies the priorities and policies to be developed, which have led us, as many of your ladies and gentlemen often remember here, to have a better situation in that territory in many ways. They do not marry with our model of economic and social development the strict limits that they want to impose on us in their eagerness to put the control of the deficit, accompanied by austerity policies. We will therefore vote against both amendments in their entirety and continue to seek the repeal of this anti-social law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. De la Torre, curious political action his, which is defined as sensible, qualifying the Democrats as enemies and the fascists of VOX as friends. More than sensible, it's a little facsimile. We fully agree with United We can in that the combination of the rule of spending and stability objectives have been a double shirt of strength that has been socially drowning the municipalities and the autonomous communities. On the one hand, the zero deficit targets for local corporations have meant a reduction in their level of social investment, mainly due to the lack of economic resources and the inability to increase them. On the other hand, in some municipalities with greater fiscal capacity, the expenditure rule has meant that it has been impossible to allocate resources to social needs, as limiting expenditure growth to the reference rate of GDP growth has limited growth. Town halls like Barcelona, Madrid or Valencia, even having a reasonable debt and a public surplus, are forced to amortize debt that does not pose any kind of financial threat. We understand that if someone were to apply more rigorously the objectives of stability and the strict sensu spending rule would be to the Central Administration. We have repeatedly denounced the asymmetric and totally arbitrary distribution of deficit targets between autonomous communities, local corporations and the central government of the State, which, on the other hand, has been primarily responsible for systematic non-compliance with deficit targets, if they make much sense. I'm done. Local corporations urgently need adequate reform and funding, because they are the main or first institutions that meet people's needs. Your proposal is therefore entirely reasonable and our group will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u112	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, any occasion is good for Citizens - in the campaign of Andalusians - to talk about separatists, nationalists, independenceists, coups, CDR... Mr De la Torre, let us be serious; I cannot share Mr Marí's approach, but I must say that he has endeavoured to make a political and technical defence of his position. But coming here to try to dress an attempt not to reform the spending rule, because its flexibility is the absolute non-reform on the basis of Catalonia, the independenceists, the nationalists, etc., is very poor. We already know that they have a campaign in Andalusia; we already know that they are hitting on the People's Party to see who comes first to stay in the opposition, but here we are for what we are for. You are presenting an amendment in its entirety; we are not going to support either. I know that with this you will say: You see it, gentlemen; you are sold to the independenceists, etc., but the reality is one and we have to say it: listen, the rule of spending - I will speak in the next intervention of Article 15 - has been a corset for the local administration, that the only thing that has served has been to generate a surplus that has not been applied and that has served, strictly, to cover the excessive deficits of the central administration and also of the autonomous one. It has served that purpose, and that is what needs to be corrected. Even financially sustainable investments have been a small gesture, but have served no purpose. Important remnants continue to exist without the local government being able to apply it, and it is not because of its poor management capacity, I assure you. We are therefore going to table amendments to the text tabled by Podemos. There are things we do not share, we are going to amend them, but obviously we are not going to support any of your proposals today. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u114	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. Today, the PP and Citizens' Groups are bringing us an amendment to the whole with regard to the proposal for an organic law, concerning the amendment of the expenditure rule; a proposal to which this group voted in favour, adding that it was going to make the corresponding amendments at the time; a moment which, on the other hand, some are trying to slow down. Public administrations, not only local ones, have been immersed in the process of consolidating public accounts, required by the path of meeting the objectives set by the European Union in terms of public deficit and public debt, within the stability and excessive deficit pact. However, it must also be said that the measures set out in the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability have had an even more restrictive approach than that used by the European Union; an approach with the LRSAL that this group has not been and does not agree with. Thus, public administrations - all, not only local ones - have been subject not only to the limit of budgetary stability and indebtedness, but also to the limit of the expenditure rule. They are limits that run counter to the autonomy of the local and autonomous administrations and, therefore, it must be made more flexible. It must be used as a policy planning tool, applied as other countries in Europe do, and not as a sanctioner as has been done so far. The reform of the expenditure rule does not mean that budgetary stability is not maintained. Of course, we understand that debt must be kept in a sustainable margin to ensure that administrations have the right resources. In addition, they are doing so and are demonstrating it mainly by local and autonomous administrations. To the extent that administrations are achieving their respective medium-term stability objectives, the expenditure rule becomes the main budgetary constraint, as it states that annual public expenditure growth should not exceed a potential medium-term GDP growth rate, a limit that is also lower than the actual medium-term growth potential, which reduces the decision-making capacity of administrations. It is a rule that creates constrictive effects on the budgets of local entities when they - as I have already said, they have shown - are not the biggest problem in achieving budgetary stability. The problem lies in other administrations, the State and Social Security basically. When good management is done, the data of stability improves, but the rule of spending continues to oblige to budget restrictively, and it is also common sense that if they are doing well, have budgetary balance or surplus, they can invest in those policies favorable to the citizenry, according to their principle of autonomy. When we discussed this issue on 17 December last year, the intention of these two groups was not to change the expenditure rule, which we again see today, and it is also that the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party is not due to any flexibility of the expenditure rule; it is an amendment that is limited to extending the use of the surplus for the local tax bonus, which we think is insufficient and therefore we are going to vote against it. As for the Citizens' Group, in the December debate it came to vote against the flexibility of the rule because they understood that it was being abolished, and it was not true, that it was not being implemented when corporations complied with the principles of budgetary stability, understood as maintaining a position of surplus or budgetary balance; and that of financial sustainability, understood as maintaining a level of indebtedness in a percentage and maintaining an average term to be paid to suppliers. Today they bring us an amendment to the completely centralizing whole - something that we are not surprised at because they have already announced their idea of abolishing some municipalities - that they do not want the regulation to be made more flexible and what they really incorporate is an obligation to develop it by the Government so that there are no interpretive windows, as reflected in single article 1, amending article 12.1 of the Stability Act, and article 1.3, amending article 21.1, also amending the Stability Act. It also opens up the possibility that, through the general budgets of the State, the fate of the surplus may be inapplicable, taking account only of the economic situation. What you really want is to intervene in the administrations, taking into account a totally subjective circumstance, as you don't even define what an economic situation it is. What they are imposing on administrations is what to spend, how to spend, limiting their autonomy. It must be remembered once again that the surplus of administrations, especially local ones, has been and is being decisive in achieving the budgetary stability objectives committed to Europe, as they are compensating for the breaches of the central administration and social security. In short, it is a rule that you do not want to make more flexible. What you are proposing is to limit that a city council can invest in your city; moreover, they want to intervene in the administrations in response to this confrontation that you maintain with Catalonia, a concrete situation; in short, what they want is to drag all local and autonomous administrations, do it well or do it badly. Our group will therefore vote against these amendments in full and the time will come to put forward those partial amendments to the proposed law in order to make the rule more flexible and to respect the outlaw regime of Euskadi and Navarra. The aim is to make it easier for administrations to develop their public policies, taking into account their autonomy and the competences they hold. Town halls can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u116	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing two amendments to the whole of a proposal for a law aimed at allowing the municipalities, the institutions closest to the citizenry and those which must first meet the needs of their neighbours to cease to be expressed by a rule as unfair as the rule of spending. Republican Left already made it clear in the consideration of this bill and again today. Let's talk a little bit about history, because just as the Treaty of Versailles ended up provoking and seeing Nazism born, the European Stability Pact has seen it reborn. With the first, the winners of the First Great War imposed on the losers such draconian conditions that they prepared the way for revenge; with the second, the creditors imposed on the debtors such unjust and inefficient austerity that triggered the rates of unemployment, poverty, despair and xenophobia, the breeding stock suitable for populism. The champion of economic orthodoxy himself, the International Monetary Fund, recognizes that the Stability Pact and excessive austerity imposed on debtor countries has been a mistake, and the European Commission itself recognizes this when it proposes today the creation of a stability fund to finance countries at risk of recession. Both institutions keep pointing out that countries with fiscal capacity and external surplus, such as Germany and the Netherlands, should and should promote expansive compensatory measures. To accept, as agreed, that the costs of adjustment should be paid by the weakest of the weakest countries was not only unfair but also inefficient, as it triggered the public debt that it intended to decrease and further sank European domestic demand and left Europe in a situation that was extremely dependent on external demand. If all that is true at European level, also if we look at what has happened in the Spanish State, judge and part of an unjust and cowardly policy, because being strong in the face of the weak and weak in the face of the strong is the greatest exponent of cowardice, a cowardice shared with the European partners with whom it constituted the European Stability Mechanism, by which Greece was imposed measures aimed at rescuing the great European bank and, in no case, the Greek citizens; a way of curing the disease based on killing the patient, which it subsequently agreed to apply in Spain through the ignominious change of the Constitution and its Article 135. Article 135 was also the excuse to re-centralize and transfer the greatest weight of adjustment to the autonomous communities, the administrations in charge of the small welfare state, today turned into a real state of unrest, European leaders in child poverty and job insecurity. However, we do not defend meaningless spending or the accumulation of public deficits. Maintaining a good welfare state requires entry to be able to finance it. What we do advocate is that those who can and should contribute more do so and that in doing so they compensate and lighten the effort of those who can least, because Spain does not have a problem of excessive public spending, but of insufficient public revenue, no more than 7 points of GDP less than the European average; and it also has a problem of useless public spending at the service of a few: there is the AVE to accredit it, corruption and the maintenance of mastodontic ministries, despite having given the powers to the autonomous communities. Esquerra Republicana will vote no to these two amendments as a whole in order to proceed with the processing of this bill, and thus the municipalities can allocate all the necessary resources to ensure the well-being of their neighbours without the suffocation imposed by the State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. On June 1, the People's Party government was censored by this House. We were told by the spokesman for the People's Group of years of effort by the Spaniards, and from the Socialist Group we want to say that it was seven years of effort by the Spaniards who have less, seven years of inequality of opportunity and seven years of policies of cuts and dismantling of public services. And believe me when I tell you that on June 1 many young people, Spanish families and the middle and working class of this country breathed relieved when the motion of censure prospered, and the local world, our municipalities, whatever the political sign of their mayor or mayor, too. They breathed relieved because they were seven years of suffocation to the municipal world. It is surprising, just five months after leaving the Government, to listen to the spokesman for the People's Party here who proposes that this rule of spending should be aimed at lowering taxes, when they have been suffocating and punishing municipalities continuously for seven years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party, local governments have not been alien to their peculiar style of understanding politics and explaining the crisis. During these years of crisis we have experienced a campaign of contempt and defamation of the municipalities; a campaign, ladies and gentlemen, perfectly well orchestrated by the Government of the People's Party, applauded by its parliamentary group and supported by Citizens in every parliamentary vote. For years, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we had to listen to their political leaders accuse the Spanish municipalities of opacity, waste, and always of poor administration of public resources. For years, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have heard you speak of duplicity, of improper competence. Today we have heard again here about uncontrolled public spending, and we have also seen how, for many months, in commissions of study in autonomous parliaments, representatives called by the People's Party devoted themselves to talking badly about the work of the municipalities in our country. For years, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we had to hear things like that in Spain there are too many municipalities. And you, in the 28th proposal of your document for political and institutional regeneration, proposed nothing less than amending Article 140 of the Spanish Constitution to include both the criterion of sustainability and the empowerment of the State to regulate the merger of municipalities, that is, to give the central government the power to force the municipalities to merge. I suppose those will be the sensible proposals that the spokesperson for the Citizens' Group was talking about here today. For years, ladies and gentlemen on the right of this House, we have witnessed an unprecedented attack on local autonomy. This campaign of municipal contempt culminated in two attacks on the municipalities. The first was the Law of Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration, the so-called LRSAL, which involved the competition and institutional corset to the Spanish municipalities. The second was the Act on budgetary stability and the design of the expenditure rule, whose reform brings us to the debate that we are having here today, and which was an excuse for the crisis and the indebtedness of the public sector, a real yoke of central government to the municipalities, especially the compliant municipalities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u119	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u120	A law, that of budgetary stability, which was presented to us as an exercise of responsibility to comply with our international obligations through sound public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group, we are fully aware of what the word responsibility implies and are also consistent with the idea that our country is part of the European Union, because it was a socialist government that brought Spain to the heart of Europe. We share currency, market, economic space, and for that reason we are subject to Community rules on stability and growth, because the European economy is a large shared public space. We also share, as a guiding principle of economic policy, that public accounts must be sound. Therefore, accountability, compliance with the rules of the game and sound public accounts are not a concept that poses any problems for the Socialist Parliamentary Group or for the Spanish mayors. However, the design of the expenditure rule, as proposed by the previous Government, is not an exercise of responsibility, but rather penalizes it, because it burdens the compliance councils with the effort to put their surplus in the accounting balance to balance the accounts of the entire public sector and does not solve the problem of the deficit fund, because the deficit of some allows to hide the non-compliance of others, which is accounting makeup and, worse, hides where there may be problems in the management of public accounts. We want to recall from the Socialist Group the budgetary pact between the Government and the United Parliamentary Group We can, in which various measures are proposed to reverse the situation suffered by the municipalities and to provide the local Government with a system of financing that is stable and commensurate with its competences, and to allow local authorities to reflect in their 2019 budgets the financially sustainable investments that they can make and also to increase the scope of financially sustainable investments in matters of particular social impact such as children's schools, employment promotion or housing construction and rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, together with the announcement of the reversal of aspects of the law called LRSAL that nullify the local autonomy of the municipalities, work is also being done on the adequacy and reform of the rule of expenditure by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and the Ministry of Finance. We are not going to support the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in an exercise of opportunism, as it is curious that after seven years of punishment to the municipalities, it is now intended, a few months later, that this surplus be destined to lower taxes. So, gentlemen of the People's Party and gentlemen of Citizens, we believe that this is a toast to the sun of their two political parties. Neither one believes in the reform of the spending rule, as they have shown when the People's Party has ruled. Let us let the government govern, let us let the government and the representatives of the municipalities work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. - No, no, no, PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/2012 OF 27 APRIL, BUDGETARY STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY. [[File number 122/00269]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u122	We move on to the debate on the next item on the agenda, debate on the proposal for an organic law amending Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Two amendments to the entire alternative text have been tabled to this proposal. To defend his amendment, Mr Roldán Monés intervenes, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last item on the agenda. I beg your silence and attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u123	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, welcome to the House. It would have been great to have it yesterday too, because we had summoned it, because the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Francisco de la Torre, summoned it a month and ten days ago, and unfortunately we had not seen it, to explain its accounts in the Committee on Budgets. I really appreciate you being here today. [[Applauds]] Hopefully, we will have the opportunity to hear the views of the Government. I come to defend the amendment to the whole of my parliamentary group's reform of the Stability Act proposed by the Socialist Party to essentially eliminate the Senate in the midst of the budgetary process because it bothered them. They said we're going to remove the Senate and, in this way, with a little bit of luck, as we don't have a majority anywhere, we get to spend some public accounts doing some cheating. Let me make a brief review of how it has been about the successful budgetary procedure of the Socialist Party this year. First, they brought here in July a spending ceiling, a deficit target, which we laid on them. This House has said to them: No, we do not like its spending ceiling, it is a time of economic expansion, let us take advantage to save, since we are the second country with the most deficit in the European Union and we have a debt of almost one hundred percent of GDP; so let us make an effort now that we are in an expansive cycle to save. We buried the roof they brought and suddenly decided that they didn't like it and Mr. Sánchez went on television saying that the problem was that the Senate had to be stripped of its powers under the Stability Act. They were invented - this is good - a trapicheo - in an act that really demonstrates a huge trust and credibility with its principles of equality - to introduce an amendment aimed at reforming the Law on Stability - and thus to skip the majority that they do not have - in a law to train judges in gender-based violence, processed in the Committee on Justice. Logically, that filibuster trapicheo found him, we stopped him and luckily they couldn't do it either. In the end they presented a law whose amendment to the whole we are discussing today, but, as I say, they continue to fail, they have not brought a new spending ceiling back to this House, which is what section 15.3 of the Organic Stability Act tells them. And finally, they announce an agreement for the budget with Mr Iglesias, although I don't know if it can be called an agreement for the budget because to square the majority are missing Mr Torra, Mr Rufián and the PNV. But, in spite of all this, that budget does not fit anywhere and Brussels immediately comes to tell you, to tell you that the numbers do not fit, that none of the structural reforms that the country needs is addressed and that they deliberately fail to comply with European commitments. The diversion - the Economic Office of Citizens calculates - is more than 10 billion, almost a whole point of GDP. They are 4400 million inflated revenue and then, as they present an objective that is 1.8 - which, as I explained earlier, had been rejected in this House and therefore is not the current one but the current one is 1.3 - we have to add 6 billion more. Ladies and gentlemen, the numbers do not square anywhere, but they do include - of course to reach an agreement with Podemos - up to seven tax increases: the creation of the financial transaction tax, the rise in corporate tax, the digital service tax, the increase of the IRPF, the rise of the diesel, the rise of the capital tax and the rise, of course, of social contributions. But the best thing is that the various spokespersons of Podemos and PSOE come out to say - attentive - that the taxes that are going to rise do not affect the middle and working class. We look when they publish some number - because they do the numbers a little bit like this, in the eye - and we have found that the budgets actually affect more than 15 million people in Spain, Mr de Podemos and Mr de Partido Socialista. I don't know what the middle and working class is for you. Among these increases is that of the SMI of 22 %, which is accompanied by an increase in social contributions of 22 %. Therefore, to 1.7 million self-employed people you wanted to raise the fee you pay to pay 420 euros more a year. Besides that, as I say, 14 million people are taxed on diesel, each time they put gas they will have to pay 5 euros more for the deposit. On the other hand, it is the only policy that you have achieved, the rise of 22% of the SMI. Then came the AIReF, the Banco de España and also the BBVA and each of them, on average, says that the rise of the SMI is going to have exactly the opposite effect of what you said it was going to have, that is, it is going to destroy 80 000 jobs probably, instead of creating jobs. Their social policies are exactly this, populism and air to change things. The other side effect of the rise of the SMI is the rise of 22% of the contributions, and we also find the rise of the diesel. Finally, they send the budget to Brussels, the famous DBP, and some of the policies they had promised are falling, especially those that did have some interest, such as the extension of 0-3 coverage in schools or the financing of science, which suddenly disappear. They say one thing to Podemos and then go to Brussels and say the opposite. In addition, they send Brussels an incredible question, a deficit target that has not been approved in this House, gentlemen of the PSOE. The Brussels letter is immediate, the second slap that Brussels gives to the Sánchez-Iglesias budget is total, it is probably the most rigorous we have had in recent years. It literally says that these budgets put the stability and credibility of the Spanish economy at risk. Brussels says three things, which coincide exactly with what we warned a month earlier from the economic office: you do not believe the revenues you promise and the taxes you believe are not going to collect, according to Brussels, not half or 50% of what you say you are going to collect, and you also have to create them because logically they do not exist; you say you do not believe that you are going to spend what you say, you think you are going to spend a lot more than you have said in the DBP, and you say that the deviation from the short and medium-term objectives is enormous, that you are going to lead to a 2.1 deficit instead of a 1.3 deficit, which is what it touches. In short, there is nothing less progressive, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, than being irresponsible with public accounts. If you don't square the numbers and you don't make the effort when you play, then you end up paying more for debt interest because you lose confidence and you end up spending hospital and education money on higher debt interest rates. These are simply the consequences of a government that has decided to hand over the keys and to make Mr. Iglesias Minister of Finance and Plenipotentiary Economy. Those are the consequences of that. Like I said, we're at a delicate time. All the indicators say that we are at a time of deceleration and this morning the OECD and the IMF were talking about this. Growth forecasts are falling and the international environment is very delicate. We have a very serious problem in Italy, we have the Central Bank's rising interest rates, we have a problem with the international trade crisis and it is precisely now that the fundamental reforms of the economy have to be addressed. Now is when we need to talk about an educational reform, which you obviously do not have, when we need to talk about a labour reform that addresses the structural problems of this country, which you obviously do not have, and when we need to talk about the problems of spending that we have in this country, but you never intend to review the public waste. We in item 2 of the agreement with the People's Party had a spending review, an obligation to review public spending. It is not just about spending more, it is about spending better, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos. I think you can, if you can, you can do better. We were able to square the accounts, we were able to lower taxes to the middle and working class, to 3 million milleurists in this country, we were able to pay a salary supplement for half a million young people and we were able to extend paternity permits to three weeks, and you have achieved nothing. In addition, we achieved this by meeting the deficit targets and the agreements we had with Europe. It is clear - Mrs Montero, I see that you say no - to all Spaniards that the coalition of your Government, those who go down the stairs and spit out your minister, is inviolable and benefits no one. In addition, the only interest of your partners is exactly the opposite of that of all Spaniards, what happens is that you do not want to admit it because Mr Sánchez wants to continue to take walks with his little plane and continue in the government. You accept that you have an unworkable coalition and that it does not benefit all the Spaniards. We are not going to have a budget because you are unable to assume that what needs to be done is to call elections, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. With regard to the amendment - and I conclude with this - we have tabled an amendment to propose a reform of the Stability Act and to increase it to three fifths so that the veto can be lifted in this House and, therefore, there is some more flexibility. Obviously, we are against squandering the Budget Stability Act, which is what the Socialist Party proposes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I compare here on behalf of the People's Group to defend the amendment to the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. It proposes that our group return the law to its original state, that is, not alter what has worked perfectly for years and which has generated only benefits for the Spaniards, thus providing resources for control and double appearance in terms of the objectives of debt and deficit of the General Budgets of the State of each year. We're here today for a single cause, and they can dress it up as they please, trying to trick and wrap up groups, but we're only here for one reason: because they don't have a majority in the Senate, that's all. They present a proposal for an organic law with a single article because what bothers them in this whole matter is that the Spanish, in a free and democratic way, gave the majority in this House to another party that is not one of their own. That is the only motivation to bring this law to this Chamber and we cannot agree with that, and indeed, we present this amendment to the whole of us absolutely convinced that today is not only a law but respect for our institutions, respect for our General Courts, Congress and the Senate, respect for our work and for the Spaniards who voted for us to represent them. We were not voted to twist the law, to avoid subjecting to the consideration of the Chambers the matters you consider appropriate; the Senate has its constitutional functions, and very strengthened in cases like this, with a high impact on its territorial character. There are countless cases in which the Upper House has the same capacity for approval and veto as Congress. There are many examples throughout democratic history in which it has been the Senate that has had the real functions, as everyone will recall, not too long ago, under the rule 155 procedure. This is therefore not a legislative anomaly, as is the case in other cases, such as the authorisation of cooperation agreements between autonomous communities or the allocation and regulation of the Interterritorial Compensation Funds, where there is a similarity of functions. The Chamber of Territorial Representation must have the capacity to decide on matters of exceptional concern to it, as is the case here today. That is what we think of my group and that is why our amendment as a whole. [[The lady]] During these months we have heard different socialist spokesmen talking about raffling the Senate or removing the precept that popular sovereignty falls on the General Courts, Congress and the Senate. This is typical of a decomposing government, of a watering government, of a government lying in a letter to Brussels showing an IREF endorsement they did not have, of a government without credibility, and it is not that I or my group think it, that up to three international bodies told it yesterday - Brussels, the IMF and the OECD - that they dismantled all their shambles point by point. Regrettably, ladies and gentlemen, up to three agencies said so yesterday. [[Shows today's ABC cover]] These are the devices of a government that lies continually, which did so yesterday when it told Congress that the finance minister would not be able to appear in the Committee on Budgets until December 20 and we have shown them with their agenda in hand that this very afternoon, without going any further, or tomorrow nothing appears in it. They lie to the Spaniards and they do it without hiding it and, worst of all, they don't care. Today I would also like to talk here about the budgetary soundness that we are experiencing. The General Budgets Act, the most important law to be dealt with every year in this House, and the stubbornness to which they are subjecting this budgetary process, certainly do nothing but undermine the credibility of our institutions and undermine the credibility of our country. This budget plan presented by the Government to Brussels, which did not have a coma on its feet yesterday, is the result of the agreement with Podemos, which has been presented in drums and plates, with almost cinematographic walkway included by its leader. It is based on a document that his ally presented a few weeks ago and that comes to be called Budgets with people inside. I have to admit that We can be quite confused with your terms, with these words you use and that you never know what you want to say or who you want to refer to. His curious use of the word people reminds me of when they entered this House with the word caste in their mouths; everything was caste, we were all caste. Fortunately, after purchasing its leader that famous housing solution in Galapagar, the caste word of its dictionaries suddenly disappeared. [[Applauds]] Does anyone now hear the word chaste? Not at all? There's no more caste, we're already caste. Now they don't care. It happens to me the same with the use of the word people; budgets with people inside. What's going on? That these years people weren't in the budget? But how do they get that relief? Are they not the more than 2.5 million Spaniards who found work with the People's Party government? Are not people the 3.5 million people who benefited from the tax reduction of the 2018 budgets? Tell me, aren't the 625,000 families that benefited from tax support for families in the 2018 budgets people? Aren't the 2.5 million public employees with whom the civil servants' wage agreement was signed? What about the more than 160 000 agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses who were approved for salary equalization with the autonomous bodies? Are they people or not? I know they don't deserve your respect, but they're people. And the 1.5 million young people who were lowered by university fees this year? What are they? Finally, the 7 million pensioners who benefited from the increase in the minimum widow's pensions and the agreed increase. Are they people or not? [[Applauds]] How can you come here to say that with you people will begin to be within budgets. Even if you do not believe it, you had been before you arrived, there were social policies, there was a public health, which is an example throughout the world, and all that with budgets of the People's Party, although it hurts you, even if it gives you urticaria, even if you consider that people are just your people and not the Spaniards. Where you see people, we see Spaniards who raise the blind of their business every morning, who go to study, to work, who take their grandchildren to school. Where you see people, we see compatriots who make Spain the great country it is. And all this embodied in a document with the logo of the Government of Spain and that of Podemos; a document that, far from being negotiated in the General Courts, far from being brought, presented or, at least, negotiated with the groups, what they do is send the vice president of the Government in office, Pablo Iglesias, to the prison of Lledoners to negotiate it with the imprisoned politicians. When actions like this undermine our institutions make us believe that they cannot go further, we suddenly find that they can, that they can, that they can have budgets negotiated in a prison, or that they can send Brussels a letter full of lies to look for Community support for accounts that, as the European Commission has made clear yesterday, there is nowhere to take them. You prefer to negotiate in prisons than in the Chambers of Representatives democratically voted by the Spanish. Have you read the Commission's letter quietly? [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!]] They've got her here. If they have any decorum left, they should withdraw this bill and this budget document which was born addicted to origin and which is dragging the name of Spain through the Community institutions. Now will you tell me that yesterday's report from the Commission is normal, as they said weeks ago with the letter received, or not? Do you think this is normal? They all agree: no one believes in their accounts, no one believes in the decomposition of the government, no one believes in them anymore in the world. Do I teach you that again? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u126	Mr. Píriz, excuse me a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u127	That is why we are here today, only for that reason, in order to achieve, against even the European Commission's own criteria, increasing public debt and the deficit by 2019, the additional EUR 5 billion that they have been talking about in recent weeks. Don't cheat on your terms, it's not additional financing, it's additional debt. It is not money that the State generates; it is money that is borrowed and that has to be returned, that will return others because you are only specialists in spending. It is not 1.2 billion that, according to the minister, are few and take off or put on anywhere in the budget - he said -; we talk about 5 billion euros that we do not know what they want to spend on. Well, better said, they don't tell us, because knowing, we know: they want to finance the mega-election campaign of Pedro Sánchez or of President Sánchez or of whoever is running for election at the time. Spain already knows the results of these measures, it was called PlanE and assumed the final point of the possibility of Spain to assume with some margin the economic crisis that was coming ahead. The Spanish are only clear that with the socialists in power they will pay more taxes. I do not know if they are people or not the more than 17 million drivers who want to climb indiscriminately and not progressively - that sounds very progressive - the diesel tax or the Spaniards who will pay more for their mortgages or for their financial transactions or who will pay more for those products and services purchased from technological companies. The Spanish, if they are autonomous, know that the socialist government wants to raise their quotas with a monthly blast for their already adjusted accounts. They know that we are talking about budgets that will make them pay more taxes, more quotas and that will make them lose competitiveness. And all this will be with budgets agreed between socialists and populists in which the Spanish matter little and it is only those who pay the price of these wrong policies. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, withdraw this bill or support this amendment as a whole and return to common sense. Recognize that they have been wrong, nothing is wrong; acknowledge that they have been wrong, acknowledge that removing powers from the Senate, lying to the European Commission or posing a real fiscal hell to the Spaniards to please the populists is not what Spain needs at the moment, and we do not say it to them, all analysts, all international experts, all institutions, all national agencies tell us; it is unanimous that these budgets do not serve because the revenues are overvalued and the costs underestimated. The view is unanimous that our country's macro health is beginning to notice the effects of its Government, the effects of insecurity and the mistrust they transmit. As I say to you, it is not us, yesterday the IMF again lowered the growth forecast for Spain for the second time in less than fifty days and it does so when it tells them that their income and expenses are not believed. Neither the IMF, the European Commission, nor the OECD believe them and leave them without criticising. Please stop putting the Spaniards through this calvary and bring to this House budgets that meet the deficit path, lower taxes on the Spaniards and maintain the policies that Mariano Rajoy's governments have been improving year by year. They do not hide behind sunglasses, convincing hands or the impudent use of the Falcon, the economy does not wait for countries that do not fulfil their duties, that do not carry out the necessary structural reforms, that do not legislate to improve the quality of life of their citizens. Stop thinking about the upcoming elections and think about the Spaniards, their well-being, what they need and what they ask of a government like that of Spain. These budgets are the first step towards the next economic crisis in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u128	Mr. Píriz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u129	I'm concluding, President. You are specialists in taking us on those routes and you will be even worse if you manage to end the Senate's functions in this Budget Stability Act. Spain deserves a government that thinks of the Spaniards, that is not in electoral calculations and to content its members with motion of censure at the expense of Spain. Churchill said that some men change parties for the sake of their principles; others change principles for the sake of their parties. Gentlemen of the PSOE, you who have changed principles to get the government, think again of Spain above all else. The Spaniards will be better off, we'll all be better off. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz Maya. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon again. The truth is that with this last intervention I was doubting whether we were talking about the same item on the agenda, although I think we were. What we are talking about is a proposal for a law to modify what appears to be a kind of democratic anomaly or, now that it is fashionable to defend both the Constitution, an anomaly from the point of view of the Spanish Constitution. For the members of New Canarias, what is being brought here is that it is possible to approve the objectives of stability and public debt in the Congress of Deputies and that the Senate opines but does not have the capacity to block the agreement, which, on the other hand, is essential for the approval of the budgets. So, after listening to this, I became doubtful, I didn't know what we were talking about exactly. If we are talking about this, it seems elementary to us, it is absolutely irrational and it is contrary, by the way, to the constitutional spirit that the Senate has the capacity to block decisions of the Congress of Deputies, in this case on a budgetary issue, because what we are talking about is the possibility of drawing up budgets, not that they are blocked in the House that does not belong. That is why we are announcing that we are going to vote against the amendments to the whole of this House, because we believe that here we have talked about anything less than this, and we are announcing the presentation of four partial amendments with the objective that we have already announced. We understand that, since we are talking about the same law, Law 2/2012, it is necessary to allow local corporations and autonomous communities that fulfil their obligations to have the opportunity to use the tax surplus to meet the enormous needs of citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Quevedo. Ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Group is speaking and they have very little time to speak. I do not want to interrupt them, but I would like to ask you, before giving the floor to Mrs Oramas, to please remain silent. I know there are a lot of things to talk about right now when the plenary is ending, but, if possible, they do it in the quietest possible and, if not, they do it outside. Okay? I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are certainly not going to support these amendments in their entirety for two fundamental reasons. First of all, we are against that debate of saying that it is undemocratic to change the position of the Senate. I wonder: if the Socialist Party had had a majority in the Senate and the PP had been in the government, would it have considered it rational to use issues such as the one that exists at this time to prevent the presentation of a budget that is theoretically going to be better for Spanish citizens because it allows for a greater margin of deficit? Having said that, I believe that a number of things need to be reconsidered. This House represents the citizens, of course it represents them. And I would now like to recall one thing that has been said to me in the last few hours by a very important person in this House with regard to yesterday's embarrassing spectacle. He said to me: the rules of Congress were intended for Members of Parliament and Members of the Court; they were neither intended nor had the way to cut off certain shows that we have lived here, because when the rules were made they were not foreseen. I believe that when that law involving the Senate veto was made, there was no provision for a veto of a political force to prevent an issue that is good for all citizens. Another thing is that we share that those 25 billion excesses are going to be given to the non-compliant communities and those we are fulfilling do not let us spend the surplus, which we will already discuss at the time. I believe that this country needs the government to present the budget and we will see whether it is taken out or not, here will be the votes; and if it is against fiscal policy and the government budget lines, we will vote here and we will vote in the Senate. Of course, the budgets will be voted on. There is no impediment to the existence of State budgets, nor can we use a forecast that was made at a certain time to prevent the submission of a budget that we would already have the opportunity to discuss. That is why I believe that the debate to blame certain anti-democratic things on the fact that this House does not represent sovereignty is a mistake. I think that, above all, the members of the People's Party have to think that one day they will be in government, one day they will not have that majority in the Senate and one day they will want to present the budgets. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that traps should not be set to prevent the people's will from having a bearing on politics. In this regard, I think it is worth remembering what the composition of the Senate is. In our territory, the People's Party, with 35% of the votes, has 75% of the Members; we, with 25% of the votes, have 25% of the Members, and parties like the PSOE, with 20%, or Citizens, with 14%, have no Senator. Another thing, the composition of the Senate. The Valencians are five million and we have eighteen senators, twelve elected and six by autonomous designation, much more democratic than with the electoral system. Because, for example, the PP with 26% has two and the smaller party, which is Citizens, with 12%, has one. So, much more democratic autonomic designation. I insist, the Valencians with five million inhabitants, we have eighteen deputies, and an autonomous community with two and a half million inhabitants has thirty-four senators. That is, half the population has twice as many senators. I think I want to invoke the Senate to prevent it from being legislated seems to me to be a very tricky way of doing politics. Therefore - and I finish - we cannot make the Senate above Congress, because that is what the Constitution says, which states that Congress is prevalent above the Senate. The PP cheated, changed the law because he was interested; the same absolute majority that changed that law can now be applied. One last thing. I would like to be a fulfilling autonomous community, but I would also like the State to be fulfilling its obligations to my autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Bel Accensi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u137	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Píriz, spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, in Lledoners there are political prisoners, not political prisoners. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] Yeah, yeah. Councillor Forn, Councillor Rull, Councillor Turull, Councillor Romeva, Vice President Junqueras are political prisoners. Those who are political prisoners are Mr. Rat, Mr. Matas... [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] Yes, yes, those are the imprisoned politicians. Having said that, we are going to oppose these amendments in their entirety. I know that one of you will say: Man, if you supported the law! We support this law in exchange for a first transitional provision in which the deficit targets between autonomous communities and the State were distributed according to the structural deficit on 1 January 2012 and this year after year the People's Party has failed to comply. Therefore, we do not feel bound by this approach at all. In addition, as in other laws Congress can lift the veto, we understand that it can also do so here. And so does Citizens. Citizens have passed from saying that one could not rise to say that one can rise with a majority that includes Citizens. But, of course, here the majority may include Citizens or not. We therefore endorse this proposal for a law and will try to get the Bureau to put it to the vote as soon as possible after it has passed this procedure. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u139	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today again the parliamentary groups People and Citizens bring us amendments to the proposal of organic law reform of Organic Law 2/2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. These are amendments that do not correspond to the majority will of this House expressed when the debate took place for the consideration of this reform to return to the drafting of the Stability Act of 2007 and, therefore, to put forward the same procedure as exists for any other law and not an abnormal or exceptional procedure that grants the Senate a veto capacity that cannot be lifted by Congress and that can lead, as is the case, to a parliamentary blockade that prevents approval of a new deficit path and that little or nothing benefits economic stability and neither political stability. The People's and Citizens' parliamentary groups with their decisions show us that there is no will to amend this law, because once again the Congressional Bureau with the favourable votes of these two groups have re-blocked this bill to amend the Stability Act and lift the Senate veto to the path of deficit, as the deadline for submitting partial amendments to it has again been extended. Similarly, the amendments to the whole that we are debating today, as I said, again show that there is no will on the part of these two groups to lift this veto. On the one hand, the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group maintains the current wording of Article 15.6 and, therefore, the Senate veto adopted in 2012 and adds an additional provision which further limits the increase in appropriations or the decrease in revenue from the current budget until the budget year following the entry into force of this amendment, also limiting the capacity for a budgetary change. On the other hand, the amendment of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group lifts the Senate's veto to the deficit path, but proposes that, if this veto is vetoed, it can be re-voted in Congress; that yes, in that double round raises a qualified majority, a three-fifth majority in Congress - i.e., two hundred and ten votes against the simple majority - so that today, as the positions faced, it would be impossible to achieve a new deficit path in Congress. My group will, of course, vote against these amendments as a whole, because we believe that the exceptionality that exists with regard to the rules relating to the budget ceiling and the objectives of the deficit must be eliminated, so that the veto of the Senate is avoided and these rules governed also by the general regime that is applied in the Courts to pass the laws, where the Senate would act as a second reading chamber. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u141	Thank you, President. Mr Píriz, indeed, there are political prisoners in Lledoners and there are political prisoners in Puig de les Basses and in Mas d'Enric. They should be ashamed that in this supposed democracy and in this supposed rule of law, in 21st-century Spain, there are political prisoners and prisoners. I should embarrass them. [[Applauds]] We are going to vote against the amendments as a whole. We referred to the debate we had when we voted on the reform of the Budget Stability Act last September. We understand that, if the Senate veto were not removed, such approval would be impeded by the absolute majority of the People's Parliamentary Group due to the reform of Article 15(6) approved by the PP Government in 2012. We told them before and during the debate, either the Budget Stability Act was being reformed or it made no sense not only to vote in favour, but also to start negotiations to try to reach agreement on the spending ceiling. With regard to what we have had in the previous debate, there is an urgent need for an in-depth debate on the financing of public administrations, the expenditure limit imposed on them and the viability of public services, which many of them are giving to citizens in an almost heroic way because of under-financing and the nullity of making expansive budgets. During the last years of the PP government, deficit targets have been unfairly distributed to the autonomous communities, and particularly to Catalonia, communities that have had to make huge efforts to meet deficit targets. This is the case, for example, of the Generalitat, which has scrupulously complied with the spending ceiling imposed. We also recall - and we will do so whenever necessary - that the municipalities have played a fundamental role during the hard years of crisis. The latter have endured more than anyone the imposition of extreme austerity policies, which have led not only to a reduction in expenditure, but also to an increase in tax revenues and, in particular, in property tax, with various measures taken by the PP Government. We always say that the local government is the closest to the citizenry, and that is why the municipalities are the first to respond to neighbours in sensitive areas such as housing, energy poverty or the promotion of occupation. We must therefore try to reach agreements so that those who have fulfilled their duties can invest their surplus in investments or social policies for which the citizens are the beneficiaries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we discussed two amendments in their entirety to a bill that was debated a week ago and which sought to recompose the meaning of the parliamentary structure of this country recognized in the Constitution and that was violated when the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act was passed in 2012. It is not only that this situation would not have occurred if you, who now seem to be misled, with you, who at that time also seemed to be misled with them, had not adopted article 135 of the Constitution. [[Addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] The main problem was that the adoption of that article would open the door to the possibility of developing a regulatory framework, which it was doing essentially by drastically restricting the possibility for Governments to use fiscal policy to make policy. That is to say, with that approval and subsequent regulatory development, you, the majority parties, what you were doing was an exercise of anti-politics, of restricting the capacity of the Government and of the representatives of popular sovereignty, who are us and ourselves, to be able to make policy, to represent the preferences and interests of our representatives according to the constitutional mandate that we received and not according to the interests or rules that some European bureaucrat makes, and in this case I refer specifically to Mr Moscovici, when he marks the rules that a Parliament must follow thousands of kilometres away and without taking into account the political, economic and social consequences of his decision, and above all without taking into account the sovereign decision of the peoples. That was perfectly understood by Mr Montoro, who not only endorsed that idea, but also gave it a touch more of a Machiavellian nature, taking advantage of the traditional overrepresentation that the People's Party has had in the Senate House to legally shield its orthodox view of public finances. And not only that, but, at the same time, that measure distorted the mandate of Article 135, which mandates the Government to develop and implement the budget initiative. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate cannot have any veto power over the provisions of this House, because the Constitution, except in cases assessed, assigns to this House a pre-eminence over the Senate and, above all, because the Senate is not an authentic House of Territorial Representation in its present dimension. You, you and you pretend to make a spurious use of an institution, especially in the case of the People's Party, because the Electoral Law, at the moment, favors you, but at the moment when the Electoral Law does not favor you in this way, what can begin to happen in Andalusia on December 2nd, you are also surrounding Congress to ask for a change in the Electoral Law. [[Addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Addressing the Citizen Parliamentary Group]] [[Applauds]] As for Citizens and Mr Roldán, I would have liked to know how in their amendment they try to reconcile their rejection of the Senate as an institution - in 2015, Albert Rivera spoke of the need to eliminate the Senate - and how they continue to maintain in their amendment the veto capacity, which, once that veto comes back here, they try to resolve with reinforced majorities that, in the budgetary case, are in no way contemplated. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from these comings and goings, what is important here is not the amendments as a whole, but it goes much further. The economic situation in our country is beginning to suffer from the torturing use of institutions in the light of partisan interests. We were warned by the OECD and the International Monetary Fund yesterday - by the way, instead of having taken a cover from the ABC, which seems to sponsor it, what should have been taken out is the cover of the reports - which basically come to say that the economic situation is slowing down. That is precisely why I will explain to you that it is more necessary than ever to use fiscal policy for countercyclical purposes. In case you do not understand, I will explain it to you with the words that Mr Marí Bosó said in the previous inquiry. This is pure Keynesianism. Spain cannot afford to delay the adoption of budgets. Minister, we demand that you bring the budgets to debate with the proposals that are agreed with us. Above all - I conclude, Madam President - what needs to be questioned at the moment is the opinion and the prescriptions of the European Commission, which has become the main cause of the expansion of fascism and the extreme right in Europe. I am going to put to you a case that is not too far away and from which we must draw clear conclusions. Italy has been complying with fiscal discipline for seven years, having primary surpluses, such as the Brussels brand, and in those seven years it has seen its share of public debt increase over GDP by 20 points. That essentially means... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u145	... that expansive austerity does not work; it does not work in the economic and political spheres, because, in the face of the frustrated needs and preferences of the peoples that are not collected by the Governments, it encourages the expansion of fascism. I'm done. Let us reflect, ladies and gentlemen. If we prevent budgets, we are preventing us from facing the next recession, the cycle change, with more instruments. If we prevent budgets, we are giving citizens the justification for mistrusting politics and politicians. I'm pretty sure no one in this House is for that work. Right? Well, that's it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this House approved, last September, the consideration of a proposal for a law submitted by the Socialist Group, reforming Organic Law 2/2012 on Budgetary Stability, with regard to its Article 15.6, to eliminate the veto power of the Senate that grants it the said law before decisions of the Congress of Deputies. This is a legal anomaly in our legislative practice and goes against what is stipulated in our Constitution; in particular, in its article 90.2, which gives precedence, in the adoption of legislative rules, to the Lower House in front of the Upper House, except in those matters specifically regulated for the Senate. It seeks to restore a competition snatched from Congress by the People's Party, in an abusive use of the absolute majority it held in 2012 for the spurious purposes of political control of the legitimate decisions of this House. Today we are discussing two amendments to the whole tabled by the Citizens' Group and the People's Parliamentary Group. With regard to the amendment of the People's Group, the People's Group is arrogating itself as a defender of the autonomous communities and of the role of the territorial chamber of the Senate; a party of centralizing spirit and practices that limit the autonomy capacity of the autonomous communities and local entities, as we have seen in the previous debate on the spending rule. It is a party that refuses a reform of the Constitution that, among other issues, gives the Senate that role of territorial chamber that it does not now play; a party obliterated by the loss of power and with absolute lack of sense of what is a state opposition. In 2016, in view of the government's failure to comply with the stability path agreed with Brussels and the threat of a fine of EUR 2 billion to Spain, an amendment to the Stability Act had to be made. The Socialist Group was in the defence of the general interest and the opposition supported this change. And we did so because we understood that it was necessary to facilitate the adoption of a new path of stability so that the autonomous communities could make their budgets and that education, health, dependence and the welfare state were not affected once again. Some of you will recall the words of the spokesman for the People's Party, your ex-companion, Mrs Asian González, Mr Píriz, when I said, I said quotes: 'It would be pointless to fight in Europe for greater flexibility and then, legally, in Spain, to have a legal system that would prevent us from being used by the administrations to finance the essential public services they have attributed'. I close quotes. And it continued, and I open again quotes: 'Here we are talking about whether or not the autonomous communities are financed with an additional EUR 4 billion, funding that Europe has allowed us to make'. I close quotes. Those words, those arguments, were valid when the Socialist Government presented in this House a new path of stability, which gave greater spending capacity to improve the lives of the people of this country for an amount of EUR 6 billion. They already know what was the response of the People's Party; no. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, facts. Some of us in the opposition and in the Government think and work for the general interest. Others are going to Brussels to speak badly of the accounts and of the Government of Spain. For their part, the amendment of Citizens, which was poorly presented - a chapuza, which they would say - what is de facto recognizing is the anomaly of the veto granted by the Law on Stability to the Senate, and proposes its elimination, as proposed by the Socialist Group. But it does not apply to the usual procedure set out in the Constitution, and calls for a strengthened three-fifth majority of the Congress to approve the objectives of stability and public debt referred by the Government. In the view of the Socialist Group, there is no reason to justify this request, beyond an excess of parliamentary control over the action of the Socialist Government, which they at no time demonstrated when the People's Party was governing and when systematically, together with them, it failed to meet the deficit objectives of the State and of Social Security or historical figures were reached in relative terms of public debt, which is also their responsibility. The left comes to the government and it is the apocalypse, because we hear some trembling speeches from the right-wing spokesmen. They warn us that all the plagues of Egypt will fall on the Spanish; for the moment, only the PP has been abducted by the plague of darkness passing to the opposition. Given the evolution of budgetary implementation, it can be said that the management of the socialist government of public accounts is good, no doubt better than that of the PP government. This is probably the first year of the last seven in which the forecast of tax revenues is met. Let's see if the only time he's gonna hit Montoro is when he's not here. Public spending is growing moderately and investment is being implemented. The forecasts of the European Commission and the OECD say that Spain will maintain a robust growth, above the EU average, of 2.6% for this year and 2.2% for next year, just one tenth less than the government's forecast. Both bodies expect a significant decrease in the deficit in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, public debt is going to be reduced, that debt that Montoro said in 2012 was going to be 60 % by 2020 and left it close to 100 %. Yes, the economy is at a stage of the moderate growth cycle, with solidity and confidence, with increases in investment in equipment and intermediate consumption that give strength to the variables of our growth, subject logically to the uncertainties surrounding economic activity at the international level, but I can assure you that the government of Pedro Sánchez is not responsible for the negative growth in the last quarter of GDP in Germany. That, I conclude, President, I can also assure you that the Socialist Government is going to bring into this Parliament social policies to recover rights and freedoms and the cuts in the welfare state applied by the People's Party Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Lasarte. At the end of the debate on the last item on the agenda, we voted in three minutes. [[The President took the Chair.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u149	Before the votes, we will make two institutional statements. Institutional declaration of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Madam First Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u150	Thank you, President. Institutional declaration of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. 25 November marks the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1999 to bring together the voices of the international community in the face of violence affecting women around the world. The Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women of the United Nations General Assembly defined it as "any violent act based on the membership of women, which has or may result in physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women, as well as threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or private life". The Congress of Deputies, for this reason, wishes to recall in a very special way all the victims killed by this cause and their families. Since we have official data, there are 972 murdered women and 27 murdered minors. This year there are 44 women killed by gender-based violence and 35 orphans who leave. Fighting this violence, which feeds on Machist values and beliefs, is one of the greatest challenges in our country. Today, we also remind all women victims of all forms of violence against them by being women. And we commit ourselves to fighting all violence. The Congress of Deputies wants to keep in mind all the women who are now suffering this violence. We wish to make a strong statement that for them we are working tirelessly within the framework of the historic State Pact on Gender Violence with the aim of continuing to promote all agreed measures. We will not stop until we eradicate this violence that violates the equality, security, dignity, integrity and life of the women of our country. It is essential to continue to insist on the awareness of the whole of society and on strengthening the victims, because, as the executive director of UN Women has said, 'a culture that changes from questioning the credibility of the victims to holding the perpetrators accountable, is possible' and only from unity and active commitment can and must achieve it. With this institutional declaration, the Congress of Deputies wishes to express its firm commitment to violence against women, its deep rejection of aggressors and their murderers and its support for all victims. We call for the responsibility and commitment of all public authorities, administrations, organizations and citizens not to stop until all women in our country enjoy a safe and free life from any manifestation of macho violence. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen on the stand]] - INSTITUTIONAL DECLARATION FOR MANIFESTING THE SUPPORT OF THE CANDIDATION OF THE RITUAL TABLES OF THE TOUCH OF THE TAMBOR AND THE BOMBO TO UNESCO'S INMATERIAL CULTURAL HERITAGE OF HUMANITY FOR THE YEAR 2018. [[File number 140/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u151	Institutional declaration to express the support of the candidacy of the drums rituals of the touch of the drum and the drum to Intangible Cultural Heritage of the Humanity of UNESCO for the year 2018. The second secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u152	With your permission, President. The drum and the drum have become a tradition and symbol that identifies an important number of peoples of Spanish geography. In 1983, the drum became an emblem of friendship and harmony between peoples with the same tradition. Thus, on September 18 of that year, a group of residents of the city of Mula, headed by Don Diego Cervantes Díaz, decided to bring together all the peoples of Spain in a common and specific connection in their traditions and customs, the drum touch, organized under the title 'First Drum Show', what is now known as National Days of Exaltation of the Drum and the Bombo, 'National Drum', which have been held successively every year in a different village. These days were held in Baena in 1992, 1999 and 2016. In 2017 they were held in Alcañiz and so on we could go specifying each and every one of the villages belonging to where they have been held. In the current year the 'Tamborada Nacional' has been held last days 9, 10 and 11 March 2018 in the city of Mula, in its XXXIII edition of the National Days, coordinated by the Consorcio Nacional de los Pueblos del Tambor and the Bombo de España, whose president from the beginning to the present is the Baenense Don Antonio Mesa Sevillano. It belongs to the 22 localities of the Autonomous Communities of the Region of Murcia, Andalusia, Aragon, Castile-La Mancha and the Valencian Community. Tens of thousands of drummers, drums and drums from Agramón, Alagón, Albalate del Arzobispo, Alcañiz, Alcora, Alcora, Alcorisa, Alzira, Andorra de Teruel, Baena, Calanda, Fuentes de Ebro, Hellín, Hijar, Jumilla, La Puebla de Hijar, Moratalla, Mula, Samper de Calanda, Teruel, Tobarra, Urrea de Gaén and Valderrobres will highlight the cultural richness of the drum and the drum in our country, being a differential fact that forms part of our history, identity, feelings and customs. For this reason, the Congress of Deputies expresses its support for the National Consortium of the peoples of the drum and the drum in Spain, for being the ritual drums of the drum and the drum the only candidacy that is presented by Spain to the UNESCO for the cultural and material heritage of humanity for 2018 and for the cultural richness that possesses the drum and the drum touch in many peoples of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u153	We begin the voting. First of all, a motion following urgent questioning by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Minister of Justice to explain the actions undertaken as a minister, aimed at conditioning and influencing the work and analysis, based on technical criteria, of judicial officials in the performance of their duties to ensure the legality in force and the general interest in the field of their responsibilities within the Ministry of Justice. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 167 against, 162 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u154	It's approved. - the Confederal Group of the European United States of America may, in common, on the mechanisms for the implementation of the opinions and general measures adopted by the Committee ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND CULTURAL RIGHTS OF THE UNITED NATIONS. [[File number 173/000124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u155	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the mechanisms for the implementation of the opinions and precautionary measures established by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 170 against, 2 abstentions, 168.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u156	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u157	We proceed to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, Royal Decree-Law 17/2018 of 8 November, amending the consolidated text of the Law on Property Transfers and Documented Legal Acts, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/1993 of 24 September. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 204 plus 1 telematics vote, 205; abstentions, 136 plus 1 telematics vote, 137.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u158	It's validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 337 plus 1 telematics vote, 338; abstentions, 3 plus 1 telematics vote, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u159	It will therefore be dealt with by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 18/2018, OF 8 NOVEMBER, ON EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF CARRETERS. [[File number 130/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u160	We now turn to Royal Decree-Law 18/2018, of 8 November, on urgent measures in the field of roads. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 193 plus 2 telematics votes, 195; against 135; abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u161	It's validated. We now proceed to vote on the request for the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill for urgent procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 337; against, 3 plus 2 telematics votes, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u162	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u163	We now turn to committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on imprudence in driving motor vehicles or mopeds and sanctioning the abandonment of the accident site. Firstly, we voted on the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. We are going to vote in bloc on the amendments tabled by that group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 34 against, 302 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u164	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 72 against, 261 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u165	It's rejected. Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 79 against, 175 abstentions, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u166	It's rejected. Amendment 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 79 against, 175 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u167	It's rejected. Amendment 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 79 against, 176 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u168	It's rejected. We shall vote on the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 269 against, 69 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u169	It was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u170	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the whole proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on imprudence in driving motor vehicles or mopeds and sanctioning the abandonment of the place of the accident, as being organic. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this vote is organic. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 273 plus 1 telematics vote, 274; 64 plus 1 telematics vote, 65; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u171	Accordingly, the proposal for an organic law was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u172	Let us now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the debates on all legislative initiatives. We begin with the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed law regulating external university academic practices, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 143; 173 plus 2 telematics votes, 175; abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u173	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u174	We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for an organic law on the modification of the criteria for applying the expenditure rule, tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 167; against, 172 plus 2 telematics votes, 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u175	It's rejected. We continue with the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed organic law on the modification of the criteria for applying the expenditure rule, which has been tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 166; against, 173 plus 2 telematics votes, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u176	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/2012 OF 27 APRIL, BUDGETARY STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY. [[File number 122/00269]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u177	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed Organic Law on Reform of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. We voted on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 165; against, 173 plus 2 telematics votes, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u178	It's rejected. We now turn to the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed Organic Law on Reform of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, presented by the Parliamentary Group Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 32; against, 305 plus 2 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-11-22-CD181122.u179	It's rejected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was three and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
