ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Before we begin the plenary session, we shall proceed to keep a minute of silence in memory of the child Gabriel Cruz. In these moments of great sadness and mourning, the Congress of Deputies wants to convey its affection and solidarity to Gabriel's family and colleagues and show our revulsion towards any act of violence against children and against any human being. We also want to acknowledge the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses, as well as, of course, the solidarity of so many people who from the beginning mobilized and participated in the search. [[Pause]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 26, which relates to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the first item on the agenda, concerning the debate on the whole of the proposal for the reform of Organic Law 8/1981 of 30 December 1981 on the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and of the President and Councillors of the Government. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Cantabria Parliament, as well as its President and the senior lawyer of your House, who are part of the delegation that will defend the proposal and to whom I warmly welcome them all. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor first of all Mr Víctor Casal Guillén.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u4	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, far from the usual discrepancies that we maintain and will maintain in the Cantabria Parliament, having been able to agree on a subject of such importance as the one before us, it leaves the door open to talk about politics again in positive terms. This is an important step towards that end. The suppression of the elections comes to be the fulfillment of a commitment that some of the parties represented in that House carried out in our electoral programmes. Others did not carry it, but they have also understood the need to carry out a procedure that citizenship considered necessary, perhaps because of a misperception of what it entails, but to which it was necessary to give an answer, and we will give it, forceful and unanimous, renouncing a condition that made us different from the ordinary of citizenship; different and not privileged, but being aware that the important thing is verbal time: it did, in the past. I believe that it is clear that the figure of the hanging in the politicians is an archaic figure and condemned to extinction, a figure of exceptionality within the constitutional framework that, according to its article 14, establishes that all Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination on the basis of any other cause or personal condition, but it corrects itself in its article 71.3 and in article 102.1, establishing the special characteristics for deputies, senators, the Presidency of the Government and ministers. That, and not the other thing, is the suffocation of politicians: the condition that states that public representatives can be tried only by the higher courts and not by those of first instance. Although a lot of demagogy has been done, and is done, with the subject of suffocation, primarily because it is not properly explained what it means, we must start from the basis that suffocation is not a privilege but a condition, originally established as a guarantee of democracy and carries with it a certain inviolability and immunity. Originally, the aim was for the public office to be granted the status of trial if it had to be tried, it could be subject to a collegial decision such as that of the higher courts, which was supposed to be more expert than an individual, and assuming that the High Court was more alien to the political pressures that could be exerted to distort its decision. This made sense when the rule of law began its course, when the separation of powers was not yet a reality but an aspiration that began to be forged and where interference remained the usual tonic, but no longer today. With the rule of law fully established, the separation of powers established and the judiciary enjoying independence, the stalemate is a mere vestige of the past, meaningless and condemned to disappearance. However, this situation, which can only be tried by the higher courts, has a double edge and does not always benefit the higher courts. As you know, by being directly requested by the High Court of Justice or the Supreme Court, as the case may be, the defendants lose the second instance, leaving them with no option to appeal the judgment. If the sentence were an acquittal, they would gain by not having recourse and not being able to be reviewed; if it were a conviction, all the doors would have been closed to them to continue their defense. In both cases it would be in breach of the 1966 UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as Spain has been warned up to three times by the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Therefore, we should do pedagogy and make people understand that strangulation is not a privilege. A privilege will never harm the wearer. Other issues are the inviolability or parliamentary immunity that, although they come from the same historical sources and epochs as the stumbling block and are contained in what is considered the parliamentary forum, obviously still play a guaranteed role in the foundation of democracy. Both are still necessary for the defence of the collective rights that we parliamentarians exercise and must therefore be maintained. To conclude - I do not think it is a question of using all the time available, once all the political groups in the Cantabria Parliament agree on the issue and I assume that my colleagues will also want to intervene - it is extremely valuable to have obtained the agreement by all the political groups to carry forward this reform of the status of autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, because with a gesture like this we are having today we are getting to be judicially the same as those we represent, and in that equality rests the principle of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u5	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr Pedro José Hernando García.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today, we present for your consideration the proposed law on the reform of Organic Law 8/1981, which approves the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria with the aim of eliminating the procedural regime envisaged for members of Parliament and also for members of the Government and its President. Almost ten years ago, on 15 April 1998, in this House, another regionalist deputy, Rafael de la Sierra, claimed that Cantabria was an autonomous community because the General Courts had recognized the conditions and characteristics to become one of them, and he placed special emphasis, among some murmurs of the parliamentary assistants, on the existence of a justified historical tradition of community consciousness, identity and difference from all that we make up the constitutional Cantabria today. That is also the basis of our proposal today. Cantabres and cantabres today exercise our power of self-government to decide that in our autonomous community no one is more than anyone, so that the equality of article 14 and the right of article 24.2 to the ordinary judge predetermined by law be real and effective, so that membership of an institution such as Parliament or Government does not determine a different treatment, which would have its justification in other historical times, but not in the twenty-first century. Our statute regulates in articles 11 and 20 a system of parliamentary and governmental immunity in which the procedural forum is a basic part. It must be made clear that we are not talking about the possibility of eliminating inviolability or immunity from detention or the rights and duties of parliamentarians, but only ending the procedural process. This position is fully justified because the suffocation presents important differences with the rest of the prerogatives, among others, because inviolability and immunity go back its historical view to the Magna Carta de Juan sans Tierra of 1214 and all the Spanish constitutions, while the suffocation appears for the first time in the Canovist Constitution of 1876 and in the subsequent regulation of the Law of 9 February 1912. That is to say, it is not a consubstantial prerogative for Members of Parliament, but it is an addition of the 19th century that has virtually no example in comparative law. What we are asking here today by the representatives of the Cantabria Parliament is that we do not want to be outlawed, that we want the same judges as the rest of the cantabria judges to judge us, and that expression of the popular will in our Parliament should not be altered by the General Courts, which represent us all and must assume the political autonomy of Cantabria in the management of its interests, always within the constitutional framework. If in Spain there are thousands of bulldozers, let it be faced with its maintenance or elimination for judges, police or military for whom it has competence; that each autonomous community can decide positively whether or not it considers that its politicians should be bulldozers, and even, ladies and gentlemen, that you can analyze the constitutional provision of article 71, which protects them beyond the cantabria deputies with the figure of the supplication. But if all this is not discussed, if no steps are taken to make progress in the changes called for by society, this inaction must not prevent the cantabres from deciding, as Parliament has unanimously decided, that procedural immunity should be abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, our statute was just like the Magna Charter, following a situation that was experienced in 1978 that has nothing to do with what is currently being lived. It is necessary to face the reforms, it is necessary to assume that there are institutions that need to be reviewed, institutions such as the Senate, institutions such as the lack of direct democracy and participation in our Constitution, also the territorial model, and this requires a modification that will have to be based on responsibility, work and consensus, such as the agreement that we have obtained from all groups in the Cantabria Parliament to push forward this reform. Because that has been the genesis of this proposal for a law: agreement between all groups, delays, differences, consensus and, in the end, a unanimous vote. And everything from statutory respect to the will of these General Courts and that of the cantabres; legal and institutional respect that Cantabria is not receiving reciprocally from the Government of Spain, since Mr Rajoy refuses to receive the president of our autonomous community. Loyalty and law enforcement since Cantabria and the commitment we expect this House to express in today's vote. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the statute, like the rest of the laws in our rule of law, is approved to be complied with, and that is what we are asking you today from Cantabria to support this reform so that we can continue to implement our highest standard of self-government. I urge all of you to do so as well, because our statute incorporates a second additional provision in its fourth point, which contains an unprecedented clause in other statutes, recognizes the obligation to ensure that transfers and economic transfers guarantee the financing of the Marqués de Valdecilla hospital. I hope that, when the next general budget comes to this House, all of you will support the Government's inclusion in the budget of 140 million to deal with law enforcement in this matter. I think, if not, he'd be breaking the law. That is why I am asking you for the vote today and I am also asking you for that vote committed to the General Budgets of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u7	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Francisco Javier Rodríguez Argueso.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Cantabria Parliament and the Secretary-General of our Parliament for having accompanied us and organized this expedition so well that we have made to the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much, President and Secretary. Many thanks also to this Congress, President of the Congress, for the diligence in the processing of this proposal that the Parliament of Cantabria has brought to this Congress. It was accepted on 15 December and is now being considered; it has only been three months. We never thought it would be processed so diligently and, therefore, our sincere thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomy Statute of Cantabria was adopted in 1981 in an organic law of 30 December. This Statute of Autonomy of Cantabria has been reformed three times. It has twice been reformed by agreements of the national political forces with a majority representation at the level of the Spanish State. It was amended in 1991, when the regional elections were incorporated on the fourth Sunday of May, and in 1994, when new powers were incorporated into the Cantabria Statute. But the great reform of our statute, the important one, took place in 1998. In a few days' time it's going to be twenty years since we defended her in this very Congress. It was a very important, very profound reform; a reform that talked about competences, institutions; a reform in which it was considered until the denomination of our community as a historical community within the Spanish Constitution; a reform that counted on the full consensus of Cantabria society, with all its representatives and with the five political groups that we were then in the so-called Regional Assembly, today - thanks to this statute - Cantabria Parliament. A great consensus was reached, which has served to ensure that for twenty years no political force or social and economic force would call for a change, immediately, in this status of autonomy. However, twenty years later - the big difference is that we are talking about the transition from the 20th to the 21st century in these twenty years - we are bringing here today another reform put forward by the Cantabria Parliament unanimously; made also by five political groups, and we have agreed, as some other spokesman has said before. We do not bring reform here, nor do we ask you to support reform for more competences; we do not bring reform here to change the structure of our autonomous community; we do not bring reform to remove any competition from any other autonomous community or to be more or less than anyone else. We are bringing a reform called for by Spanish society, because it has changed from the 20th to the 21st century, and almost all political parties were taking part in our electoral program to change and make the reform, mainly to remove the outbursts, but there was also talk of immunity and inviolability. We have reached an agreement to abolish the outbursts and we have reached that agreement because we believe it is important. The political groups in Cantabria agreed that it was necessary to remove the outbursts for politicians just to start the legislature. In March last year we reached that agreement and signed this motion for a resolution but, on request, in addition to our parliamentary group, he moved to present it until September, because our parliamentary group claims that this should be a national reform, in which they agreed most or, if possible, all the national political parties, to do it in our Spanish State, because we believe that society is asking for it. Besides, if we carry it on the programs, it'll be to fulfill it. In September we presented this reform because in Cantabria we want this reform of our statute to take place in this legislature. We believe that it should happen because we all agree and, in addition, we carried it in the electoral programmes. I therefore hope that no one will object to the handling of this proposal, which we are bringing today, and I hope and hope that the reform of the Autonomous Statute of Cantabria will be approved in this legislature. There are many people - thanks to the fact that many people have misinformed Spanish society, it must be recognized -, there are many legal, non-legal, political, non-political, social and non-social experts who say that strangulations are a privilege. I do not agree with that, it is a prerogative that we have in our statutes, in our Spanish Constitution and in the structure of the Spanish State approved by the Spanish Constitution. That is why there are certain hindrances. I do not agree, but today, primarily politicians, we have to try to transfer all possible confidence to Spanish society, and what may raise the slightest doubt must be reformed. Why? For a simple reason, if we consider that they are not privileges, why are we going to keep them. And if they're privileges, we can't keep them. I therefore appeal to national political forces with seriousness and responsibility. They come to an agreement, because it would be important to reach an agreement in everything for the whole Spanish State. It's no use to me that political parties in some autonomous communities bring bylaws, that some want to take out the outbursts and some don't, that some want to make commissions and others... You, the national representatives of the parties that we have representation at the national level, must agree because if we carry it in the electoral programmes we must comply with it. I am convinced that political parties and politicians - since the political class and politicians have suffered a great deal of contempt in recent years - want the best judges, we don't care where they are. We must convey the image to Spanish society that we have very good judges at first instance, in higher courts, in the Supreme Court and in all legal bodies. Today, therefore, this reform that the Cantabria Parliament is unanimously proposing is not against anyone, it is only going to try to take one more step, which we all have to take, in order to gain a little more confidence from the citizens of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u9	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Commissioners of the Cantabria Parliament, welcome to the Congress of Deputies on behalf of the Democratic Party, PDeCAT. I would like to transfer three ideas, to you, of course, to the House and to the debate and reflection that arises from the approach of your initiative. First idea. If this is the will of the Cantabria Parliament, obviously we will respect it and we will also respect the processing as it is the will of the Cantabria Parliament. We would already like to see the will of the parliaments, more so when reforms have been agreed that have subsequently been submitted to a referendum of the citizens, always respected, to be said in passing. Second consideration. As my parliamentary age, which is not the biological age, is already a little mature in this house, I will allow myself to transfer my view of respect to you. Stuffings are not a privilege, but a guarantee for parliamentarianism and serve precisely to ensure that other powers of the State do not interfere in the composition of the House, of the majority and of minorities. They said this is a recent institution because it's from the 19th century. It is that the Parliamentarianism of Spain is of the nineteenth century and the former was to plead with the incumbent ruler, not elected or controlled by the parliaments. I already know that the trending topic of the moment is to lift the stumbling blocks because it is a privilege, but you yourself in your speeches have said in part that it was not a privilege, but then you have stated that you have to rise because it is a privilege. It is not in favour of parliamentarians, because parliamentarians pass, but parliaments remain. You have said that no one should be more than anyone and I agree, but it cannot be that other powers alter the composition of parliaments and, therefore, sometimes, exceptionally, there are votes on the appropriateness of judgments, on their content. Just a year ago a Member of this House, for the second time in forty years of democracy, was stripped of his status as a Member. He was a member of my group, Don Francesc Homs. In the past, there was a debate on its suffocation, which brought together ninety-one votes in this Chamber against the lifting of the suffocation, no doubt a minority, but relevant in order to hold a political opportunity debate on the trial faced by an elected Member of this House. To conclude, I will make two considerations. The first speaker, from the Socialist Group, has said that the democratic maturity of the moment, the separation of powers, makes it no longer necessary to squabble. Well, the democratic maturity of the moment, the separation of powers of the moment, leads a judge of the Supreme Court to interpret the regulations of the Parliament of Catalonia to invent a deputy's deputy vote in that Parliament when this is not contemplated in it. The democratic maturity of the moment - as it is not the question of substance, I am ending this because the Madam President is going to call me to the question - leads a Supreme Court order to interpret that a person in pre-trial detention and without a court ruling cannot appear before a Chamber being elected, with all his rights, to defend his political agenda when he has the support of the absolute majority of that House. This is to be said in passing, because today we have heard a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights that one day - neither tomorrow nor the day after tomorrow - some interpretations of that rule of law that you described as so mature will be subject to double scrutiny of what is happening these days. My last reflection has to do with the fact that they have said that the political class has to be uprooted - they have spoken of the political class and I do not like that expression. I believe that there are good and bad politicians, that they do their job well and that they don't do it well - that we had to lift up the stumbling blocks for the contempt of politicians. Let's see if we have a little more pride in defending the honorableness of politics and politicians in general. Please do not side with those who generalize and practice anti-politics and in the name of anti-politics are giving in, giving in, giving in to the worthy exercise of democratic debate, dialogue and agreement. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u11	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Alvarez Palleiro has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, President of the Cantabria Parliament, Secretary-General, Members of the Cantabria Parliament, welcome. It's a pleasure to welcome you here. Good afternoon, everyone. There are issues that are capital, fundamental and unnegotiable in our essence, in our way of being and in our DNA as a political force and that, moreover, were the personal motivations that pushed me to take the step towards active politics, leaving aside my professional activity. One of these fundamental reasons - among others - is the legislative reforms that we can push to modify and correct totally anachronistic situations, such as those of the elections, which resulted in privileges for politicians and which society in the majority neither accepts nor shares nor understands; legislative reforms that allow for progress in democratic quality, transparency and a separation of formal and real powers that strengthen judicial independence and improve citizens' perception of our justice system. Ours is a liberal, progressive, reformist, renewing and regenerating party, a party that is committed to finding new solutions to the new challenges posed by the twenty-first century. The inability of the old bipartisanism, which with different majorities was able to modify situations of sleepless privileges and did not, forces us to take the initiative. It comforts us that the conservatives - who in this type of regeneration matter, as my grandmother would say, move less than the teeth above - and that the socialists - who are neither expected nor expected - have joined this proposal to eradicate privileges of centuries past. There is something paradoxical that someone should explain - the conservatives of the PP or the socialists - why they support this measure of eliminating the strangulations in Cantabria while at the same time they are working to block this measure here in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] It seems that for the Socialists and the people of Cantabria this is a good reform - it is - but for their colleagues in Congress it seems not. There are really paradoxical cases, such as that of the People's Party, which in the Congress of Deputies does not want to hear about the limitation of mandates and yet in Andalusia supports this initiative of regeneration with enthusiasm and I would even say that with algarabía. Today it is a joy for me that Cantabria is news to lead and lead a reform and not because it is, as usual, the protagonist of negative news; for example, because it is one of the two autonomous communities in which last year unemployment increased, because it is the national leaders in job insecurity, because it is the community that takes the longest to pay its suppliers, because it has a debt that already reaches 3000 million euros or because it has dropped 6 points in the classification of autonomy by per capita income, that is, by quality of life. Far from the characters and beyond the instrumentalization that is being made of my region, Cantabria is a land of the future in which we are awaiting people with leadership capacity who can get us out of these moving sands in which we sink the more the government of Miguel Ángel Revilla moves. Today we are here thanks to an initiative by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in Cantabria, which brought to plenary a non-legislative proposal on this matter registered in October 2015, which urged the Government of Cantabria to initiate this procedure of amendment of the statute in order to eliminate the outbursts and which was unanimously adopted by all parliamentary groups in Cantabria. I would like to recall the work and effort of my colleagues in Cantabria, led by Rubén Gómez, and I would also like you to know all the cantabrias that, thanks to this effort, from now on the Members of the Cantabria Parliament, as well as their President and the Councillors of the Cantabria Government, will be equal before the law than the rest of the citizens of Cantabria. If any politician has to be held accountable before the courts, he will do so like any other citizen, going to the judge of first instance who touches him in luck and not through his hanging before the High Court of Justice in Cantabria where one of his judges gets his place through the proposals of the different political parties. Although we believe mostly in the independence of judges, these kinds of situations must be eliminated in order to fulfill in this way the maximum of Caesar's woman: to be and to be. I remember when, in March 2011, there was a vacancy in the High Court of Justice of Cantabria, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, with Miguel Ángel Revilla at the head, proposed in the run-up to that vacancy which, at that time, was his adviser to Justice and secretary general of the PRC in Santander. That is to say, Mr.Revilla wanted his Justice Adviser, from one day to the next, to move from being a member of his Government and his party to being a judge of the Cantabria High Court of Justice, which is the body competent to judge those politicians in Cantabria who had to come to account before the law. Obviously, in the face of the protests of all the associations of judges and prosecutors, Mr.Revilla, who has been in politics for more than thirty-five years and giving lessons of regeneration in the various forums he attends, had to withdraw that candidacy, which, being perfectly legal, was absolutely immoral. This must be avoided. We have to keep moving. We have introduced the omnibus law for the depoliticization of justice and the fight against corruption, where we bet on the modification of the election of the judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Attorney General of the State; where we bet on the protection of officials who put us on the trail of possible cases of corruption, elimination of jails, limitation of mandates, ending pardons for political corruption, etc. It is here, in these profound reforms, where we find that the old bipartisanism, which has been happening in power and which feels very comfortable in this expired alternation, far beyond the stage of being in very distant ideological positions - in front of the PSOE, the PP; in front of the PP, the PSOE -, when these kinds of regeneration matters come they dance very sticky the tango Cambalache, by Enrique Santos Discépolo, 'cachete con cachete e mujilla con mujilla', without any complex and without any power. [[Applauds]] And as a button shows. Just three weeks ago we presented in this House the law of reform of the organic status of the prosecutor's office in order to break with the umbilical cord that throughout democracy, with greater or lesser intensity, has kept together the various prosecutors general of the state with the corresponding governments, and the figure of what the prosecutor general of the state should be with the prosecutor general of the ruling party, and do you know who voted against this reform in order to give more independence to the prosecutor's office? The People's Party and the Socialist Party, handcuffed. I conclude, Madam President, by reiterating our satisfaction with this consensus reached in the Parliament of Cantabria and promoted by Citizens for the elimination of the procedural forum and that, from the relevant procedures, Members of Parliament, as well as the President and Councillors of the Government of Cantabria, comply with the law exactly as the rest of the citizens, and that this initiative, which I hope will be supported by the majority in this House, is irremediably extended to the rest of the autonomous parliaments and also to the Senate and to this Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u12	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Alonso Clusa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u13	Thank you, President. Representatives and parliamentarians of Cantabria, ladies and gentlemen, today in Congress we speak of Cantabria, and we do so by debating our fundamental law as a result of a social demand, something that has always been essential for us: putting institutions at the service of citizens, in this case of cantabras and cantabras. All the parties in the Cantabria Parliament have agreed to listen to what today is a popular cry. What at other times offered some security in the performance of political activity, is now seen as a privilege to be eliminated, because it moves us away from the principle of equality before the law that we must abide by all individuals, regardless of whether we are representatives or represented. We know that time changes our political, economic and social conditions and, consequently, the laws must be updated to the rhythm of the needs of the historical moment, to the rhythm of the needs and opinion of the majority of people. The people of Cantabria have been heard in their claim to the asymmetry of the asymmetries involved - very well - and this must be just the first step towards the essential and profound changes demanded by the citizens of Cantabria. And I say the first step, because what we really deserve is the best status of autonomy. We are tired of being a chess piece in the departure of an arrogant central government that ignores us, lies to us, discriminates against us and systematically damages us; a central government that denies us until the funding of our hospitals, and there is no right. [[Applauds]] The socio-economic situation in Cantabria is unsustainable, and it is not just about Cantabria being one of the points where the crisis has been tougher, but it is a structural issue, for two clear reasons: firstly, because of the permanent contempt of the State - as I have already mentioned - but also because of autonomous governments which repeatedly limit themselves to pointing out the problem without daring to provide the solution. All this is leading us to an economic and demographic abyss for which the current status of autonomy is already an obsolete tool. Cantabria is not reduced to anchovies and bribes, ladies and gentlemen. The greatness of Cantabria is shaped by its people, the mountaineers, who all their lives have worked to raise our land and who now see their children and grandchildren march because Cantabria seems to close their doors. [[Applauds]] What was the economic engine that assumed the Besaya and Campoo regions? It's time to sit down and get them back to energize our land, it's time to sit down and guarantee the future of our young people. A reform of the status of autonomy - of course it is! - is urgently needed, a profound reform according to the twenty-first century, to our current reality; a reform in which, first and foremost, women have a central role, because we are half the population of Cantabria, whose participation, approach, look and needs were never taken into account in the realization of our fundamental law. A new statute of autonomy is urgently needed that becomes a backbone of the economic, social and political future of our land, a new statute that shields and guarantees our social rights, our self-government and our identity. Let us give the citizens of Cantabria the recognition of their dignity through a statute that includes the right to health, to education, to housing, to assistance in dependence, to the fight against macho violence, to the fight against gender inequality and to the eradication of poverty. Democracy is also part of the DNA of our people, its traditional forms of political organization and structure. In Cantabria we all know what the open council is, an ancestral formula through which the matters that concerned everyone were resolved. That is, transparency and participation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, could you explain to us why you destroyed it in 2011? It is necessary to have a statute - yes - that allows the municipalities to be citizens' and that prevents them from being hunted like the ones that Mr Íñigo de la Serna perpetrated in Santander, who now sits on the blue bench as Minister of Development. It is a pity that you are not joining us in this debate today. The Santanderinas do not forget Amparo Pérez, Mr De la Serna. Leaders like you - wherever you are - never again. [[Applauds]] We need a statute, in short, that puts on the front line the protection, conservation and dissemination of our cultural, natural and historical heritage, a statute that comes from listening to our grandparents and thinking about our daughters. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to listen to the popular cry, let us provide the cantabrian institutions with the tools of public policy that ensure full social and economic development and that no one ever disrespects us again, because Cantabria is not theirs, gentlemen of the Government, Cantabria is theirs. [[Applauds]] I would like to finish as he did in this very House, nothing less than eighty-four years ago, the deputy Bruno Alonso, who was elected by my own constituency, who said: I have just left a record in the Diario de Sesiones of this defense which, more than legitimate, was obliged in a representative of the people like me, even to go out in the wake of the betrayal of the high cultural interest of Spain, which implies the silence of those men who today represent that mountain province and who therefore had the duty to carry out this defense that I have modestly carried out at these moments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u14	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Cortés Lastra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u15	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to welcome all the cantabres and cantabres that accompany us here today, also Members of the Cantabria Parliament and its President, Lola Gorostiaga. These days we have attended historic mobilizations in defense of women's rights in our country, and it is, if possible, a greater privilege to have your presence in this Congress today, because you, Lola, have been a reference in defense of women's rights for years, and because you have lived and live from various political responsibilities always promoting, with your example and daily work, equal rights between men and women as a priority. [[applause]] So thank you very much, Lola; thank you very much, really. [[Applauds]] It is an honor for me, as a cantabrian, to have the privilege of defending the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Cantabria. I was born in a historical community, as the statute states; a land where the sea and mountains imprint character on its people; a land where nature and gastronomy are mixed with the creative need of Gerardo Diego, Ataulfo Argenta, Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo, Eladio Laredo, among others, or Concha Espina, when he tells us: I need a world that does not exist, the world that I dream of. Because from Cantabria we seek both to know the origin of all our ancestors through the most important rock art in the world and the curiosity to discover new horizons to understand the Earth, as did the cantabre Juan de la Cosa, author of the first world map. Today, in a small step further in our history, we bring to this House the consensus, the agreement of all the parties represented in the Cantabria Parliament to reform the statute. We are being transferred a pact based on a social demand for democratic regeneration, an adaptation of politics to the times we live in, the elimination of the suffocation of the deputies of the Parliament of Cantabria, the president and the councillors of the Government. I understand that this initiative can only have one response from this Congress, there is only respect and support for this initiative. Any other vote other than that exercised by all the cantabrians in the Cantabrian Parliament would be a contradiction that could hardly be explained to the citizens of my land. It is true that we are a small community - and the fellow Members here know this - but the courage and contributions of an entire people like Cantabria to Spain deserve the respect of all, even those who promise and then fail to fulfil. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is true that today is an important day for Cantabria, but I assure you that if you kept your word you could be even more so, because citizens, in addition to needing democratic regeneration, also need the Spanish Government to keep their promises, and that, to date, you are not doing so. The Spanish Government owes Cantabria €90 million. Such is the degree of non-compliance, that there has been no alternative but to appeal to the National Court to claim their debt. I'm going to tell you what your debt is to us, because it's a big debt: 44 million euros for the works of the Marqués University Hospital in Valdecilla, 44 million euros that you owe us. And we have tabled amendments and amendments to try to get you to pay that debt you have with us, with the health of Cantabria, which is with all the citizens of Cantabria. In 2017 we had a commitment to co-finance the Unit Law with you at 50%: 50% Cantabria, 50% the state. Do you know how much they paid? Do you know how much they pay for dependency, what percentage they're paying? 20%, you pay 20%. 80%, you know who pays it? It is paid by the Autonomous Community of Cantabria. You know why? Because the Autonomous Community of Cantabria does not want to leave its dependents as you have in our community to be pulled. [[Applauds]] And look, in education...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u16	Your Honor, I think I'm quite flexible, but I'm calling all of your ladies and gentlemen to get to the point. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u17	In education they pledged to contribute 17 million to the development of Lomce. Do you know how much they paid? 158 000 euros. And so I can be all afternoon, setting examples. At this point, the ill-treatment of the Rajoy government in Cantabria has come and forced this Member to pose unimaginable questions. Is it possible to know what the citizens of Cantabria have done to them so that they will drown us economically with the breach of their promises? Take advantage of this debate, take advantage of it for something that is important, to reflect and to change course, because with a community like ours, which has always been loyal to this country and which tries by all means to progress, you do what you do is put stones on the road. So we tell Mr. Rajoy to keep, to keep his word, to keep his promise, not to deceive Cantabria anymore.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u18	Your Honor, I'm calling the question for the second time and you know what it's about if I call you a third.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u19	Because we're not gonna stop until we get what's ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u20	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome, as my colleagues have done, the President of the Cantabria Parliament and all the cantabria that accompany us today in Congress, as well as the representatives of the Cantabria Parliament. We are debating, as some have done, not the reform of the Cantabria Statute, which is aimed at the elimination of strangulations. And I would like to start by saying that the People's Party is in favour of limiting and reducing the cutbacks; I am saying this from now on and so we have no doubt. We are in favour of all Spaniards being equal before the law and we are in favour of eliminating any issue that can be understood or used as a false door, shortcut or mockery by any public representative. Because today's People's Party, the People's Party that made me a member when I was young and part of it, to which so many millions and millions of Spaniards have joined during these years, is a People's Party that works hand-in-hand with all the citizens, looks at their faces and does not need the rigging to do its job. We know that the figure of the suffocation has been effective, and this has been demonstrated in our entire democratic history; we know that at no time, as has been said by many who have preceded me in the use of the word, has it meant real privileges or a covert escape from justice. But we have to admit, and I think we have to do it by all the representatives of all the political groups, that we have done something wrong so that today we can be credible about the fact that strangling is a privilege in the eyes of the citizens. Something we have done wrong and something we have done very well some who have devoted all their time and effort to making demagogy on this subject. The People's Party is not going to oppose the elimination of suffocation; I also want to save time and effort for those who want to continue to invest in demagogy. Don't waste time, that our time costs the Spaniards a lot of effort and they have the right to use it on more productive issues. It would really seem to me more productive to use the time in this rostrum to talk about the current situation of my autonomous community, because while in Spain more than 500,000 jobs are created, last year Cantabria destroyed 3300. But I am going to use my time in this debate to say that the People's Party has not landed here and now, it has not given us a south wind, of those that blow so much in my autonomous community, in the debate of the outbursts; we already carried it on the electoral programme and, subsequently, in the investiture agreement with Citizens. But, ladies and gentlemen, it would surely have been more productive to devote my first intervention in this House to telling you that while our country is leading the job creation in Europe today, our autonomous community, Cantabria, is leading unemployment in Spain and certainly to talk about a reality that worries the more than 580,000 cantabres, which is that while we see the strength of our country, because Spain for four consecutive years, forty-eight months, has had a positive economic growth, in not one of the forty-eight months Cantabria has been able to achieve that level of growth. Therefore, believe me when I say that we Members of the Group of the European People's Party are concerned about other things, not the issue of squabbles. We are concerned - it has been said here - about the incompetence of the regional government to justify the money that the People's Party gave to Valdecilla, because it must be said loud and clear that if it were for those who are ruling today in Cantabria, Valdecilla would remain, as it was so many years, a ghost building full of spider webs. It has been the People's Party that has committed itself and the People's Party that has financed and will end up fully financing Valdecilla. [[Applauds]] I will not use the words of President Revilla, who said that he touched our lottery, but, it is true, we are very proud to have the best minister of Fomento, who is making the investments that had been stuck for so many decades in Cantabria. [[Applauds]] But we have not come here to talk about our book; we leave it to others, such as the media president of Cantabria, the popular Revilla, even more popular than those we call ourselves popular, but it is popular for talking about himself on television, for talking about his books or his youth skirmishes, or for that magic board with which he goes to the TV sets with which he says he would fix Spain, but which seems to be that for Cantabria does not work because after two legislatures as president of the community, he has recently had to cease the general agent so that the accounts do not take away the colors.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u22	Your Honor, I also remind you that you have to go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u23	Yeah, I'm focused. The question is: With this panorama, with the day-to-day life of the cantabres, do you think that the main concern we have today is whether the strangulations are maintained or suppressed at this time? We are not against and will not oppose this reform of the Cantabria Statute, but what we say, and the People's Group says, is that we must address the debate without demagogy and without opportunism, with seriousness, serenity and with the aim of responding to this growing demand of citizens. But we must do it in a unitary way. It cannot be that the reform of the settlement system becomes seventeen reforms, that each autonomous community has a different regime. It cannot be that, now that we are talking about democratic regeneration, we are paradoxically creating inequalities between representatives of popular sovereignty, depending on whether we exercise responsibility in one or another autonomous community. The Popular Group wants for all of Spain what it wants for Cantabria, because the true spirit of this reform is that all Spaniards be equal before the law, without privileges, without two speeds and without giving arguments to those who in the future want to make new independent experiments. It is our commitment and our responsibility. It is being said - and I am finalizing - that we have given ourselves spaces for consensus and that is what the People's Parliamentary Group is asking, that we all work together, that in the face of a citizen demand we reach a great national pact to continue to maintain the equal rights and duties of all public representatives. We believe that it has to be a great national pact to determine the future of the stalemate system in our country. Today we are not going to oppose this reform of the Cantabria Statute. We respect, as it cannot otherwise be, the total self-government of the autonomous communities, but we aspire to something better for our country; we aspire to a great consensus on the outbursts throughout the national territory, which is diverse socially and culturally but which must be unique when we talk about rights and freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u24	Thank you very much. Many thanks to the delegation of the Parliament of Cantabria. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u25	We continue with the item on the agenda regarding the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, which amends the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, in order to decriminalize the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today he brought a very cool speech, full of insulting statements, offensives to the impunity of people like Andrea Fabra, to the unemployed; of people like Pablo Casado, to those killed in ravines; of people like Núñez Feijóo and Miguel Ángel Rodríguez, towards independence; of people like Isabel San Sebastián and Hermann Tertsch, towards, in short, decency; of the cave, towards Anna Gabriel; and, above all, from the Madrid Municipal Police to Carmena, Pastor, Churches and yourself. The truth is, the speech promised. I was also trying to convince them that the offensive, that the insults to a country, for example, are to pay EUR 1350 million to Florentino Pérez; that the insults, that the offenses to a country are to lose EUR 40 billion in a bank bailout; and that the insults, that the offenses to a country are to have thieves and gangsters in parliament, when asked for explanations, say: It is the market, friend. I consider - and also the place from which I come - that the offense, the insult to a homeland is all that. I also wanted to show, I also wanted to try to convince them that the Spanish legal order, that Spanish jurisprudence in many cases does not do justice, but it does macarismo, and all this, I repeat, in order to try to convince above all the PSOE - sincerely and with all respect, I expect nothing from the PP and Citizens - to support this initiative. But everything changed this morning. I'll get you something better. I bring you a judgment from Strasbourg. He's from here. [[The show to the House]] What you see here is not the shield of a football team, but the shield of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights. And I understand that even the PP and Citizens consider this court to be something worthy of respect; in any case, it is not a separatist, indoctrinated, Bolivarian court. I remember. In 2007, in Girona, Stern Taulats and Roura Capellera burned photos; they burned pictures of the kings and were sentenced to fifteen months in prison. Then, as it was not the times that are now, they were sentenced to a fine of 2700 euros. The Constitutional Court denied them amparo and charged them with a hate crime, which at that time was not as fashionable as it was now but was also used. Well, eleven years later, eleven years later!, this very morning, the Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg ruled as follows: This court, unanimously and under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, decides to reject the objections of the Spanish Government regarding the burning of pictures of monarchs and condemns - it condemns the Spanish Government - to return the fine of 2700 euros to the two young people sentenced for insulting the Crown. These offences are included, I repeat, in the symbolic expression of the rejection and political criticism of any monarchy and of any public office, and they have nothing to do with the connection to hate speech and violence made by the Spanish Constitutional Court. I repeat, I do not say so, the Strasbourg judgment says so. The Criminal Code imposed on young applicants constitutes an unjustified interference with their freedom of expression, protected by article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The facts were not - I repeat, they were not - a personal attack on the king of Spain intended to despise or vilify the institution, but they represent a symbolic expression more of legitimate political criticism. It is not hatred, it is freedom of expression, and it is reflected in its Constitution. [[Applauds]] As a result, the Spanish justice system violated - I do not say so, the judgment says - article 10 of the convention by penalizing the plaintiffs, and Spain is condemned to return the 2700 euros of fine to the plaintiffs and to compensate them with 9,000. The sentence is binding. On 13 March 2018. European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Gentlemen of the PSOE, what are you going to do, now what are you going to do? I'm asking you to step out of block 155. Today we hope, not us, but practically all of this country, that they will come a little closer from this Congress to Spain to Strasbourg and take it away from Ankara. We wait for the best PSOE, we wait for the worthy PSOE that gave so many glory afternoons to this Congress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u27	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Despite the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left of Catalonia, Spain is no exception in the world when it comes to having an order that punishes insults and insults to its flags, signs and other national emblems, signs and symbols. It is pertinent to mention that in Greece, Italy, Portugal, Germany and France, among other members of the European Union, aggrieved, offensive and disrespectful behaviour towards their highest authorities and their symbols are also penalised and punished. Some of these countries are republics traditionally protecting the right to freedom of expression. In Spain, our Constitution also broadly protects freedom of expression and provides very advanced guarantees for its exercise, as does the extensive legislative framework developed in these nearly forty years of democratic movement. The aim is to comply with and enforce the protection measures set out in the Criminal Code in relation to the conduct that commits malicious acts against the highest institutions of our structure, symbols and emblems, including autonomy. No cave. It is opportune to point out the well-known case of an autonomous community, that of Catalonia, its own, Mr Rufián, who resorted to justice four years ago for insulting the lady, among other crimes, after the serious assault on the Blankerna Cultural Centre. In short, they are conducts that, by going against a protected legal good, can only be qualified and interpreted by the courts of justice, which have the last word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor, also by the Joint Group, to Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Telegraphically, I will try to say a few reasons to oppose your initiative. Look, Your Honor, Republican Left, we do not believe that freedom of expression is a limitless right. Nor do we believe that punishing excesses in the exercise of freedom of expression is undemocratic, as little will be equally democratic. Nor do we share in making punishment depend not on offensive conduct, but on who the offenders and the offenders are. We, in any case, believe that it is better to promote a pedagogy of respect and courtesy and not an apologia of insult and offense, as we believe that expanding the margins of our own tolerance with that which harms us generates more disorder and more chaos. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the king, the flag or the homeland, which is people, are concepts and institutions that represent values that deserve our respect and, for that very reason, represent us all and we can all feel insulted when insulted to them. That is why we believe that they should be specially defended. I might add that it is true that one's freedom ends where that of others begins and that it is the State that must guarantee this principle. In any case, we do not believe that freedom of expression includes an alleged right to insult as absolute and irresponsible as it is criminally punishable. We believe that democracy is respect and not insult. I have four children, Your Honor, and I tell you that you don't have to insult, that you don't have to offend, and that things happen when you do what you don't have to do. For a principle of coherence, it seems to me that the least I have to do is apply the same thing I say when I raise my children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u32	Get out of the way. Today the Court of Strasbourg has said that it is not a crime to burn pictures of the king. In 2011, the same court, the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, gave Arnaldo Otegi the right and denounced Spain's irregular protection of the Crown. It shouldn't be a crime, and I hope someday it's real, to be able to say something like that the Spaniards have thrown the last of the Bourbons, not as a king, but as a thief, because that's what Ramón María del Valle-Inclán said in 1931 and it wasn't a crime. In any case, if we want to talk about insults and the Crown, we would have to talk about the insult that the pensioners assume of the Emeritus King's pension; or we would have to talk about what the Dinastic Succession is for women who have gone out to the streets to claim equality when they are denied the Dinastic Succession of the Bourbons; or we would have to talk about the insult that the Royal House costs in tens of millions of euros against all the people who live in unemployment and precariousness; or we would have to talk about the insult that it entails for the people of Catalonia to see a civilian-dressed king making a military speech; or we would have to talk about the insult that it entails for the relatives of the disappeared in the Franchise to see how they have to endure an institution inherited from Francoism; or we would have to talk about how it is an insult to criminalize the Basques and Basques that I put up and sing the Eusko Gudaria received in 1981 to the Spanish monarchy. In any case, as they are not going to dissolve and hand over the money, at least for the moment, I wish it could be real what a Valencian group that is called The root: 'Today is festive / you have to check out the queen / who is still alive and laughing / You have to break the board. In exile kings do not win the game.'
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u33	Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Since today we are talking about insults to the king, they will allow me to make my references a little, politically, incorrect. In 1999, La Polla Records criticized the Crown's privileges by saying: 'Ask the people more faith in the country / fuck you, I live well'. In 1994, Els Pets criticized that the Crown was directly designated by a dictator, saying: 'Reclaim / to whom I was placed on soc...' / 'Jo want to be king / be per colons cap de l'Estat...' But we can go even further back, 1979, Al Tall recovered El Cant del Maulets, which said: '...the fish in the water / and the masters in the clot / and if he doesn't take it / Our Lord, / we will cut the cua /a Felipe de Borbó'. This was insulting? It was politically incorrect, yes, but attacking freedom of expression is censorship and seems to be more censorship in 2018 than in the 1980s and 1990s. For you the Crown is untouchable, as are the streets with names of Franco leaders or the far right and their aggressions. His legacy yesterday wants to apply it today: censorship. But they're out of chollo, and the Human Rights Court says burning a photo of the king is freedom of expression; it won't be much different to sing a song against the Crown. So, in the words of the also censored Valtónyc: They are respectful of the Constitution, instead human rights... [[Words withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, for the dignity of the House and respect for your ladies and gentlemen, I shall ask that the last expression be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] For the same group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u36	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to insist on today's judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, I simply want to say that it goes into the substance of the matter and says, no more or less, that the burning of a portrait can never be assimilated to hatred, nor can it be considered criminally. This kind of thing wouldn't have to go criminally. I therefore believe that this is an outdated debate; it is now outdated. I suppose from now on these kinds of judgments will already be with a multicopyist in the Court of Strasbourg, so that I would encourage them not to be ridiculous and to accept reality as it is. I don't have much time. In the previous session we talked about the nobility and the privileges it should not have. The highest of the nobles, who is the king, has a privilege; here they denied that these privileges existed. It doesn't make sense. While the rulings of the courts say that the elected ones have to endure many times, practically, defamations because it goes with the charge, it turns out that the only non-elected office, the only non-elected one!, is the one that is protected and protected by law. Gentlemen, you have neither feet nor head. Therefore, I repeat, the debate is out of date. We already know what Europe says, we already know what common sense says, and we therefore urge you to put an end to this absurd anachronism of hatred of the Crown in our Penal Code. Many thanks, President, for your patience and thanks, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u37	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u38	Thank you very much, President. We are brought to debate the decriminalization of two conducts contained in the Criminal Code, in articles 493 and 491, relating to slanders and insults to the Crown in the exercise of its functions or on the occasion of these and beyond, and in 543 concerning offenses and insults to the symbols of Spain and its autonomous communities. Both conducts, when criminally reprimanded, have provoked strong social debates, as by their very nature they are often linked to manifestations of a political nature and, therefore, connected to freedom of expression and ideology. Faced with those who hold this opinion are those who postulate that these behaviors confront the limits of that same freedom of expression. The same House has addressed the issue on the initiative, as now, of Esquerra, in the years 2008 and 2016, and on both occasions it was rejected. We are now debating it again, because the debate is still alive, in the heat of the prosecutions and convictions that continue to occur because of the controversial application of these criminal types. I have to remember that the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party has already stood in favour of those initiatives by Esquerra and will now maintain the same position. In our view, generally speaking, these conducts should be protected by freedom of expression, without this implying that we share such attitudes, because it is possible to express themselves radically without having to reach extremes such as those sometimes reached, since, as the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has pointed out, many of these statements are clearly offensive, inappropriate, unjust, repugnant and alien to reality, but restrictions on freedom of expression must be applied in a spirit of tolerance, especially when it comes to criticism in political matters. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are now dealing with focuses on the prevalence that we want to give to some of the legal assets we face. On the one hand, insulting or slandering the Crown or the symbols of Spain and its autonomous communities with offenses or outrages does not protect the king as an individual or person with an honor and feelings, but rather seeks to protect the entire society, represented in the Head of State as the highest institution, and the same can be said of the symbols of the State and of the autonomous communities. In contrast to this protected legal good which is the collective through the Head of State or the symbols of the State, we find the freedom to express, often grossly, political opinions of rejection which, except in exceptional circumstances, such as the dissemination of hate speech or the efficient incitement to violence, cannot be repressed in a manner compatible with the freedom of expression guaranteed in article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Apart from these alleged repression is not necessary in a democratic society, as the European Court of Human Rights has already ruled in 2011 against Spain and has done today, as the spokesman for the Republican Left reminded us. This is the position of the PNV, it is more important to protect freedom of expression than the need to protect the dignity of the State or its autonomous communities. That was also our position when, in 2007, by remembering some event, portraits of the lehendakari Ibarretxe and Mr. Carod Rovira were burned by ultra-right groups on the occasion of the Spanish National Festival on 12 October of that year. This is also the position of international organizations to which we belong and of countries in our political and cultural environment. Thus, the position of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which states that the institutions should not be overprotected by criminal law, is added to the case law already mentioned in Spain of the European Court of Human Rights, and if such protection exists, it should be applied in a very restrictive manner, so as to avoid at all costs limiting the critical freedom of citizens. For its part, the UN Human Rights Committee has repeatedly expressed concern about the existence of crimes that particularly protect disrespect for flags and symbols or defamation of the head of State. I'm finishing up, Madam President. The Basque Parliamentary Group believes that citizens should not be deprived of the possibility of making a criticism, however fierce and ruthless, of the symbols and the highest institution of the constitutional system, because we believe that these conducts should be decriminalized in the way that was done in France in 2013 and since 1968 it has been done in the United States of America, following a ruling by its Supreme Court, which ruled that burning the American flag constituted a manifestation of freedom of expression. We, the Basque Nationalist Party, think and practice the same thing, that this debate is not about monarchy or symbols, but about democracy, and we believe that democracy should prevail in the event of conflict over the dignity of the institutions and of the State itself, as I repeat again - offensive, improper, unjust, opprobious and alienated from reality that sometimes appear to us to be statements against those institutions and symbols. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u39	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Members. Here today we could have a legal debate on the judgment of the Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg, whether the penalties laid down in the Criminal Code are the most appropriate or not, on the limits to freedom of expression, on the comparative law of the German, Italian and Portuguese order or even on how the French order has adapted to the principles and resolutions of the European Union courts, but it is that you do not raise a legal debate here, what you propose here is to legislate for your own benefit. They want to decriminalize actions that you star, like burning Spanish constitutions and flags. [[shows some photographs]] That's what Republican Left and the Republican Left youth do in their actions. [[Applauds]] It is you, gentlemen of the Republican Left, who burn and trample the symbols of the Spanish nation, who burn and trample the symbols of Spain, because you deeply hate everything Spanish, and want to decriminalize your own actions. If they could, they would erase all the Spanish in Catalonia, but they have a problem, a serious problem, gentlemen of the Republican Left. They have the problem that most Catalans also feel Spanish and that they will not be able to erase or make disappear. [[Applauds]] I'm sorry, gentlemen of the Republican Left, but you have a serious problem. Those symbols that you burn and trample, and not only the symbols, but also the Constitution itself - support that the Spanish Constitution is burned on TV3, on your public television, that which you handle with your partners of Convergence at your will, sectarianically -, represent not only a nation, they represent not only citizens, they also represent values, constitutional values, the values of Spanish democracy, the social state, freedom, justice, equality, popular sovereignty, the values that we Spanish people gave us in the 1978 Constitution and that you, defending and carrying out actions like this - burning of Spanish constitutions and flags - show contempt. You, with these acts, show hatred for Spain and contempt for constitutional values and try to humiliate those who feel Spanish. You can think, feel and feel what you want, come here and express it in this rostrum, it would be missing more, and you can do it because our democracy, Spanish democracy, protects you. Our democracy, the democracy that is based on the Spanish Constitution, the democracy that represents those symbols that you despise protects - as it could not otherwise be - your freedom to express your ideas here. But the expression of his hatred of Spain, the expression of his contempt for constitutional values and his attempt to humiliate the Spaniards has limits and these limits are marked by the law. Therefore, gentlemen of the Republican Left of Catalonia, do not count on us to disarm Spanish democracy in front of those who want to trample it. We're not going to collaborate with you on that. We will never be next to those who hate, despise and humiliate Spain. You burn Spanish flags in Catalonia. We respect and defend the symbols of all and use them as a tool of union and harmony. We are very different from you, gentlemen of the Republican Left of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u41	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr. Exposito Prieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u42	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We must recognize the meaning of the opportunity for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left to have brought this bill to debate a few hours from the forceful judgment - we must also recognise it - on the case of Stern Taulats and Roura Capellera against Spain handed down this morning by the European Court of Human Rights. This ruling not only casts serious doubts on those aspects of Spanish legislation which together impose a kind of state of emergency against freedom of expression, but it is also a judgment that leaves in ridicule the abusive interpretation that the National Court makes of this legislation of exceptionality when it applies as a gag on one of the indispensable pillars of any democracy, such as the right that citizens have to express themselves critically not only in freedom, but also with facilities and guarantees. The sentence - I imagine we have all read it - states that the sentences applied by the National Court constitute - and I quote - a violation of article 10 concerning freedom of expression of the European Convention on Human Rights. The act allegedly committed - the sentence continues - was part of a political critique rather than personnel of the institution of the monarchy in general and, in particular, of the Kingdom of Spain as a nation. Furthermore, the act in question does not constitute incitement to hatred or violence. Of course, we support the deletion of articles 490.3 and 491 of the Criminal Code in order to decriminalize the crime of insulting the Crown and, of course, we agree that the country, the nation and democratic institutions do not defend themselves by opening the door for criminalization by applying article 543 of the same Code to those who criticize the political order. It even seems to us that the debate has to take more flight, because this discussion on the limits of freedom of expression is right at the crossroads over the future of our democracy. I have hung in my office a visual poem by a historical Catalan poet named Joan Brossa. This is it. [[Shows an image in which you can see the suit of the six of swords and a part of a stamp of Posts]] It's almost like a joke. It's a letter with a stamp. The card is a deck card. The reader's imagination transforms the card of the deck into a postcard, because the card carries a stamp. The person who showed me this engraving in the warehouses of this house drew my attention to the joke, but it went unnoticed an important detail of this image, which is this. [[Shows an extension of the previous image]] The seal is the head of dictator Francisco Franco cut by the swords of the letter and the beheaded seal says: Spain. To divert attention with such a simple joke that it seems childish had a vital function when one was in full dictatorship, served to keep the poet's head safe. Today, in this debate, we are asking ourselves the following question. Could this engraving of Joan Brossa belong to Parliament's heritage today if she showed a stamp with the king's head cut off? [[Applauds]] One could claim that one thing is a dictator and another a democratic king. But the difference between a dictatorship and a democracy is not that both regimes protect the head of their head of state. To differentiate a dictatorship from a democracy, one must ask which of these two regimes protects the head of the poet who expresses himself against the head of the State. [[Applauds]] And it's not a rhetorical question, because today we're talking about the heads of Cassandra Vera or Valtonyc. If my parliamentary group has already registered and is prepared to register other initiatives against criminalization of crimes of opinion, it is because we share this idea that a lawyer has recently expressed: The latest reform of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, together with the so-called law of gags, constitute a real trilogy of criminalization, punishes freedom of expression, opinion and manifestation because they are based on an idea of criminal law of the enemy. Here is the demolition report presented a few hours ago by Amnesty International, with the title 'Tweet... if you dare', how anti-terrorist laws restrict freedom of expression in Spain. Judges and Judges for Democracy, Reporters Without Borders, Amnesty International or the UN Human Rights Committee have ruled against a specific criminalization for crimes of insult against the Crown, because democratic laws say that they cannot impose harsher penalties depending on the person criticized. And to those who believe that the country has to be protected from its critics by applying the Penal Code, we have to answer that the country is not the sum of those who are identical. The homeland is the other, the other is not the inner enemy, the other is not the inner enemy; the homeland is the democratic struggle to defend the right to be expressed by those who think in the most critical way about this political system and its institutions. In a debate similar to this one, which has already taken place in the Committee on the Interior, some Members opposed the repeal of articles 490.3, 491 and 543 of the Criminal Code, claiming that attacking the king or the flag does not only attack a person or an object, it attacks the democratic institutions that these symbols represent; an argument which, as we have seen, has also been reproduced this afternoon. However, the paradox is that to formally defend our institutions, to defend their supposed character of representation, what we cannot do is to annihilate the content that gives them meaning. The meaning of our democracy is nothing other than the exercise of fundamental freedoms; it is freedoms that are the true democratic institution that we must defend. [[Applauds]] And in this sense, defending freedom of expression this afternoon is not a minor issue because it is deeply connected with the powerful image of pensioners and women, who claim rights in the streets of all of Spain. I'm done, President. Two years ago an infamous intellectual wanted to humiliate a mayor, woman, young and of popular origin, calling her a fisherwoman. The mayor found the answer not in the Penal Code, but on the contrary, going to visit the fishermen in the square. I think we are all aware of the situation in which this debate is taking place on the limits to criticism of State representations and institutions. It is a very delicate context because we are precisely in a crisis of democratic institutions and in a time of conflict between national identities within the State. The response that some have been giving to this crisis of our democratic model is that of criminalizing political conflicts and banning criticism of the political system through criminal means. But if we want to strengthen democracy again, if we want to get out of the crisis with more democracy and not less, if the monarch, if a public office, if any democratic representative, if an institution of the State, want to gain its legitimacy, you know what they have to do: they better go to market posts than to the National Audience. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u43	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Torres Mora has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u44	Thank you, Madam President. When two mathematicians start working together, the first thing they do is agree on the notation system; that is, they agree on the meaning of the terms they use. Mr. Rufián, you intervene on behalf of a party called the Republican Left and I do it on behalf of a party that is Republican and left-wing. However, using the same words, we do not understand each other, so it may be good to clarify the terms first. The term republican refers both to the elective and non-inherited form of the Head of Government and to a political and institutional order serving a demanding ideal of freedom, and to the freedom of what this debate deals with. You rely on the old paradox as to how the democracies of those who want to end them by democratic procedures are defended and ask us, in the name of democracy and freedom, to legislate to slander, insult or insult Spain and the head of state to stop being crimes. What is more, what you claim is that slandering, insulting and insulting a person or a country is an expression of freedom, and we have a substantive disagreement with both statements. Freedom, as Republicanism understands it, does not consist in making my whim without any interference. That idea responds to another political tradition, that of liberalism, which in its worst version, the neoliberal, has become the hegemonic ideology of our time; so much so that it is the one that inspires the proposition of law that you present to us today. Or is it by chance that you have taken the inspiration of the United States? We are told in the explanatory statement of his bill that the first amendment to the United States Constitution allows us to burn the American flag for the sake of freedom. By the way, be careful, that the very ones that allow you to burn the flag carry very badly that you do not rise to the passage of the flag when they take it out to parade to honor one of their wars. [[Applauds]] But to fully understand that idea of freedom, one must see how defenders of the right to carry weapons interpret the second amendment. I don't know about you, but I feel more free knowing that no one carries weapons than buying me a few at 3:00 in the morning. For a neoliberal, drunk driving is an exercise of freedom; for a Republican, no. Freedom is not my whim, but no one can subject me to yours. Freedom does not consist in me being able to slander, insult or insult anyone I want, but that no one can slander, insult or insult me when I want to. [[Applauds]] It is not the democratic political criticism of the head of state that they want to decriminalize. Political criticism of the proud and ruthless king, with all his hardness, is not penalized in our country. In present Spain, not only can we publicly criticize the king's mistakes, but we can freely criticize the monarchical form of the Head of State and proselytism in favor of the republic. And if a king's family member commits a crime, not only can the report be published to the four winds, but we will see that family member accountable to justice, and this is not a hypothesis. No, it is not political criticism that you want to decriminalize, but that you want to validate a form of violence under the protection of freedom of expression. Or is verbal violence not violence? Isn't that a weapon? Don't they hurt the words? Don't they marginalize, don't they destroy reputations, don't they ruin lives words? [[Applauds]] The slander, the insult and the outrage all have the same poisonous root: the lie, and fighting the lie is not going against the freedom of expression, but in favor of the truth that makes us free. Injury seeks humiliation, that is, submission. The slanderer is not a liberator, but an oppressor. It is this kind of person you want to unleash with your initiative under a misconception of freedom. It is the law that gives us freedom. Ulysses, tied to the mast of his boat by his own will, is freer than dead in the abyss after being dragged by the siren chants. Human beings have long learned that the absence of laws, of limits does not make us more free, but more vulnerable to our passions and the whim of the powerful. I am making a point here and apart to warn the House seriously that it would be something much worse than a clumsy imposition of unfair penalties for excessive offences of this kind. What the Strasbourg court says is that criminal populism is just as harmful to democracy as any other populism. Having said that, Mr. Rufián, burning the king remains a crime. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican ideal obliges us to watch forever to keep alive the flame of freedom, also to watch the head of state, but today there is no danger. The hero of Zorrilla's drama was willing to be outraged by the king because in medieval times the king could outrage everyone with impunity. With your proposed law you reverse the terms of the equation, that is, you want everyone to be able to outrage the head of state. They change the number and name of those who can abuse others with impunity, but the result remains tyranny, which, instead of being one's, is of many or, if they want, of a majority. Republicanism should not confuse democracy with the tyranny of the majority, as, by the way, you did on 6 September in the Catalan Parliament. [[Applauds]] Socialists, good socialists, socialist and republican tradition have long understood that being antifascist doesn't necessarily make you a Democrat. We also understand that being antimonarchical is not the same as being republican. That is why we will vote unfavorably on its proposal for a law, because it is not republican and, by the way, it is not left-wing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u45	Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Left Group is repeatedly and with little success - all to be said - putting forward initiatives to repeal the crimes of insult against the Crown. This was the case in the legislative proposals he presented in the years 2008 and 2011; then, in his very brief association with Izquierda Plural, in 2012, and the last, rejected in the Commission of Justice on 22 December 2016. And that made us foresee a recurring debate as well; the surprise is that, at least in the presentation, Esquerra Republicana has proposed to us not a debate but a spur, joyfully, by the way, backed by some parliamentary forces, but the debate on a proposal to repeal some articles of the Criminal Code must be a debate of criminal policy and, therefore, we must not ignore the political-criminal legal foundations that are its own. The explanatory statement of the proposed organic law says it all because it says nothing. It does not have a minimally convincing statement or the rigour that would be required in a matter of as much silence as the one it raises. It is regrettable, moreover, that one of the most important sources of interpretation for legal operators is precisely the explanatory statements, which justify the possible authentic interpretation. But they also provide the appropriate framework for a historical interpretation, for establishing a systematic comparison between legal rules and, why not say so too, for the logical interpretation of the rules. All these tools are fundamental in the law and in the application of the law. But this is not in his proposal for an organic law, but it is also missing that the study of the criminal types which he intends to repeal is not addressed. They give us no reason, they give us demagogy. It is proposed to repeal articles 490.3, 491 and 543 of the Criminal Code, all of which are included in the offences against the Crown. The issue you raise as the sole argument is a purported claim in favour of the freedom of expression that you invoke as the sole cause of your initiative. However, it is not consistent with the choice of the criminal types that they seek to repeal, and it is not consistent because their reasoning does not sink in the weighting and conflict between the constitutional rights of freedom of expression, opinion or information, on the one hand, and the right to honour, including privacy and image, on the other. It does not resist this proposal or the slightest analysis because it starts from disregarding the nature of these crimes, and they also deliberately confuse and omit that they are incardinated within the crimes against the Constitution and that, therefore, the protected legal good is the Crown in the terms provided for in article 53 of the Constitution; that is, as a symbol of the unity and permanence of the State, as a symbol of the unity and permanence of Spain, which arbitrates and moderates the regular functioning of the institutions. This is what is protected precisely in these crimes. These are the institutional values that the Crown represents and not the particular person of the king or of the rest of the subjects covered in the title who constitute the criminal type, away from a supposed personal sacralization of other times, a representation that not only does not imply privileged protection, but, on the contrary, poses important limitations when the person of the king can exercise or not do so as a private individual any action to protect his honour, the freedom to decide on the opportunity of the latter or the greater damages of advertising necessarily associated with that high representation that judicial action will inevitably give rise to the spread of the insult. Nor will his forgiveness be relevant, the reason that the king is not the owner of the legal asset protected from these crimes, is not the only one, is a multi-offensive offence in which the greater severity of the penalties is directly linked to this circumstance. It is the same basis for all crimes against the Constitution: crimes of murder, injury, unlawful detention, coercion or threat or trespassing, also punished with a greater penalty when they relate to specially protected persons, the king and relatives who are designated in the respective criminal types of this title. We can say the same with regard to crimes of outrage against Spain, in all its representations, also to the autonomous communities or to their symbols or emblems with the only requirement that they have been carried out with publicity. And here it is paradoxical that freedom of expression is invoked in order to seek decriminalization with names and surnames - by the way, if we take into account what your explanatory statement says -, paradoxically I say because the debate on the concurrence of constitutional rights, its sometimes complex fit and jurisprudence delimitation, is not opened. You do not refer to articles 496 or 504 of the Criminal Code within this same title, offences against the Constitution and relating to State institutions, which consist respectively of insults to the General Courts or Legislative Assemblies of the Autonomous Communities or which in the case of article 504 equate slanders, insults and threats to the Government of the Nation, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court or the Government Councils or Superior Courts of Justice of the Autonomous Communities, as well as to those who seriously insult or threaten the armies, classes or bodies and security forces of the State. You don't say anything about this. Because they don't know? Most likely, because the truth is that, hearing your presentation, I doubt very much that you have the slightest rigor or legal knowledge. Of course, what I can deduce from the statement we have heard today in this Parliament is that what they have is an absolute disregard for the legal rules and, moreover, a huge ignorance of what are the judgments and the interpretation of them. Indeed, today we have had a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, a judgment which I doubt I have read in accordance with what has been said here, at least beyond what the headlines have been. I recommend your reading because your reading is what the judgments do and it is marriage or confirmation of judicial decisions, application of legal rules, without invalidating the criminal types that serve as a basis. It is only a question of establishing the adequacy of the facts to the typical content. I am sorry, but your parliamentary group is not credible, even in the little conviction they express in protecting freedom of expression. They propose as a model of democracy the United States, but only in this, the rest do not interest them and deliberately omit what the democracies that are closest to us do. Germany, Austria, France, Greece or Portugal are some of the sixteen countries in our environment that punish with liberty crimes against symbols, plus three more, including Spain, that do not punish them with custodial sentences, but with other penalties. Or the custodial sentences provided for in the penal codes of Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany, Greece, Italy, Malta, Portugal and so on up to sixteen European countries for insulting the head of State, in addition to Lithuania, which punishes this conduct with other penalties. It is not a problem of greater or lesser democracy, ladies and gentlemen - I finish now, Madam President - it is not a problem of greater or lesser freedom, but a problem which you repeatedly raise when the decriminalizing, partial and partisan demagoguery which so often floods the left of this House raises false or, worse, falsified debates. Out of respect for the Spaniards, for the dignity of all the Spaniards, and also of their lords, the People's Group will vote against this proposal for organic law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u48	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. First, we begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the promotion of the necessary measures to ensure the veracity of information circulating through services connected to the Internet and to avoid interference that endangers the institutional stability in Spain. Mr García Aegean has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with just three calls to a video club one of the most famous hackers of all time, Kevin Mitnick, got the credit card data from several customers. He didn't even have to steal system passwords through a zero-day or develop complex exploits and didn't even have to capture web traffic and analyze it later. In his book The Art of Deception - The Art of Deception - dozens of examples are recreated in which the gateway to the most skilled hackers is human behavior, social engineering. Ladies and gentlemen, those who wish to interfere in our democratic processes do not attempt to attack voting systems, do not attempt to manipulate servers where information is hosted and do not spend their time with sophisticated technological tools to change the end result. The hackers of our democracy try to destabilize our country by attacking precisely the weakest, most vulnerable and most exposed link: public opinion. Fake news is intimately linked to the technological revolution because without the internet the bubbles, false montages, biased information or simply the lies would have no way to spread and become viral. Any Democrat who is not captivated by foreign governments must, is obliged, plant face to face with fake news. The growing digitalization of everyday processes has increased this awareness - awareness among citizens, businesses, governments - of the need to have tools to avoid external intrusions into our democratic processes. Thus, cybersecurity, not only in this case but in its broad spectrum, is of vital importance when it comes, for example, to protecting critical infrastructures; when it comes to managing and consolidating the results of elections. However, those who intend to interfere in democratic processes have not attacked the systems of counting or storing results, but have focused their efforts on what happens long before the counting, what happens even before they go to vote and even before the voter even looks at who they want to vote for or what options they have at their disposal. In this way, through the art of deception, many create bubbles, spread manipulated information, multiply false news with the appearance of credible and taking advantage of the virality of its content multiply and spread quickly. When the possible denial reaches the networks, the attackers have already achieved the climate conducive to their objectives, attacking the democratic system from the root by manipulating the voter and public opinion in a specific sense. Ladies and gentlemen, fake news is not something similar to the rumors and gossips of other times, from the pre-Internet era. Fake news is a phenomenon intimately linked to technology and the possibility of spreading in a few seconds, without any professional being able to filter the information because it is generated in a distributed way. For example, I took the liberty of taking this tweet: Today the judge of the National Court Juan Martínez Lázaro has died in strange circumstances, he carried the Gürtel case on a proposal from the Socialist Party. [[showing the House a paper with a printed tweet]] This tweet has over 3000 retuits, and it's a lie. He is denied by a journalist from El PAÍS, and says: His name was Javier, he died of cancer, he did not wear the Gürtel and the judges do not name them the parties. The truth has eleven retuits and, the lie, 3000. This is a lie and we must fight against it. [[breaking the role of tweeting]] [[Applauds]] We have also seen some attempts to destabilise and stain public opinion on its legitimately elected representatives, and we have seen, I have even found that some inside this Chamber have shared this information, which is false and has been denied by many of the information from: Germany, with a population of 81 million, has 150,000 politicians and Spain, with 47 million, has 445,000 politicians. [[Show another tweet with the map of the countries of Germany and Spain and their flag]] This, ladies and gentlemen, although one of you has shared it, is also false. [[breaking the role of this other tweet.-Applause]] I would not like to end without remembering that some have also shared, and that is why I believe that the fake news affects us all especially, that bolus so widespread that some of you, some of us, are going to have a lifetime pension because of being Members, which is absolutely false, that it is a lie and that there are those who, before being a Member, I have checked on social networks that you have also shared. And I would like to recall that it was on the proposal of the People's Party that some complement that existed before was removed and it was the Government of Mariano Rajoy and this House that eliminated that possible complement that could be chosen before. Today a Member will have the pension for which he works as well as the rest of the people on the street. I would therefore like us all to act against the fake news and not to give way, as in some cases it is done, to the curse and the fake news. The concern is not exclusive to the political groups, ladies and gentlemen, because the use of digital platforms for the dissemination of false information destabilises Western democracies today and creates a problem that has reached an alarming level. Its global character and the difficulty of controlling the large number of messages, has come to Google, Facebook, Twitter, and those who have faced several accusations in recent months for having promoted false news have also had to respond. In this regard, it should be noted that these three Internet giants, among many other platforms, have updated their terms of service and put into operation tools to end the misinformation. This proposal presented today by the People's Parliamentary Group joins the recent announcement by the Minister of Defense, María Dolores de Cospedal, to promote an agency within the Defence Commission that brings together editors, journalists, politicians and internet providers with the aim of addressing solutions to limit this impact on external interference. The People's Parliamentary Group and the Government are not alone in this concern. I was pleased to see very recently how the European Commission has published the foundations for financing projects related to the fight against false news, using platforms such as blockchain, which allows full traceability and guarantees the immutability of information by linking the source, the destination and the person who signs this news. Ladies and gentlemen, the ease and impunity of anti-democratic interference and manipulation of public information must be a matter for everyone. Not only does it affect the People's Party, but it affects us all, and we all have examples in this regard. Therefore, we believe that the National Security Strategy is in the right direction when the defense against cyber threats and misinformation is placed as one of its main lines of action, as well as acting against ransomware attacks and others directly related to technology. There's a cyber defense slogan - I'm finishing - that says that if you're connected you're at risk, and that's why it's essential to manage these risks properly to ensure the network's security and freedom. An analyst said a few years ago in a forum I attended: When you think no one will waste time looking for that entrance door that you have left open, there is a young man in Denmark with enough time and desire to find it. And Mitnick himself also confirmed it when he said that only those who think they have real security in their software and hardware are being satisfied with the illusion of being safe. That is why we need to go beyond software, we need to go far beyond hardware and we need to develop mechanisms, also in this House, that allow us to protect ourselves in all domains and in all orders. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens deserve to join forces to defend their rights and freedoms on the Internet as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u50	In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u51	President, good afternoon. Don Teodoro, it is two very different matters that bring us, because one thing is to defend oneself from a campaign - that is, not from a single news - deliberate, led by a government or a foreign entity and with the aim of destabilizing democracy - that is a matter that we must deal with - and another thing is the treatment that your GNP gives, to the simple fact of fake news, that amazing news about, for example, the UFO of Torrelodones, what they do is to lead us to a page so that we look at an advertisement. You mix these two issues in your GNP proposal and I believe that they must be completely separated. You have already said this: the subject was dealt with a few days ago in the Committee on National Security and I believe that we are dispersing the matter very much. You yourself were talking about the Minister of Defence's initiative in the Defence Committee and perhaps we should agree that some working group of various Committees should start working on this matter. I begin, if I may, by the coincidences with your proposal. Strengthening our capacity to defend ourselves, to detect and respond to such campaigns is strengthening our sovereignty. This is a matter of sovereignty and therefore a matter of the utmost importance. But you know - because you have explained very clearly what the phenomenon of viralization is - that that requires enormous agility, okay? The Catalan crisis is a good example of how fake news mixed with real news created a huge difficulty for the image of Spain in the world, which unfortunately we will have to try to clean up for a long time. You know why? Because there was no agile response from the State, and I am not referring only to diplomacy, but to the capacity of the State to have strategic communication in the immediate time required by this type of threat to the truth. As we have spoken on the outside, I will not insist on it. We agree to promote collaboration with other States, with the partners of the European Union, because any of us can suffer such destabilising foreign manoeuvres or aggressions, and especially - you are right - in the elections. You are right, it is not about changing the outcome of the elections, it is about creating mistrust of the democratic system. That is why - as your colleagues who are with me at the OSCE know - we have to completely change the way we observe elections, because many of the things that influence the vote no longer have to do with D-day, but with these kinds of phenomena. That's why we're afraid of the introduction of telematic voting, that's why we're afraid of the introduction of electronic ballot boxes, because they're systems that allow for a much easier intrusion than what Holland did in its last election: pencil, paper and mobile phone without internet connection. Therefore, with some minor corrections, we are prepared to support the last three paragraphs of your non-legislative proposal on foreign interference, but with paragraph 1 we have abismal, substantive, conceptual differences, because your approach in general to false news we believe is sliding towards a simple cut in fundamental freedoms, and I would also tell you towards censorship. I'm gonna try to tell you why. You say: You have to detect false news to seal it or disqualify it. We are not talking about a foreign power, but generally about false news. You say: You have to detect them to seal them or disqualify them. I was waiting to see if you clarified what you meant by sealing or disqualifying, but you did not do so in your intervention. To top it off, what he proposes is that this operation be made by specialized public institutions. I take it that you do not refer to judges, who are not to protect us from lies if the lie does not lead to damage to their honour or public image, then I understand that these specialized public institutions would be governmental in scope, so in the end the Government, by administrative means, without judicial control, censures information on the basis of a falseness that the Government itself determines, by doing that sealing or disqualification operation of the news. That is a minefield that ultimately runs counter to fundamental rights. Many people may think that saying that God created the world in seven days is a false news, and others will surely think that saying that man descends from the monkey is a false news, and others could lead us to say: vaccines are useful or useless. That cannot be the function of the State, that must be the function of the cleaning up of public debate by the means that give us the laws, and not jibarizing fundamental rights or creating a kind of general direction of information that determines that a news is false or not. The other day there were two important newspapers that said two completely different things: The Civil Guard believes that the arrest for Gabriel's death acted alone; the Civil Guard suspects that Gabriel's killer did not act alone. [[Showing both press clippings]] From the logical point of view, one of the two news should be false. Both are protected by the right to information. Therefore, the way you point out but do not develop is the self-control of the media, the complicity of the news aggregators on the internet, the ethical seriousness of the media and surely, as you said, the ability of the news aggregators themselves to clean it up, but not the restoration of a kind of administrative censorship, because moreover, Don Teodoro, when we put in place these kinds of mechanisms of limitation of rights, we never know how it will be interpreted outside this House. Do you remember the Law gag, when we said - you approved it - that the cops could not be photographed to preserve their safety? Do you know what that law ended up doing? Provoking that a person be fined 600 euros for photographing a poorly parked local police car. Therefore, when we put these types of devices into operation, let us be aware of how they can be used. We will work against misinformation with the truth, with education, with the complicity of the media and with the complicity of the aggregators, but never, Don Teodoro, skipping our fundamental rights, because sometimes, when you break a sheet of false news, as you have done here, you may also be breaking a sheet of the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u52	Thank you very much. We're moving on to position-fixing. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, organized misinformation, systematic lies are not just an uncomfortable reality, they are part of a new intelligent strategy to attack us. The first thing, therefore, is to understand that reality; the second, to accept it; the third, to know how it affects us and, last, to be prepared to defend and respond. I think your proposal opens two interesting debates. The first one talks about who we are and what values we want to protect against this invisible enemy, because we do know what the other minister intended - as she said - to transfer a negative image of Spain, to generate internal institutional and social instability, to break the European Union's construction project. These objectives will have to be seen if we really share them all; that positive image of Spain, that unity in the European project, that internal stability. Interesting debate, in any case, what should be done before the initiatives that you are asking us to launch. The second is obviously the most technical debate, who is the enemy, how he acts and how we can defend ourselves. The weapon we already know is lies and deception at the global level to destabilize; the mode is concealment and repetition, and the medium is the global digital network, mixed with technological novelty, a certain invisibility and, therefore, impunity. I think it is not a novelty, it is true that the enemy changes, but how we should react more or less is always the same: intelligence, strategy, alliances with those affected, resources and specialized personnel. Therefore, if I had to add any proposal to the four that we are going to support favourably, it is, first, that we have a previous pact of what we want to defend, in the depth of who we are, a previous political agreement. Secondly, to include in those initiatives what you have mentioned about that analysis group that can be set up within the Development Commission and, thirdly - and this was also said here - judicial control so that other rights beyond the right to the truth are not adversely affected in this new fight. In any case, we will support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our vote will be against, because we believe that this initiative raises and follows the same parameters of conspiracy theory and alarmism to generate a state of things favorable to social control. You pretend to end anonymity on social networks as if it were something negative; you want to end the right to free information and you want to end freedom of expression. And now they do it on social networks, which is where they have the most difficulty in exercising the coercive work - which is really well known in the Spanish state - of state apparatuses. Let's look at the evidence. They started - that has not pointed out so much in his speech as in the text of the proposal - with the famous Russian bots and with the theory of the Russian-Venezuelan conspiracy that had tried to influence public opinion in relation to the Catalan process. They did not say that these bots were also hired by the People's Party, or by other parties of the Spanish State, for campaigns to spread and multiply their message on social networks. They did not say that these companies are generally Russian because they have the largest number of companies dedicated to bots. In any case, the special unit of the European Union to analyse these cases, out of 1368 cases analyzed, has found zero false news related to Catalonia. However, Dastis goes to the BBC and makes a fool of himself - as we all could see - to say that the scenes of violence on the screens were false. And to all this we also see how someone is allowed to call the Minister of Defense to tell him that Latvia is going to send troops to Catalonia. For that to happen, to believe those bubbles, there's no need for social media. Anyway, and that's the issue I'm ending with, are there fake news and informational attacks? If there are those of the Government, for example, with the data center of the Government of Catalonia on October 1. But were there fake news, fake news before social media? Yes, on March 11, 2004, the Minister of the Interior, Mr Acebes, spent days publishing a false news that was to point out ETA's authorship in the 1-M attacks. [[Shows a paper with the image of Mr. Berrueta.-Mr. García Aegean shows a tablet with a few phrases]] This led to the killing of Ángel Berrueta by a rather disorderly policeman; he killed him because he did not want to put up a cartel blaming the author of the March 11th criminal attacks on ETA in Madrid. That is the reality of the fake news, which has sometimes been launched by the Government with quite a degree of irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, they talk about measures that exist in other countries in a similar way and set the example of Germany. I would like to point out, as the Socialist spokesman has already said, that point 1 has nothing to do with any European legislation. Why am I not worried that this kind of action will be taken in Germany, but I am very concerned that it will be taken in the Spanish State, why it will be. Maybe because of things that have happened. All you have to do is read the explanatory statement. They set as an example of fear news on October 1st in Catalonia. It has been shown that such a thing does not exist. The health services in Catalonia have shown that 1,000 people had to be cared for, but then, in case they do not trust the health services, the College of Physicians has said. There is a report by Amnesty International on this and there is a report by Human Rights Watch on this. Is all this also dominated by the Russians? Are you going to argue that Mr. Putin is behind Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International and the Honourable Col·legie de Metges de Catalunya? [[Mr. García Aegean shows again a tablet with a few sentences]] Please, let's be serious. We think you're making a fool of yourself trying to put doors to the countryside. You definitely don't try to chase the fake news, but sometimes we think it's the People's Party itself it's an immense fake news as a party. [[Mr. García Aegean shows a tablet with a few sentences and a picture of a person, above which in red letters is read: BULO]] Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u58	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u59	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group presents us with an initiative concerning the so-called false news spread through ICT in its manifestation of divisive attacks, that is, the dissemination of news in a robotic way with the aim of creating emotional dissemination in society so that it is difficult to continue with a social or political dialogue; use of those so-called divisive attacks that occur when matters are hot on national political agendas, because it is when those attacks are most disruptive in democratic societies and uniquely in electoral and crisis periods. Indeed, it is a phenomenon of this, that of false news, which reaches its maximum expression at times of high information interest, which is increasing and which demands a system of safeguards so that citizens do not form their opinion and, in their case, vote, deceived by false news. However, I do not believe that there is a unity of opinion as to which is the greatest agent for the dissemination of false news, and this issue is important because the lines of action to counter them may be different in that case. It starts from the idea that it is bots, software that perform repetitive tasks, the main agents of dissemination, acting in a combined and coordinated effort for interference through digital media and social networks in political and electoral processes, with the intention of influencing them through campaigns of disinformation and interference. However, Josep Corbella a few days ago in La Vanguardia echoed a research by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the famous MIT, published in Science magazine, the most extensive ever published, where it analyzes a twelve-year period, from 2006 to 2017, referring to 126 000 news in 4.5 million tweets, on Twitter data, which has given researchers access to all their archives and financed research, on the truthfulness of news data from six independent organizations, and contrasting the truthfulness of published information and in circulation in the digital media. Well, the conclusions reached in the research into the subject of this study, the most comprehensive ever published, are: first, that false news is retweeted 70% more than true news and that certain news takes six times as long to reach the citizenry, which means that false news is spread more and more quickly and not by the bad faith of users, who spread lies in conscience, but because they are more interesting, they seem more novel and people are more likely to share new information. Second, false news appeals more to emotions, such as surprise and indignation, which also contributes to more sharing. It's highly emotional news. The research also shows that people are the most propagating people and not bots - programs for malicious purposes - as has also been suggested following Russian interference in the recent American face-to-face elections. If they were just bots, the report concludes, we would only need technological solutions, but it is ultimately behavioral interventions that are needed to stop the spread of false news, and the first thing to do - they recommend - is a campaign aimed at the citizenry with the slogan: 'Think before retweeting'. Returning to the initiative, we have nothing to object to with regard to its last two points, the 3rd and the 4th. However, as far as the first two are concerned, we appreciate an excess of activism about so-called divisive attacks, which cannot properly be described as cyberattacks, over which there are not enough studies and scientific work to know the contours and density of the problem, much less to pretend to create within the institutional framework an organization that determines the veracity of the information and its sealing or disqualification before the citizenry. Please note that the MIT study, published in the magazine I have cited, referred to six independent organizations responsible for examining published information and, as a corollary to this empowerment, commissioned the security forces and bodies, the public security officials, to respond to these actions that foreign women say. The latter, without having a deeper knowledge of what we are talking about, we see it frankly hasty and without having to abound in the delicate question of freedom of information, because in open cyberspace the same principles and values of the Union that it promotes out of line must be applied online. That is why we will ask for the split vote by points and also for the announcement that we do not share the first proposed point with the compromise. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u61	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. 'In Spain there is little shooting.' Do you know who said that? Yes, a mayor of the PP, the mayor of Villar del Cobo, under the pseudonym of a Pastrana on Twitter. Calumnies, insidiaries, pimples, lies, manipulations; that's right, without giving a face. A mayor of yours. How many more charges do they have trouping over the network? Where's your courage? Where's your hideaway? This is worse: 'Put the ballot boxes on the floor. Slowly. Hands behind your head'. Do you know who said that? Yes, it was said by the Lieutenant Colonel of the Civil Guard Daniel Baena, Chief of the Judicial Police of Catalonia. Yes, the very chief chief officer in charge of investigations and instructions for independence cases. He said it alone, or in the company of others, under the pseudonym of Tacitus - Tacitus, what irony! The historian of the Republic and its concept of freedom - also on Twitter. For months that Tacitus, who forgot that 'the militia is nothing but a religion of honest men', actively dedicated himself to besieging, embedded in his pseudonym on the network, his own investigators. It is a conduct that in any truly democratic country would constitute a scandal of such proportions that would imply the immediate closing of all the cases investigated under the mandate of the aforementioned officer. And you, gentlemen of the PP, who have not shown a glimpse of scandal by those and other behaviors, bring us here today a proposal balloon probe of an unmatched hypocrisy. While you speak of truthfulness, you still resonate the hammers on the hard drives of your headquarters. Today they present an original staging that aims only to put the wedge in the control of the network, the cyberspace, a bastion of freedom on which you have not been able to extend entirely your eternal, atavistic and inquisitorial will of censorship, not for lack of will, but for its technical complexity and for its massive use among the population. They want to control what they can't, like their newspapers and related TVs. Their censoring drift is truly troubling and is being revealed in all public spheres. They propose a control over content as officers at your command, your mayors and you go to know who else are dedicated to besieging, instigating hatred and slandering political opponents and lying from the most shameful anonymity. Indeed, their hypocrisy and fear of freedom of expression compete upwards and are worthy of study. They're coming. Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría, preceded by some statements by her esteemed foreign spokesman, Minister Dastis - his interview at the BBC will go on to the history of the ridiculous Hispanics - has said that there is an organized army of robots by the networks intended to support the cause of Catalans. Perhaps influenced by the last season of Homeland, and being as you are given to subscribe to conspiracy theories, you quote reports from the U.S. Senate, forgetting that in Westminster you are still debating between the bochorno and the chotheo for appearances of alleged experts who hold their own spurious theses. With the aroma of Holy Office, of 'live the caenas', of 'invent them', of judeomasonic contubernium, the army of electronic zombies that help Catalonia now arrives on their screens. It is curious that you, rather than thinking that behind political actions there may be a social movement, popular, massive, peaceful, eager to change things, always prefer to justify your involutionism, your lack of will for dialogue, turning it all into a coordinated attack on your flag, with hidden interests on the part of a ladin, invented, vertebrate and non-existent enemy. What actually happens is that they use contubernium as an excuse to disinform the population, not to mention their poor initiatives to placate the problems of the people they so much invoke, so that those of IBEX pay their taxes where they must, like every neighbor's child, so that the light costs what in Europe, hiding in the meantime that they have polished the pension fund and that they are giving to the banks 40 billion euros. And to cover up your ineptity you take out a digital version of the contubernium and come here without any redness to give us, you, lessons of disinformation and intoxication; you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador García has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am not going to accuse the rapporteur for the People's Party of being an evil one who has brought here an issue that does not interest anyone, that we are talking about gossip a little bit more or less, to see whether we correct it or not, and whether or not the proposal that has solved it solves it or not. What I believe is that we are not giving you the dimension that really has this problem. When we talked about the First Industrial Revolution, with steam, everyone knows what it meant; everyone knows about the second, with the issue of electricity, or that of oil. But it seems that with information we are talking about virtual worlds, digital worlds that have nothing to do with feeling and living everyday. Concepts such as big data, artificial intelligence, neuromarketing or process automation for many of your lordships mean nothing. It seems to be words of not knowing which students I don't know which careers, but which have nothing to do with what will determine all the conditions of the labour market, with what will determine all our health, our education, our productive model, and what will determine how we will live. And when we talk about cybersecurity, cyberintelligence or fake news, it seems that we are talking - I repeat - about a 'frikada'. Fake news is defined as a false thing, to influence with lies or half-truths in public opinion. What's the potential they have? That they camouflage in the appearance of true news, making the person thinking that today is consuming information very quickly and checking little that, as it is being worked hard, it is true; therefore, automatically retweeting and I put it into circulation myself. We're talking about what this has to do with anything. If it only affected politics, ladies and gentlemen, I could understand them, but it does affect politics, the economy, science and terrorism. Urban legends, fake news, have always existed. For example, in Obama's 2012 campaign, a website had to be created to disassemble - and not have to use it in campaign resources - all the lies that were being published and being moved. One journalist died recognizing that the roles of Iraq that justified that war were false and that a premeditated campaign had been waged. In the United States, we are now talking about 2015, it seems that we do not agree because the word Russia is heard. Well, I want to remind you that the Cold War was a short time ago in force. Also, if we go to the conflict in Syria, the United States and Russia have some common aspects and have very serious differences in approaches. With Brexit everyone also knows that there have been campaigns in relation to this. And let's get on with it, nationalists, there have been campaigns on the subject of Catalonia, because there is evidence. At the same time, as has been said here, in a study that I, too, was going to mention and that I am obviously no longer going to do because it has been recreated very well by the previous rapporteur, it is shown that fake news are attractive, that they are more innovative and that they are closer to people, that they are hard-working and that they make it easier for people to use that as a transmission belt. They spread much faster and have much more impact capacity. That is why perhaps the European Union has put forty experts to work and today have already given some brushstrokes. This seems to be important for the European Union. These forty experts, among other things, come to give the reason for this study because what they say is that the media must be enhanced; that the writings must be modernised; that innovation in the communication of these media must be improved; that the training of professionals must be improved; that tax exemptions must also be made for this group, because the truthful and effective press that is currently guaranteeing the closest truth has a very important economic problem as well. Ladies and gentlemen, the study at Nanyang Technological University in Singapore talks about 126 million people in the United States being contaminated on Facebook with content that had to do with the Russian network, that 700,000 suspicious profiles were shut down on Twitter and that the misinformation campaign promoted by false accounts from Russia was a reality. But not only is Russia dedicated to doing that, they do so many more. What did this do? That Facebook hires 1,000 professionals around the world to try to tackle this problem at the information level or that Twitter clearly intends to modify its algorithm as well because it knows that its reputation and, therefore, the future use of those social networks is at stake. It has also been mentioned here that Germany imposes fines of up to 50 million euros - of course, as is Germany, it seems that they can do so - but Italy imposes fines of 5000 euros and it is also true that we have to act on the educational level. Italy, Sweden, Finland, are trying to put in schools something that is absolutely fundamental, as well as authenticity, quality stamps, transparency, good practices. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to make a call from the Committee on National Security and the cybersecurity conference so that the whole House can take this absolutely seriously. The cost of insecurity in 2015 was $700 billion. It is estimated to be 6 trillion in the coming years, by 2025, a stage in which we will have a shortage of one million professionals. The United States did not cover the posts of 250 000 professionals in 2015 and we in Spain need a great deal of agreement, a state pact for security, defence and intelligence to incorporate cybersecurity as a traditional concept part of our comprehensive model of security and defence and that we all work to guarantee freedom and rights on the Internet, but also security. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u64	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u65	I think it is difficult to discuss this GNP without understanding the context in which we are moving, which is openly a context of democratic involution in our country. There is a clear offensive against freedom of expression that withdraws works of art, that imprisons tweeters, that imprisons rappers, that imprisons musicians and that is obviously undermining the most basic elements of democracy. [[Applauds]] The truth is that this fake news, as it says in English, seems very modern. I do not know what Mr Gutenberg's People's Group would have thought when it came to nothing other than starting to reproduce things massively, but the legal systems of the time saw quite badly that the use of freedom of printing was made, which was then based on freedom of expression as an element that gave rise to the birth of democratic systems. That is what we are talking about, a process of democratic involution. We are talking about that a moment ago we saw how an attempt was made to justify the maintenance of an offence of opinion - after a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights - by arguing republican arguments. I wanted to remind Mr. Torres Mora of a phrase: 'What a good vassal it would be if I had a good gentleman'. [[Greetings.-Mr. Torres Mora utters words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on National Security we have been having a spurious debate on the basis of an absolutely inconceivable pact of the monarchy bloc, where someone like Mrs Milosevich is given a talk and is invited to speak out for the war in this parliamentary seat, which is responsible for discussing these matters; after arguing that she has no proof of all the things that are being said, the spokespersons of the three main forces that make up the monarchy block laugh at the parliamentary seat to whom she speaks out for the war and censorship. What is being put forward is a law on biting 2.0, what is being put forward is the constitution of the 'Ministry of Truth', and when they have seen that they were making the most ridiculous in the National Security Commission, Mrs. Cospedal comes and proposes to us to make a working group on freedom of expression. Where? The Defence Commission. [[Applauds]] That is, the Army responsible for controlling media activity. The truth is that I - you are going to allow me to say this - find myself a little closer to Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. Just as in a couple of afternoons you can instruct her on the concept of freedom of expression, as she expressed with regard to this issue of stamps. But I can tell you that I am not surprised; I am not surprised that a party that has as its school of political formation Manuel Fraga school does these things. Mr Manuel Fraga was the Minister of Information and, what do you want? Reinstate. Look at what a great headline, let's see if it sounds like: The Ministry of Information and Tourism is reporting on a new anti-Spanish campaign abroad. [[shows a newspaper clipping]] The penalty is that it is 1962, but Mr Fraga would be very proud of the arguments that the PP is making in this House trying to institute censorship, which is a crime in our legal system. [[applause]] That's why Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría didn't finish laughing at Mrs. Cospedal. You know, this is divided between fraguists and sorayos, we'll see how it comes out of the game. [[Applauds]] But democracy is obviously in danger, and it is in danger because there are other forces that do not realize the risk that democratic order is currently taking in the face of the involution offensive that is taking place in our country, an absolutely unacceptable involution offensive. If you want to talk about fake news, I'm going to talk to you about the one who wanted to justify an illegal execution in a summary trial and was talking about 'this horseman' and handing out dossiers to the international press. Criminal Manuel Fraga did it to attack Julián Grimau; he also did it against the Ruano student, discrediting him in public to try to justify the crime and torture that was committed against him. [[Applauds]] And so did the People's Party government in an attempted coup attempt to lie to the public as a whole by meeting with all media directors in this country to impose what? The official version, which is what we are talking about, of imposing the official version and ending freedom of information. [[Applauds]] I want to tell the information professionals that those who propose this are the same ones who persecute photojournalists in demonstrations, they are the same ones who persecute those who exercise the right to freedom of assembly, the right to freedom of expression; they are those who are dismantling democracy piece by piece. And a call must also be made to all democratic forces to deal with this process of involution, especially... I imagine they don't hear, but it's okay. [[One honourable Member: You don't have to shout.- Mrs Villalobos Talero: You can't hear!]] It's not that you don't hear, it's that you don't listen, but it's nothing because it's not addressed to you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, who already know what you've come to, and unfortunately as a democratic example Singapore is short. [[Rumors]] And the complicity of the orange factor, of Aznar's new party in this matter does not surprise me either, because if they drink from Milton Friedman's political concepts, it does not surprise me that they also assume the postulates of the doctrine of national security, since also Mr Milton Friedman became an advisor to the Pinochet dictatorship. We do not forget what has happened and we know that those who go for social rights first come for the rights of freedom, for fundamental rights, for the most basic democratic freedoms to prevent people from facing those who defend the economic elites of this country against the social majority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u66	I ask Mr García Eggea whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u67	Let us talk to the Socialist Group to make a compromise. Madam President, I would like to ask for compliance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure because of the inaccuracies of some of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u68	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u69	The Republican Left Group, the PDECAT and even Bildu have cited the fact that there was no false news in the case of Catalonia and the explanatory statement of my non-law proposal has been harshly criticized. Here are some of the retuits made by the deputies themselves of a gentleman who was a miner in 2012 and said that it had been the police charge of October 1st. [[shows a tablet]] With this, in my group we prefer to be parents of the future than children of the past like the Lords of Podemos. Thank you. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]] - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the recovery of the Toledo Pact as an expression of political consent and social dialogue in order to agree on measures to ensure dignified and strengthened penalties THE VIABILITY OF THE PUBLIC PENSION SYSTEM. [[File number 162/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u70	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to restore the Toledo Pact as an expression of political consensus and social dialogue in order to agree on measures to ensure decent pensions and to strengthen the viability of the public pension system. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor to defend the initiative and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u71	Thank you, President. We know that a period of long-term pension freezing would achieve the long-awaited budgetary balance, but does this make any sense? This does not seem very reasonable, it would condemn the retiree to reduce his consumption when it is likely that with age, as his health worsens, he will require more care and attention. These are not my words, he said, within a few months of the adoption of the 2013 reform of the People's Party, one of the technicians who was part of that committee of experts that you set up, gentlemen of the People's Party. By the way, this technician could have said it before and not wait a few months later. Indeed, there will be no economic sustainability if there is no social sustainability, that is the premise. And without teaching anyone, gentlemen of the People's Party. I know I'll hear today: You froze the pension in May 2010. Indeed, an exceptional measure corrected by the 2011 reform, agreed by the social dialogue in the Toledo Pact, which resulted in a loss of 1.2%. But you didn't freeze, no, you stole in 2012 nightly and lightened 1.9% of pensioners in Royal Decree-Law 28/2012; a 1.9, remember. Mr Rajoy said: We will never freeze pensions. And in 2013 they took out a reform that is not that it freezes them, it is that they perpetuated them to freeze. You lied and you know it. [[Applauds]] Talk about the ZP unemployed, talk about the increase in unemployment with the Socialist Party government, but you have the record unemployment rate, or do I have to remind you? It was in December 2013 that, thanks to its 2012 labour reform, created job insecurity and inequality, as the OECD, the IMF and even the European Union's six-monthly recommendations warn. There were 67 billion in the Reserve Fund in 2011; they left it shaking. Social Security revenues for 2017 do not exceed those for 2011; they have indebted the system with EUR 25 billion in loans; there is no longer a Reserve Fund with which to seek financing abroad, not to mention the EUR 8 billion that have been subtracted from the Contingency Fund. They intentionally weakened income through their labour reform, dropped family caregivers, hardened the conditions for reaching the age of fifty-two and ended up truncating their work career in many cases. Their labour reform generated unemployment, severed contracts, imposed unwanted partiality and excessive temporaryity, and all at the same time. And that is thanks to its great two reforms: work and pensions. By the way, today they leave us the gift of the historic deficit of 18.8 billion euros. That is your heritage, gentlemen of the People's Party. Stop hiding in the management of other governments - they can do it as much as they want - but give your face at once for yours. [[Applauds]] There will be no economic sustainability without social sustainability. We're talking about decent pensions. Today we are here because in 2013 the People's Party decided to change the pension system definitively and passed the CPI Olympicly. Today the experts we already know say that in twenty years the loss of purchasing power can be between 20, 30 or 40%. In other words, they punish pensioners for a loss of secure purchasing power and above all those who receive less pensions. Gentlemen of the People's Party, do you want to tell me what expectation these people have before their future who today depend solely on that pension? Today we are talking about 33% of pensioners who are below the poverty line. If so, what room for manoeuvre is left for them to carry out their life projects? And let's talk about young people. What do young people and not so young expect in the face of wage inequality, the gender pay gap and, worse, the pension gap? What future awaits you? What future awaits us as a society, do we have to ask ourselves? That is today's debate: what future do we have before this 2013 reform? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as generations we have had opportunities, we have an obligation to offer them to our young people as we have: decent jobs, stable contributory careers and stable wages. With the current reform, the life projects of today's young people and today's women are non-existent. And, look, the Toledo Pact talked about making a specific recommendation for young people, but with cross-cutting measures that require the government to take spending policy measures already in the next state budgets to ensure fair pensions for the future of young people, housing policies, from zero to three years, fair labour market, decent investment in human capital. If we want to reassure citizens, and by CIS we have already seen that an alarm has been created in pensions, we must act urgently. I told them that without social sustainability there will be no economic sustainability. What economic sustainability can there be if pensioners cannot build their future, cannot consume? We know that 60% of GDP is private consumption and that the weight of pensioners is the most important, and the proof has been this harsh crisis. Today the analysts say - and if they don't know it, I leave the report to them - that the fall in replacement rates will cause real damage to the Spanish economy. A fall in pensions will have macroeconomic consequences, including the loss of more than 750 000 jobs in 2035. We are talking about 9 million today plus 6 that will end up being, 15 million pensioners. Gentlemen of the People's Party, and I am speaking to the rest of the parliamentary groups, we have two options: to stay where we are, which is immobilism, or to look forward and project a future for each and every one of us, especially for those who manifest outside the street and especially those who manifested themselves and those who manifested themselves on 8 March, the young people. The young people were calling their attention. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. Today we hear: what makes sense today if we don't get pensions; pensioners charge more than young people; the risk of poverty is more for children than for young people. Do you know it's beneath all this? Generational confrontation. That is a brutal mistake that the right wants to impose on us and we cannot afford to be able to impose it on us. We have to rebel against this because, if not, we are collectively wrong and we cannot allow that. [[Applauds]] I'm done. I look forward to the consensus on this initiative because it will be the consensus that we will project out on the street so that people have the peace of mind that this has to be the social protection system with which we have to guarantee our future, the future of everyone, of the elderly, of young people and of course of women and children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u72	In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Vidal Sáez intervenes by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u73	Good afternoon. There are those who try to make us believe otherwise, but the truth is that six out of ten pensioners get 800 euros or less at the end of the month. Look, today a pensioner has to pay an extra 6.6% to warm up his house; the light continues to rise; also gasoline, telephone, tolls. The economy is growing but, on the other hand, pensioners are being revalued by 0.25 % of their pension. The People's Party eliminated the link between the increase in pension and the cost of living with the IRP and has led the current pensioners to lose purchasing power; and that is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. Look, the date the fateful sustainability factor comes into force, that factor that's basically going to lower our pensions in the future, is getting closer and closer. The People's Party today holds the worst management of social security history, and this is also a fact. They have broken down the social contract and there is growing mistrust of the protection mechanisms, and that mistrust, ladies and gentlemen, is not exactly unfounded. Look, thousands of pensioners today, tired of getting caught up in their hair, going out on the street, and now this government is basically afraid, which is what they have today. The stage, fortunately, has changed, and has changed thanks to the push of our grandparents and grandmothers. For this reason, our Confederal Parliamentary Group together with Compromís, we ask, in terms of the massive mobilizations, that the President of the Government and the Minister of Employment should appear to give explanations. Look, we'll hear it tomorrow and maybe that's why today is a bit strange this proposal; a proposal that has a little closet bottom, recycled; registered more than a year and a half ago and that via amendments has been updated. Our Confederal Parliamentary Group shares the desire that the country's main challenges be addressed from an honest dialogue with all parliamentary forces and, of course, with civil society. That time has run out when bipartisanism closed the agreements in the offices completely from behind to the rest. That is why today we welcome the return of the Socialist Party to the light and the departure of its policies of pacts with the People's Party from what we were accustomed to in this legislation, as they did for example with the interprofessional minimum wage. Social security is one of the most sensitive areas of our welfare state and deserves a common commitment; a commitment to ensure its public character, the re-evaluation and the sufficiency of pensions, as recognized by the Constitution itself... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u74	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u75	Thank you, President. ... in Articles 41 and 50. Tomorrow we will see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, whether you return to the Constitution or remain outside the constitutional mandate, as you are today. But one warning: the state pacts cannot be an excuse to save the government its obligation to act, nor a space to dilate politics forever and deliberately. The Toledo Pact Commission has no regulatory power and they know it, and pensioners can't keep waiting for us to make recommendations for the Government to follow up on them or not. The Government must now respond, absolutely immediately, without further excuses. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that they use the Toledo Pact basically as a containment dam to buy time. Look, while thousands of pensioners go out to demand not only their just ascent to their pension, but also in defense of a public system for all, the Toledo Pact is eternal and does not answer the questions and needs that most of our citizens have. We seem, if I may say so, to be a genuine voodoo. The President of the Commission, on the one hand, acting as a ram of the Government and the bank, proposing that we save two eurillos because she basically sells us that we will not be entitled to a pension; the minister leaking in bad faith information from the Commission, compromising the agreements and releasing proposals that later in the Commission her own parliamentary group has to deny; the Socialist Party recycling proposals that initially urged what we are already doing: gathering, a non-stop; and Citizens, how about, whistling, which is what they know best to do, to see if they are doing a little better with the pensioners than with the feminists, which is often ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen, last week! [[Applauds]] Look, with the reforms of the People's Party, not only do the current pensioners become poorer, but our social protection system, today and tomorrow, is at stake. Spain is the only country in the European Union - together with Greece - that has not yet regained its wage level before the crisis. We are growing, but this growth is not generating quality jobs, it is chronifying precariousness. Facilitating layoffs and reducing their costs or lowering wages -what a surprise! - obviously did not create jobs, what I created was poverty and exclusion, which is what we enjoy today. A lesson that seems that Citizens still do not understand and, despite knowing well that the labour market, their heart, is Social Security, insist with proposals of more precariousness and less protection. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, if you want to join the car for the defence of pensions, I make a proposal to you: stop vetoing our proposals from the Confederal Group at the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies and let us advance in the defense of a public pension system. [[Applauds]] We have negotiated a compromise for the proposal to meet the current challenges. Pensions must grow at least at the same rate as the cost of living does. The sustainability factor, which causes us to cover less if we live longer, apart from being classy, is unsustainable. It is essential, especially in terms of gender justice, to ensure adequate pensions for all pensioners. Today's question, exactly as tomorrow's question will be, is what the Government intends to do to guarantee to all our just right to a dignified old age. Tomorrow we will listen to the president and on Saturday all the workers of this country have an appointment with the defense of our public pensions because, if anything we have learned the new generations that we come, is that when you do not fight for rights, you lose them, so on the street!, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u76	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Camps Devesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to be in memory of a member of these General Courts who passed away last Monday, yesterday, Mr Miguel Barceló, tireless worker - twenty-two years senator - for his city, which is mine, Benidorm, for the province of Alicante and for the whole of tourism in Spain. Senator Miguel Barceló, rest in peace. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, without wasting any more time, let us begin, in the debate before us, by mentioning the paradox, the incredible paradox, that the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group starts his speech by accusing the People's Group of having frozen pensions. What a bad memory, Your Honor! The only Government that has frozen pensions in Spain is the Socialist Government in 2010. They froze the pensions then and today they want to freeze the Toledo Pact. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, yesterday's unemployment is today's social security deficit. Don't pretend to fool anyone. This is smooth and flatly so because 70% of the financial imbalance of the system is due to the massive destruction of employment that you generated during the crisis, and that drifts towards the irresponsibility that you have entered into lately brings with it that those who have managed to improve that situation, who have brought economic growth and job creation, and we have done so by paying more and better pensions, be those to whom you direct your criticisms. Ladies and gentlemen, today's and tomorrow's guarantee of our pension system is economic growth and that it translates into increasingly high-quality employment. In 2011, 1500 jobs were destroyed a day and today 1,700 jobs are created daily. We have had forty-seven consecutive months of annual increases in indefinite recruitment. This is the first time that Spain has emerged from a crisis creating indefinite employment. Today, 73.3% of workers have an indefinite contract, 7 points more than in the year of the crisis. The use of 'poor quality' in quotes, which is concentrated in temporary contracts of less than one month, accounts for only 0.89 % of the total contracts in Spain. Should we get better? Yes, certainly, but today employment is no worse quality than when the Socialist Group's lords ruled in this country. At the end of last year we had the same level of indefinite employment as at the beginning of the economic crisis. Therefore, the job that has been created is stable employment, the first one we have recovered. Spain is now leading the creation of jobs in the euro area, the creation of young jobs, the creation of women's jobs, the creation of self-employment and the creation of full-time jobs. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a way to go, but if 70% of the deterioration in the health of the system is the destruction of jobs, today we will be better off than in 2011, with 2 300 000 new jobs, which means that 70% of the jobs destroyed by the crisis have been recovered. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have more employment and better employment, which has resulted in better income for social security. The growth of the number of members triples the growth of the number of pensions, but social contributions income is also in clear annual growth, 5.36 % in 2017, to reach 109 billion euros. Today, for the first time since 2008, quota income is growing above pension spending, and with almost a million members less than in 2007 we have record contribution income throughout the history of Social Security. The use of the Reserve Fund is criticized by those who determined it to be so. I advise you to read out your roles: supporting public pensions, page 50. They said there exactly how the Reserve Fund had to be spent. By the way, what you do not remember is that you did not make the full contributions of the years 2008 and 2009 and, as the minister already told you by quoting a professor, if the Socialist Party had carried out the separation of sources of funding with respect to minimum supplements in a progressive way and would not have had to do so quickly in 2012 and 2013 the People's Party Government, today the Reserve Fund - please, ladies and gentlemen - would have more than EUR 100 billion. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary left, do not distort reality. Pensioners have maintained purchasing power during the crisis. That's a reality. The risk of poverty among people over the age of sixty-five has been reduced by half, from 17% to 6.3%, and, despite the economic crisis, the benefits of the system have been improved. I won't have time to quote all of you, but I have them at your disposal. But if a decision - I do not want to stop saying it - has been decisive to maintain our pension system, it was not accepting the rescue of Spain in 2012. That would have meant that we would have had to lower pensions by between 15% and 40%, as did countries that will sound a lot to you, sure: Ireland, Greece and Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, your proposal is a parliamentary monument to incoherence and contradiction. Why is the reform contained in Law 27/2011 correct and the reform contained in Law 23/2013 should be repealed? I remind you that the second one had more votes in favour than the first, and for those who value reforms based on what they may imply of a reduction in pension expectations, I will tell you that the reform of 2011, socialist, represents a greater reduction of that expectation than that of 2013, popular, according to all the experts who have appeared in the Committee on the Toledo Pact. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not tire of telling you that the reforms undertaken by everyone to date are a guarantee of sustainability. Ageing and technological change are not going to stop while we discuss specific issues. We are facing a process that will last decades and whose economic, social and demographic dimension is of such a nature that it will go beyond any short-term position or attempt to make the immediate prevail. I think there are plenty of reasons to be very proud of our social security system, what it means, what it brings, what it offers and what it guarantees. Much remains to be done, yes, ladies and gentlemen, but we must make proposals that add up to and for all. We have an agreement in place to renew the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. That must be the priority, and that is where appropriate and feasible proposals should be moved that should run away from making promises that are far from reality and that, when they are not fulfilled, the only thing that they achieve is to move society away from politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u78	Thank you very much. We now turn to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We said this on 21 February when I asked the President of the Government of Spain, Mr Mariano Rajoy, at the control session, and urged my political party, Union del Pueblo Navarro, to increase the pension revaluation rate by referring to the consumer price index. Therefore, we said it on the 21st, we said it today, and also in view of tomorrow's debate, Union del Pueblo Navarro is, firstly, to guarantee public pensions; secondly, to maintain the purchasing power of pensioners, and thirdly, for a structural reform of pensions without diminishing the rights of pensioners, including non-contributory pensions. Having said that, we understand that there is a compromise and therefore a consensus and, in that regard, we would vote in favour. I also understand that you, the Socialist Group, have amended yourself in that non-law proposal registered already a year and a half ago. But let me say the following, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. Firstly, as far as the explanatory statement is concerned, it seems to me that a political group, such as the People's Party, should not be demonised. The memory is sometimes weak, and I want to bring back to you on May 12, 2010, the shock plan presented in this very rostrum by the former president, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. This criticism is made by a party, Unión del Pueblo Navarro, which voted in favour of the royal decree that later developed the measures of the shock plan. That being said, I do not think it is time to make opportunism, it is not time to put the interest of the parties above the general interest; it is time for us all to have an attitude of reaching agreements, which is what society is waiting for and demanding. Let us hope that the twenty-first century will finally reach this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u81	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first focus on what I believe will be the debate today and tomorrow, because I understand that the mobilization that is taking place throughout Spain around the infamous 0.25 goes beyond strictly monetary issues that, by avoiding tax gifts to private pension schemes alone, we would have enough money to finance the rise in pensions. What is at stake here is that the mobilization of pensioners is the ultimate function of the Government, of the policy of this Government, and the question we are asking ourselves is what is the purpose of a Government that is not able to guarantee the future, in this case, of our elders; what is the purpose of a Government if it is not able to protect our elders. What message does a government project that rescues highways and is full of corruption? By the way, the last one accused of corruption is Mrs. Loreto Cascales by embezzlement, coveting and prevarication. Take note. Meanwhile, they deny an increase in pensions to guarantee a minimum standard of living. I remember that phrase, "There's no money left, there's chorizos. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they not only attacked my generation by condemning it to precariousness and uncertainty. You not only attacked the feminist movement by mocking that 'it's a move that of the wage gap' and then you put on the loop; you, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing with the 2013 reform is attacking our families, our children, mothers and grandparents. That's what they're doing. You, in short, are the ultimate expression of the inability to govern, more likely not to lose political power than to protect people. I finish with a message to the socialist bench. I think this is an important enough issue for us to show height of sight; do not fall into the old sterile tacticism. Many thanks and no to 0.25.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. [[Rumors]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1993, a few decades ago, and in a context of strong parliamentary and political controversy over the pension system and, in particular, during the 1993 general election campaign, from which the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, Miquel Roca, led, it was proposed to this House that a study committee be set up to analyse the feasibility of the reforms of the public pension system, with two convictions. One, that the public pension system needed reforms to ensure its sustainability, and two, that it was essential that those reforms, in addition, were the result of the agreement and consensus that prevented what had marked so much the 1993 election campaign, which was pension electoralism, from being repeated. In addition, in particular, the 1993 and 1995 debates included as a central element that the policy of the annual revaluation of pensions did not correspond to the freedom of the government in office, but was marked by law. A few years after 1993, listening to this afternoon's debate - and I am afraid that tomorrow's debate too - we are almost in the exit box. What we now have to demand from all of us, and especially from the majority group but also from the rest of the parliamentary forces, is that we be able to reread the best examples of 1993 and 1995 that allowed us to reach two kinds of agreements: the agreement on reforms and the need for consensus in them and the agreement on the idea that guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions is essential for a just pension system. The main flaw in the 2013 reform is that it broke with that consensus and with that principle of the Toledo Pact. Today it is up to us to return to that origin. If this afternoon's debate, tomorrow's debate and the debate we will have in the Employment Committee on Thursday serve to agree on these two issues, this week will have been useful for society as a whole and for pensioners. At least that will be the position that the Democratic Party is going to defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u85	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. He walked on his way, said Machado and sang better Serrat. It makes its way along the road, and that seems to be what the Toledo Pact defined by saying what was the way to go. But when you look back, you see the path you've walked and you won't have to step back. Perhaps that would also be the definition that Machado would give of the failures that the Toledo Pact has entailed in its current edition. This GNP in principle did not have a definite object, a generic object, seemed almost a confession of incapacity of the Socialist Party when it came without making any concrete proposal, without making any way forward. On this path he has travelled a path that is to try to make certain proposals through a self-amendment that he has then enriched with others from other parties, forming a transactional one. Indeed, he has travelled a path in which we can participate, in which we can play. A path that, although it has been the Socialist Party that has travelled through it, perhaps it was the government that had to go through. On that path, different proposals are made, all of which are acceptable to my party, some with greater or lesser precision, but all of them have been the subject of mention or contribution by the Basque Nationalist Party to the Toledo Pact because, among other things, we have never departed from that implicit commitment not to distort that debate with the staging in public square from what separates us. That forum, that of the Toledo Pact, must be the end of the road, the meeting, the path travelled, not the one that remains for us to pass. However, the Government knows that in that path, in that journey there are points on which not only need to be discussed, but need to be agreed, there is a need for compromise. We must even leave behind in that path paths that are never to be set foot again, and those paths are those of the IRP, those of the sustainability factor. But it happens that, as the Government turns back, it is also obliged to contemplate a unanimous criticism of the opposition to an attitude and decisions such as to keep the IRP alone, against a unanimous social cry. That's a path that he never should have walked and that we hope he'll never step on again. That is why, from that point of view, we agree with the Socialist Party not so much on the proposal for a law, but on the compromise that it has managed to agree on, and that is why we will support it. But there is one more chapter, ladies and gentlemen, with which, with your permission, I will continue to paraphrase Machado's poem. Ruler, there's a way, I'd say. Of course, in the area of pensions there must be. Tomorrow, we hope that the President of the Government will make concrete proposals that will lead to a path on which we can all agree and agree. I will add something more and not so much related to the issue of pensions, because, Governor, there are also other subjects, some more urgent than others, in which this Government must make its way on the road. Today at noon we have arrived from Tindouf a group of eight deputies belonging to the Intergroup of Support for the Sahara. It has been an instructive and eloquent journey, which has allowed us to better understand the reality of a people seeking their recognition, their freedom. Well, on my behalf and on behalf of the seven other Members who have accompanied me, I would like to ask you, as well as on pensions, as a matter of urgency, given the reiteration of the case law of the European Court of Justice on the right of the Saharan people to self-determination, that this Government should follow the path of recognition and that it should not only comply with and comply with what the courts say in law, but above all satisfy the step of their freedom, of the liberty of the Saharan people. Saharaui are your footprints the way to freedom and nothing more. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u87	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the fact that tomorrow the President of the Government will appear to make a monograph on pensions, we did not intend to intervene. In principle, we had decided to intervene when we saw the Socialist Group's proposal, which urges the Government to recover the Toledo Pact and little more. It seemed to us a non-law proposal not too interesting, but, after knowing the amendments, and above all the compromise, we have decided to say four things. First of all, we believe that it is imperative for the Government of the State to reconnect the revaluation of pensions with the CPI. In fact, never, ever, ever would have had to have been otherwise, because contributors' pensions have the right to be revalued in order to be able to live. This is what has been saved in the form of compulsory contributions, revalue them according to the CPI so as not to lose purchasing power. I take the opportunity again to call for the immediate withdrawal of the 2013 reform and its sustainability factor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the PNV and Esquerra spokesmen have said, we are also not surprised that the PSOE is bringing a GNP - another - practically empty of content and also a few hours from the start of an important debate on pensions in this House. The most surprising thing is that the PSOE talks about urgently rebuilding the Toledo Pact. I say this, first of all, because the Toledo Pact Commission has been working very hard for many months on the objectives of sufficiency and sustainability of the Toledo Pact. Secondly, because it is not the Government, as this GNP says, but we, the political groups represented in this House, who are committed to reaching an agreement within the framework of this Commission to renew that commitment to the maintenance and consolidation of the system that the Toledo Pact had in its original wording and, as I say, to the sufficiency and sustainability of the current system. But what is most surprising is that it is precisely you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, who are talking about rebuilding the Toledo Pact when your attitude in the framework of this Commission is about to put sticks on the wheels for its progress. We have a clear example of a few weeks ago, when they almost blow up all the Commission's work so far, striving to give the pact a partial view, with marked electoralist hues, using the Commission for something that goes against what must be its inspiring principles: the use of pensions as a bold weapon. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now refer to both the Members of the PSOE and the few remaining Members of the Group of the European People's Party. I do not think one thing should be said when you are in the opposition and do another when you are in the government and more when we talk about pensions. That is precisely what the Toledo Pact is about, of trying to reach consensus, bearing in mind that many times when we enter the Toledo Pact Commission we have to leave out the political colours in pursuit of the general interests, which are the interests of our pensioners, and not only of the current pensioners, but also of future pensioners. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, were tired of criticizing the reforms of the Socialist Party in 2011, because they meant a cut in pensions. It is true that they made a cut in pensions; they frozen retirement pensions and, apart from that, carried out the 2011 reform raising the retirement age. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, who now come from the saviors of the homeland, do the same with the reform of the People's Party of 2013. Without going into the form, because it is true that the People's Party made that reform of its back to the Toledo Pact, bearing in mind that at the time they had absolute majority, both reforms were in the same direction. We have always said that we have come up to this rostrum, but not only do we say that. If we take the European Commission's report on the European Semester that was published last week, it refers precisely in a chapter to the reforms of 2011 and 2013. It says: As a result of these, the sustainability of the pension system in its current form is practically guaranteed thanks to its design, provided that its different mechanisms are allowed to function as planned. It also says: But, as a result, there will be a reduction in their amounts with a strong impact on the standard of living of the Spanish population. So, ladies and gentlemen, who are you trying to fool? Stop lying to the pensioners. You knew that your reforms were going to cut pensioners' pensions. Pensioners deserve to be treated with respect. Pensioners have been real heroes in this crisis we have been through and, as I say, in many cases have been the pillars of families in the worst years of the crisis. We therefore believe that the time has come to return that effort to pensioners, but not with lies or populist measures. Here I am addressing the spokesman of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America. I do not know if you know that precisely one of the problems we have in our social security system is the lack of birth. Citizens have managed to double paternity permits in 2017. Citizens have made it easier for autonomous women to become mothers with a law that we passed in 2017. I'll tell you what you can do: support the 2018 budgets, because we'll have one more week of paternity leave and, in addition, we can make the worst pensioners who are going through it have between 30 and 60 euros more in their pockets for deductions in the IRPF. That's what they can do. [[Applauds]] In Citizens we believe that pensioners have to maintain their purchasing power, but not just the pensioners of now, but pensioners of future generations like ours or that of our children. Therefore, they are not worth bread measures for today and hunger for tomorrow. The debate does not have to be whether we raise pensions 2 euros or raise them 6 euros. The debate must be whether we can afford as a society our pensioners in twenty or thirty years to lose 30% purchasing power, but that is not going to be solved by debating some GNP here. That is why we all need to take decisions within the framework of the Toledo Pact so that there is a balance in the system. In all this we are working on Citizens, both in the Toledo Pact Commission and providing solutions outside it. Some of them I have already said here today, will be debated tomorrow and, therefore, I will not go any further on them. However, before I come down from this rostrum, I do want to think about it.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u90	Mr. Del Campo, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u91	Yeah, I'm done. I think we have one of the best social security systems - if not the best - but we have a great challenge ahead and it seems to me that this great challenge goes beyond the sustainability and sufficiency of the system. That great challenge is to carry out the necessary reforms to keep intact over time the implicit intergenerational pact that sustains our system as we know it, public and distribution, which is the system that we have inherited from our parents and grandparents. We are going to live up to it and I hope that all the groups in this House are, too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I ask Mrs Perea i Conillas whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u93	President, we're doing a transactional. We do not accept that of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u94	All right. I understand that the transactional will send it before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u95	We'll get it to you now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u96	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u97	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the policies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment to reverse the depopulation process in Spain. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u98	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First and foremost I wanted to thank the Network of sparsely populated areas of southern Europe that have accompanied us today, representatives of Cuenca, Soria and Teruel, for the excellent work they are doing. In the interpellation to the minister we discussed in the previous plenary, I tried to tell how one lives in this Spain of abandoned and forgotten interior, and how their people feel; those people who for so many years have seen how their backs were turned and who are fed up with so many unfulfilled promises. Ladies and gentlemen, depopulation should be a matter of state, because it affects not only the regions that are depopulated, but it affects the whole country, as demographic balance is a key and fundamental factor in sustainability. But in addition, this problem we have is of such magnitude that it cannot be dealt with alone and in isolation by an administration. It must be faced with a strategy and an overall vision among all administrations and, of course, with a far-reaching vision. We cannot be thinking about the short term, but we have to think about the long term. Every community, every province, every city, every county cannot make war on their own. Therefore, in this motion we propose the development and development of a national strategy against depopulation, with the participation of all the actors involved and, of course, as it could not be otherwise, with the participation of the people who live there, who live on the ground, who are the ones who best know their needs and their potentialities. We proposed that this national strategy against depopulation should be drawn up within six months, but we are prepared, in view of the amendments, to be drawn up within a shorter period. There have been many studies on the subject, there have been commissions in the Senate and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces has also presented different measures and proposals. In short, we all agree on the diagnosis and we almost all agree on the different measures that could be taken to solve the problem. Therefore, there is not much discussion. The most important thing is that we put ourselves to it, that we adopt it, because action is urgently needed. We can't wait any longer. I'm going to give you some data. According to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, almost half of the municipalities in Spain are at risk of disappearance. In 2016, there were 2488 municipalities in Spain, out of 8125 in which no children were born; that is, in more than 30% of the municipalities in Spain in 2016, no children were born. But in 1079 municipalities in Spain there is no child under five years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, these figures are really dramatic and they therefore call on us to act without delay. Therefore, we propose as a second measure in our motion that, on the basis and as a consequence of that strategy, a law on the reversal of depopulation be drafted that delimits the areas most affected by this phenomenon and sets out a set of concrete measures and actions to prevent depopulation. An equal party tells us that there is already a rural development law and that what would be needed would be to implement this law. Well, we agree that this law exists, that it would have to be put in place - of course - but this law speaks of different things. This law refers, for example, to those areas with a population of less than 3000 inhabitants and a density of less than 100 inhabitants, but the reality between some rural areas and others in Spain is very different. Here we are talking about areas such as the Universal Mountains, which cover part of Cuenca, Guadalajara and Teruel, which have a population density of 2.8 inhabitants per square kilometre; that is, it rivals Mongolia as the most unpopulated country in the world. [[shows a news article published in Heraldo]] That is the reality we must face. In addition, this well-intentioned Rural Development Act focuses almost specifically on the agricultural sector, which is of course important for rural areas, but we believe that it does not have to be the only driver of growth in these areas. Because, ladies and gentlemen, why can't you set up a startup in a village in Cuenca, in a village in Teruel or in a village in Soria? Today, with the new technologies, you can set up a business, you can start, you can create and develop an application from anywhere in the world, but, of course, in order to develop those businesses you have to have something as basic today as the internet line, and if in some of these villages we have no mobile coverage, they will understand that this is difficult to undertake. Here we see how barely a week ago Pancrudo, a village of just over 100 inhabitants of the province of Teruel, had to pay out of his pocket, out of the budget of the city an antenna to have coverage, because in the middle of 2018 they had no mobile phone coverage. [[shows another news published in Heraldo]] This is the reality. Last week the Government announced a plan to help purchase housing in municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants. This, which could in principle be a good measure, will serve nothing if we do not guarantee that services are provided on equal terms in all the territories and in all the municipalities of Spain, because, if not, there will be no one who wants to live in those territories. We lack doctors, we lack teachers, we lack civilian guards, but, yes, we do have politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, any neighbour of any people in Soria has the same rights as any neighbour in Madrid, and today, unfortunately, this is not being done. That is also what we ask in our motion, that the same services be guaranteed, regardless of where you live.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u99	You have to conclude, Mr. Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u100	I'm finishing up, President. We also call for the Commissioner's work on the demographic challenge to be guaranteed, which we do not know why it is not working today. There is also an amendment by the Group of the European People's Party which talks about guaranteeing and maintaining the seats, those seats which we do not know if they are working, but which seems to be not helping much, because depopulation continues to grow. It also talks about the Electoral Law, which we also do not know what it makes sense here when we, from Citizens, have not said that these provinces lose deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us leave the political wars, the partisan struggles and agree on an issue as important as that of depopulation. The citizens of that empty Spain...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u101	Finish, Mr. Gómez. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u102	... so often forgotten, they deserve all our attention and concern. Let's all agree and fight the depopulation together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position on this point, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Depopulation affects half of Spain, especially Asturias, and requires that we look at Europe and learn from the countries that lead us, which are the mirror in which we should look to solve it. The motion makes it possible to discuss, as Mr Gómez said, an inescapable question of state, but it has not taken into account some of the work that has already been done, such as the measures proposed by the FEMP, which he has just mentioned, or the detailed study being carried out by the Senate, as well as the political initiatives that have already been proposed but that are not funded. Nor has reference been made to the political recommendations made by the European Committee of the Regions and its relevant proposal for the European Union to face the demographic challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, the historical six-monthly statistical series of the vegetative balance is increasingly being exceeded in Spain, with many more deaths than births and the consequent collapse of the birth rate, as well as the breakdown of our population pyramid. This has a devastating effect on areas that are already dragging a demographic crisis, such as the unique case of the cantabrian regions and their rural mountain cores. There are models in Europe to correct this serious demographic situation. The success of direct birth support and those favouring timetables and flexibility in employment, such as those in Germany or Finland, is contrasted. The Government, together with the autonomous communities affected by the ageing population and the depopulation of their rural area, should promote birth promotion plans to correct the growing negative vegetative balance of the population. The Government should also be urged to incorporate demographic criteria into the next autonomous financing system, with a view to curbing depopulation and the challenges it poses in the form of employment, youth, family, technological connectivity, housing and sustainability policies. And finally, a third call to the government to defend before the European Union the allocation of the cohesion funds and the funds of the common agricultural policy, which are key to the balanced development of areas with depopulation difficulties; by the way, both funds are severely threatened by the aftermath of the Brexit, the exit from the United Kingdom from the European Union, and the European budget cuts, as Commissioner Oettinger very recently warned in this very house. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Postius Terrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the proposal put to us by the Citizens' Group on policies to reverse the process of depopulation in rural areas, it is clear, as has been said, that this is not a new issue, and in fact this issue has also been dealt with many times in this plenary and also in the framework of the various committees on agriculture, both in Congress and in the Senate. When we review the various sitting papers, all groups come to the same conclusion: addressing the situation of depopulation in rural areas must be a priority for any Government, but also that the measures to be taken should be sustained over time, not only from a legal point of view, but also from a budgetary point of view. This is precisely where the fundamental problem lies: the resources of the State have been clearly insufficient since 2007, when the Rural Development Act was passed. The proposal that is being put forward highlights a problem, but it does not address an important issue, and is that the necessary resources that must be made available are far more than those that have been put on the table in recent budgets, and I believe that the Citizens' Group also has responsibility on this issue. The Democratic Party has tabled an amendment which states precisely that resources should be increased, but we have also tabled an amendment to make it very clear that exclusive powers in this area are autonomous powers and therefore must be respected. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Postius. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We discussed this motion on depopulation, but by giving it the real name, by calling things by their name, we should call it abandonment. Abandonment has been what the public authorities throughout the State have done with regard to the rural world. It is the different public administrations, governments of the People's Party but also of the Socialist Party, that have left the people of the rural world behind and that have in many cases turned into deserts different parts of the territory of the State. It is not only a desire or a leave on the part of the State in its functions, it is precisely for many years that the public authorities have encouraged the expulsion of rural areas. Every time a unitary school is closed, every time an agricultural or forestry holding disappears, every time a pharmacy is moved or every time a train stop is closed, administrations become active agents of depopulation. It does not surprise us, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, that this motion presents it precisely a political force that is constantly demanding that the State withdraw, that the public disappear. They do not sympathize with their centralizing, hyperliberalizing and public spending reduction proposals with what we need to revitalize the rural world. And we wonder, gentlemen of Citizens, whether this will simply be a gesture to enter the rural electorate of the People's Party. You, in our view, are necessary accomplices to the policy that has been expelling our people from your land and we see it with practical examples every day. Do you think that by voting, as you did today in the Bureau of Congress, against the proposal of a law on the revaluation of pensions and the abolition of the sustainability factor, they do not also hit our rural world and do not also encourage depopulation? Or even by voting, as they have voted, against taking into consideration the proposal for a law for the implementation of urgent measures in the field of local government, those administrations that work most precisely against depopulation. You, with your facts, are acting in many cases, in our view, against what could be public policies precisely to attack depopulation. In any case, in our group we believe that action against depopulation should take place from many areas, but from a very concrete point of view: decent jobs, revitalizing agro-farming and sustainable forestry, adequate public services, health care, school and clear support for all services of the welfare state in rural areas. We already have many reports on what needs to be done: the report of the Special Senate Committee in 2015, the FEMP document on population and depopulation, the opinion of the Committee of the Regions of Europe or resolutions of the European Parliament which clearly state that cohesion policy instruments are essential to tackle the demographic field, and point out precisely provinces of the Spanish State such as Soria, Cuenca or Teruel. Finally, we have a report of the Economic and Social Council, which has published this year 2018, with the title Report on the Rural Environment and its Social and Territorial Vertebration, which shows an absolutely demolishing panorama in each and every aspect analyzed, and no one, absolutely no one from the Government, neither Mrs Tejerina nor of course the Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge have done anything about it. The report, by the way, emphasises that Law 47/2007 for the Sustainable Development of the Rural Environment and, occasionally, fully reproduces the motion tabled by our group in this House a year ago and passed, and that we are still waiting for the People's Party Government to apply. [[Applauds]] And with regard to the Commissioner of the Demographic Challenge, the only concrete thing the Commissioner should do this year is to develop and develop the strategy for the demographic challenge. More than a year has passed since his appointment, and the strategy is still not in place. And what did the commissioner do? Absolutely nothing. Basically, the Commissioner's activity this year has been three meetings of the committee which must draw up the strategy. In view of this situation, and in this regard, we make it clear: if the strategy does not arrive, we immediately ask the Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge to resign. He has done absolutely nothing, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and of the Government. I'm done. We have tabled three amendments which we believe contain a motion which without these amendments the truth is that it is completely empty. First of all, it seems essential, as we have already said, to shorten the time to present the strategy for the demographic challenge. Secondly, we call for the amendment and adaptation of Law 47/07 on rural development in all institutions, as called for by all actors in the field. Finally, we call for the inclusion of resources, an economic memory attached to the strategy, so that the commitments are clear and concrete. To mitigate depopulation we need public policies and political will, do not toast to the sun, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens and the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u110	Thank you. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we cannot begin without expressing our surprise because the questioning that has led to this motion of Citizens was made to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment in a matter, such as depopulation, which affects territories, municipalities and, of course, people and mainly for a reason, because there has been a Government Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge for fourteen months now, under the Organic Ministry of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. A commissioner who appears to be responsible for developing and developing a national strategy to address the demographic challenge and for promoting tasks that can contribute to addressing the problems of population ageing, territorial depopulation and the effects of the floating population. A commissioner who, on the other hand, no one knows what he does and what he does. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group requested in December last year the appearance of Edelmira Barreira, a government commissioner in the face of the demographic challenge, to report on her work and on the strategy for which she has been entrusted and for which she has not been held accountable. We do not know what has been done in these fourteen months. Therefore, if there is a minister to be questioned in the face of the problem of depopulation, it is the Vice-President of the Government, Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, who should have given the explanations long ago. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialists, demographic change is one of the great challenges facing this country, as it affects the balance of our welfare system. Therefore, it is essential to spare no economic means or resources in a State project to combat depopulation, and this challenge must be led by the Government of Spain in coordination with the autonomous communities and the municipalities. It is a reality that, while the population is concentrated in very localized areas of the center and the coasts, the interior Spain is emptied, subjecting itself to serious demographic risks. It is also a reality that, while the population accumulates in urban areas and their carpets, most smaller municipalities remain in desertification densities. In Spain, 60% of the municipalities, close to 5000, have less than 1000 inhabitants, where little more than 1 500 000 people live and 996 of these municipalities have less than 100 inhabitants. It is clear that the decline of the inhabitants of a territory means the loss of their future. Those who leave are often the youngest and the best trained, with the oldest people remaining in these territories. And not only is it a question of the future, demographic change calls into question the quality of life and opportunities of people. I'll give you a very graphic example, very clear. A child born in an urban core can end up having much more educational opportunities than someone born in the rural world, thereby violating the rights that are protected by the Constitution. It is also a reality that not everyone ends up having the right to live where he wants, because many people are forced to emigrate. For all these reasons, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled several amendments to the Citizens' motion to improve it substantially. Our proposals seek that the Government of Spain should move to action once and for all and should already pursue political measures to combat depopulation as a State challenge and to promote proposals, which are called for by the Senate, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and rural development associations. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government must already invest the budgetary resources that are needed to advance the law on sustainable rural development, an essential law to combat the depopulation that the Government has kept in the drawer for more than six years. We do not want to waste any more time, set it in motion and put budgetary resources in place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Blasco Marqués has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u112	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. We are dealing with a motion that stems from an inquiry of vital importance to a large part of Spain and I would have liked the proposing group to have proposed some concrete measure beyond saying that depopulation must be reversed by law, as if it were such a simple matter. Let's see, Mr. Gómez, as spokesman - it's nothing personal - of Citizens. It was 1886 when the British Stevenson wrote The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. He was certainly a visionary; he managed to see, more than a hundred years ago, the evil that today haunts Citizens. The book is known worldwide for being a representation of a disorder that makes a person have two or more identities or personalities with opposite characters. Let's get rid of the disorder - that we are in politics - and change it for an irrepressible rage to please or deceive the population, the whole world, and we are before a party, yours, Citizens. You can cheat on some all the time, you can cheat on everyone for some time, but - believe me, I've been in this for many years - you won't be able to cheat on everyone all the time. They won't be able to. They cannot go up here and try to be the party that defends depopulated Spain or the rural environment when all the proposals that are known to them - concrete; not distractions, concrete - to date are their electoral program. And if we attend to your election program we have a series of measures that go in favour of the rural environment... all of them! The first, the famous one to suppress the municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants, which then deny, but which in their day defended with force. [[Applauds]] The second is to abolish the provincial parliaments, which are, in the depopulated provinces, those that maintain the rural environment and those that support the municipalities that you wanted to abolish. [[Applauds]] The third is to abolish the Senate, which is the House of Territorial Representation, which we too want to amend to improve. There the provinces, the villages and the depopulations have the same representation: four senators per province. You propose to change it for a council of presidents of autonomous communities and autonomous cities who, curiously, at the time of the votes will have a weighted vote according to the population; then, the region from which you and I are, Aragon, would have a weighted vote of 3.5% in the Senate that you propose. And the last of the concrete proposals that have emerged in the press is their intention, in addition to their electoral interests and those of Podemos, to amend the Electoral Law to the detriment of the unpopulated provinces, although they then deny it. [[Applauds]] That's why I was telling you about Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, because they do one thing and then they come up here and propose the opposite. You, Mr. Gómez, as spokesman for Citizens, were here the other day as a representative of southern Lapland. The southern Lapland, for those who do not know, covers the province of Teruel, the province of Cuenca and the province of Soria. For you, seeing that it was the Lapland of the south, said: As for Teruel I do not go out, I present myself for Zaragoza and then I go out. In addition, I have come to pronounce Zaragoza as Zaragoza's. Mr Gómez, bring concrete proposals as the People's Party has done. We even proposed - the minister proposed the other day - to advance the six months that you proposed to three, because the Commissioner, and also the minister the other day, told you that the strategy to fight against the demographic challenge and especially against depopulation was already about to be presented. The Government has been making announcements that will then be reflected in the depopulation strategy. The President of the Government has already announced that broadband will reach all municipalities in three years by putting the necessary money. The Minister of Development, in the Council of Ministers, proposed aid to municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants so that people could buy houses and the government of Aragon itself says that it is not interested in buying houses in rural areas, which they bet on renting. I only have enough time to tell you that, if you want to make any concrete proposals, such as the amendments put to you by the Group of the European People's Party, we are open to negotiation, but if all the proposals are those of your electoral programme we have to say loud and clear that you are against that unpopulated Spain that you have said here today that you want to defend but that is not true. I have shown you with arguments that do not present any concrete proposals. In the presentation of the strategy we will see and be delighted to receive some proposal from Citizens that goes in favor of unpopulated Spain. It is not the intention of the Popular Group to confront urban Spain with unpopulated Spain. Both are needed, both are the same Spain that we should all defend in this House, and from the People's Party we invite all groups to work once this strategy is presented to improve it if anything can be improved. Mr Gómez, do not give lessons from the Citizens' Party to the People's Party, which is the most rural party, the most widespread in all Spanish geography and the one that best defends this Spain, as the election results show in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Blasco. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. When Citizens questioned the minister and therefore presented the motion that brings to debate today, we consider that the arguments that she made and above all the situation she described, showing her concern about the depopulation situation that the Spanish State suffered, were worthy of being taken into account without a doubt. But four different problems arise, because, even if they have ties of union, they are not the same problem. On the one hand, there is the decline in birth, a global problem; on the other hand, the problem of depopulation in rural areas, which although it has a relationship, is not a direct consequence; a third problem is the lack of services and the problem of the agricultural sector in rural areas, and a fourth problem is what the government commissioner does in the face of the challenge of depopulation. They therefore raise four problems in the same motion. I said that the situation you have raised requires attention, no doubt, and consideration, but it also seems to us at least paradoxical that your group, the Citizens Group, is presenting it, because for what you rightly denounce, the abandonment and the situation in rural areas, your party has offered the worst possible solution, which is the political no-one. Without precedent, I fully agree with the argument put forward by the representative of the People's Party. When democracy was established, the Constitution and the electoral system adopted by this House had an objective, in addition to the principles of representativeness and so on, that it was to give an equal voice to those territories which, if we had based ourselves solely on the population index, would never have had a representativeness, giving a voice in a House to that forgotten Spain to which you appeal. You know that a pure and hard proportional system would have left rural Spain out of the parliamentary game, making the gap between the urban and the emptiness greater. As you know, political representation is what gives citizens their ability to exercise commission. If you take that away from him, what do you have left? Well, you want to change the current electoral system... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u115	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u116	... by another that prioritizes the urban, the populational and forgets the space that, in addition to having the misfortune of being empty, will lack representativeness. Where situations are not the same, where inequality exists, policies of positive discrimination are applied. That is why the current Electoral Law, which you want to change, positively discriminates against those who are not in an equal position, and I am surprised that you, whom I believe when you describe the hardships that live in unpopulated, forgotten and unserviced places, are willing to support an electoral law that will affect precisely the opposite, as when your leader, Albert Rivera, proposed to bombo and platillo, following the stellar of the magenta - politically disappeared although you have inherited very well your phobias and astoundings and even some deputy -, drastically reducing the number of municipalities and also the disappearance of the diputations. You believe that this is a good measure to combat depopulation and the absence of services. What's left of a rural core if it's taken away from it? The politics, the municipal relations, the proximity of the citizen, etc., have them with its consistory and the dignity of a city council is the same in that of Madrid as in that of a people of seventy inhabitants. You have a purely metropolitan view - it is noted that you have not directed many municipalities - and a rather elitist conception of municipalism. Citizens, when they present real problems, such as those they have presented, it is not you who take a shot at the foot proposing solutions that further harm what you are trying to combat and do not always resort to father or mother state when the competences in rural development, for example, are of the autonomous communities and do not like that concept of applying immediately national strategies as if all the solutions for everything served in the same way, because it is not so. In any case, we have to focus on rural populations, we have to focus on creating productive activity, because everything else is going to be in vain. Setting up a high-speed network does not automatically generate employment or business activity. These are elements that are needed when it really is productively invested to ensure that rural areas, wherever they are, are active. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course all of us in this Chamber are aware of the impact of depopulation on the rural environment and of the need to really address the problem from its complexity. We have already mentioned that this is an issue that has enormous complexity and covers all areas. In fact, it is not a new thing either, but it has been repeating itself for decades without any effective political response today. It must also be remembered that the problem has not been tackled face to face and today the situation is much worse than that of a few years ago, with probably insurmountable problems, such as the ageing of the population and the rural exodus of young people, who see no way out of the future. We face a far more shocking gravity than we did a few years ago. We believe that the most serious thing is that we always try to give a response to a problem that, moreover, starts from a perception of the rural world charged with the same stereotypes and prejudices of decades ago; a conception inherited from the Illustration and the developmentism that presents itself in two opposite realities: a developed, modern and civilized urban society versus a backward, traditional and primary rural society; a perception that still lives today from approaches as a centre-periphery. Look at how far this limited vision comes that in opposition to its imaginary Tabarnia metropolitan dedicates themselves to scorning the other rural Catalonia calling it Tractoría. Look how deep that model is. With this perception of reality, it is very difficult to make an objective and adequate assessment of what the solutions should be to tackle depopulation in rural areas. From Esquerra we believe and have always defended that all citizens have the same right to receive the same services regardless of their territorial location. This is the base. It is not a matter of mere discursive aesthetics, as we too often see in this Chamber, but a basic principle of justice and social cohesion. This would be the basis on which this problem should be managed. To really bet on territorial balance is to bet on the elimination of territorial inequalities. In this sense, a sustainable and self-management model can guarantee not only the survival of the rural environment but also provide opportunities for those citizens who want to live in those territories. When you propose a national strategy, a great proposal, a great national pact, I do not know whether you take into account the fact that there are different levels of local and autonomous administrations that have been implementing for years, within the framework of their competences, territorial planning policies and rural development plans with the aim, precisely, of combating the depopulation of the rural environment. Perhaps the important thing would be to know what work is being done in different autonomous communities and at the local level, at the municipal or supra-municipal level. In the case of Catalonia, in particular, the main planning figure is the Pla Territorial General de Catalunya, which, pursuant to Law 23/1983, is today the reference framework for the rest of territorial, partial, sectoral and territorial plans. I therefore believe that there is still a lack of dialogue and liaison with the work that has been done. The areas of action of these plans cover a wide range of areas, from environmental to rural development, urban planning and communications. A job has really been done for many years and what would be needed is to try to establish a direct dialogue. Another important element - and it has been emphasized here at some point - is that the territory itself is empowered by its sovereignty and that its participation in the diagnosis of what is actually happening in the territory is not limited only to that but also participates in decision-making. This is perhaps one of the most important points, the decision-making of the territory itself, to talk about what specific actions are taken. In fact, the failure of policies to reverse depopulation in rural areas would not be the result only of poor management, as we can think, but rather of the implementation of an intentional management model that has never looked at the interests of the local population. In recent years we have been witnessing a paradigm shift that has favoured the interests of large estates and corporations to the detriment of the model proposed in 2007 for sustainable development in rural areas. We are talking, for example, about why the distribution of the CAP continues to benefit large owners rather than the active farmer, or how, for example, the excessive valuation of cadastral value in rustic constructions is done on the basis of urban presentation and not a rustic one. There are many examples that tell us that there is no real will. Its model, in fact, is to extend its neoliberal approach to the privatization and commercialization of the rural environment, applying a strategy of deregulation that has been seen in this Chamber and that favors the interests of the big estates and the big corporations but that in no case favors or listens to the interests of the rural communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u119	Thank you very much. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Gómez García whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u120	Mr. President, we're working on a transactional. If we reach an agreement, we will pass it to the Bureau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u121	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the compliance by Spain with the opinion of the Committee OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND CULTURAL RIGHTS OF 20 JUNE 2017 ON THE RIGHT TO LIVING. [[EXPENDITURE NUMBER 173/000081]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u122	We turn to the next item: Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning Spain's compliance with the opinion of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 20 June 2017 on the right to housing. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u123	We were talking a while ago about one of the generations of human rights. A moment ago we were talking about the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and now we are going to talk about another Covenant, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and, in particular, a condemnation of the Kingdom of Spain by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In 1948, the peoples of the world, after the perhaps greatest massacre in the history of humanity, reflected and came to the conclusion that in order for a democratic State to exist, for people to be able to live with dignity it was not only and exclusively necessary that they could enjoy civil and political rights, but that it was fundamental and a constituent part and a central element that they could also enjoy their economic, social and cultural rights, and that they had not, inter alia, led to the tragedy of the Second World War and the emergence of fascism. Unfortunately, these things are not studied in our country and in our classrooms. In our classrooms young people are not taught the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In our universities, human rights are practically not studied as a core subject. Our judges have only one topic within their opposition in the field of human rights. This has consequences; the consequences are that our country has no culture of human rights. Fundamental actors in our political and social life - and we saw it last week - do not understand the importance of these things. That is why the Minister of Development last week did not understand that social rights are also human rights and, moreover, something that our Constitution says in its article 96, that when our country ratify an international treaty it becomes part of the domestic legislation, which is the law that we have to comply with. We signed the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, ratified it and also ratified the optional protocol, which makes the DESC Committee capable of analysing cases, among others, that are supported at the judicial level by social rights, including the right to housing. Very little time has passed before the opinions began to arrive condemning Spain for this matter. I invite your ladies and gentlemen to read the answers issued by the Department of the Ministry of Justice responsible for this matter. We recently saw him in parliamentary office insulting a judge of the European Court of Human Rights because he issued a resolution that he did not like and because it had been proposed by those who did not like him. It is logical that they have to assume the resolutions, in this case of the UN Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I invite you to read the replies given by the Government of Spain. The answers are: apples bring me. We are not talking about the matter, we are not talking about forced evictions without housing alternatives, we are not responding to the requirement of why social housing was privatized for rent when there was a demand higher than the public offer, we are not saying whether there will be legislative initiatives to change Spanish legislation and comply with the obligations of the pact, which is a mandate of the resolution, which is a mandate of the opinion. The opinion says that legislation needs to be amended. Unfortunately, when we saw the amendments of the PP, the PSOE, the Citizens and the PDECAT, we were able to see that there was agreement again in this matter. There is agreement not to modify either the LEC or the LAU, because for what? We say we comply with the resolutions, but we don't go into this, we don't change any laws. Well, if you don't change the laws, what the opinion says... I ask those who make up the groups and the people who speak to them to read it, because there is an explicit requirement. It is being said that there is no right to defence in these proceedings. I have to tell you that on March 8 big things happened in our country. On March 8, the feminist movement gave a lesson to the whole of Spanish society. He began to suggest that it is necessary to turn the axis of public policies, to stop being the private benefit and to start being people's lives. And that same day something else happened, not in Spain, but elsewhere, but referring to Spain. This is a precautionary measure taken on 8 March by the UN ESC Committee, which again paralyses a forced eviction without a housing alternative. I have some bad news for the citizens' lords. A precarious apartment, owned by BBVA, was being used, and the DESC Committee said that the eviction had to be halted. I know that you are concerned about the interests of large financial institutions, and that is why in the proposed amendments to the Citizens' Security Act, you again put the kick on the door, you suggest that there is no judicial control over entry to homes and, in addition, you put at risk the people inside the homes and the officials who carry out these activities, generating unacceptable legal insecurity. I ask the groups not to listen to me and simply to read the opinion, which is quite clear. We need to be aware that systematic human rights violations of housing are taking place here and that they are being done to protect speculators and vulture funds that are landing in our country to take our wealth to tax havens with the complicity of the PP government. I have to say, though I think it's more than obvious. I have previously stated that this government has two large factions, the Fraguists and the Sorayists, but I forgot that it also has an agreement with the Ibex, and it is that the Ministry of Economy is yours and Mr De Guindos, Mr de Lehman Brothers, replaces another one that comes from BBVA. Why do they call him a technician when they should say banker? Why do they not recognize that they have come here to defend the interests of financial capital, the interests of speculators against the social majority? I ask the majority of this House to assume that we must comply with the opinions, that our country cannot remain outside international human rights law. That means pointing the finger at the vultures and speculators, because once again the parties of the regime agree on one thing, in which we do not point out the main problem of housing in our country, which has a name, a single word: grabbing. [[Applauds]] We are the country of Europe with the most empty dwellings and I remind its lords of Article 128 of the Spanish Constitution. All the wealth of this country is subject to the general interest, so to comply with the law! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position this time, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would have loved to feel so vehemence in the defence of human rights on the part of your group in the face of what happened on 1 October and to call for respect for the outcome of the elections on 21 December. In Catalonia we know what is the violation of human rights, because systematic violations of these rights are occurring in Catalonia's citizens. So, I want to point this note here. The second question I wanted to comment on is that I do not think that the amendments tabled by my group have been read. You said that we did not put forward legislative reforms and of course we pointed them out. There is a reform of the LAU to increase the duration of contracts and to update the income according to the CPI to try to avoid speculation, and you have said nothing about it; on the contrary, you said that we had not proposed alternative legal measures. Yes, we have, and I look forward to an answer from your group to see if you accept any of them. What we have presented to you, without contradicting the content and spirit of your proposal, indicates that we agree that families in vulnerable situations cannot be left unattended. We very much agree with that, but we also agree that social assistance in case of need of housing cannot be made by the individual, the natural person who has a rented apartment and who does not receive rent rents, which is, for example, the assumption you contemplate in your motion. We agree that housing has a social function and the administration must be urged to do so. Sometimes it cannot do so because there is a shortage of housing, because many homes are delivered to vulture funds, financial institutions or the Social Housing Fund. Moreover, we do not know where the housing is available, because it turns out that large forks or banks do not register the housing in their name. For example, today in Catalonia, which is where there is most need, it is not possible to know how much property ownership of the Sareb is in a municipality in order to make it available to the people who need it. We have tabled a number of realistic and realistic amendments to urge large forks, the Sareb and the Social Housing Fund to draw up a social housing map, so that it is possible to determine where empty housing is available and to make available to the Administration for social policies the housing that today is in the hands of large forks and, therefore, often unoccupied. We want you to take some of these amendments into account and tell us what your group is prepared to accept. We want to make a possible housing policy, not a toast to the sun in front of the Television. We want to present a series of measures that are aware of the reality and the need, but without penalizing private property. A balance must be struck between the legitimate right to own a property and the legitimate right to own a home. What you tend to do is always decide on one side, trying to avoid that anyone who has managed to own a home also has the right to collect an income for their rent. Therefore, assisting those who need it, facilitating that the Administration can diagnose the vulnerability situation and not open the door to oppositions and demands when the vulnerability situation has not been addressed through the Administration. It does not serve me as a reason to oppose the braveness of being in a vulnerable situation, but it is necessary to be credible and the Administration has to evaluate it. If not, do you know what happens next? That justice is taken by his hand and many situations of real vulnerability are overcome by abuses in the occupation of housing by people who have skipped precisely this analysis of vulnerability. I repeat that I expect a response to these amendments, but a response that faces the process of being able to solve the need for housing and housing vulnerability from realism rather than propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u127	President, ladies and gentlemen, of course we are on many points of agreement; in fact, we agree with much of the motion tabled. They cannot be left unattended to all these people that the crisis has caused them to lose almost everything. It needs to be said that many of these families have accessed these homes at inflated prices during the property boom and that responsibilities must be shared. The old parties did nothing at the time with that bubble and neither did the regulatory agencies, fully politicized, know how to act to prevent what was happening and what many analysts were warning about. The lack of homogeneous data in this regard makes each one have different data, but in the end we can summarize that there are four hundred thousand families affected during the period of crisis by this situation. We share the disbelief in the response given by the Government of Spain to the communication of the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u128	Wait a minute, Mrs. Rodriguez. I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u129	But there is one thing that you have said or that says the motion and is that such communiqués are binding. The reality is, they're not. Even so, even if they are not binding, we share and subscribe to what that United Nations committee says. In addition, much of the motion contains these points and those points we have in common, and we have already spoken about this earlier. It is clear that we have tabled amendments because there are points that we do not subscribe to 100%. It is necessary to distinguish between types of evictions; on the one hand, there are the houses on the property and, on the other hand, there are the rentals. Not all owners are bad, as the previous spokesperson said; not all are big companies with big real estate packages. I'm going to put the case of a friend of mine's grandmother, who owns a flat and renting that flat helps her to increase or contribute to the pension she has every day. With this, not all owners are bad, and I think criminalizing all owners would be talking about something that doesn't correspond to reality. Furthermore, the United Nations tells us that alternatives must be given to this dramatic situation. That is why we have done our duties and introduced that second- chance law, which also contains real alternatives. There are many empty houses, it's clear, and we need to know how many exist because we don't know. But the systematic policy of exploding is not the solution. At present, there are already mechanisms for penalizing these owners of empty dwellings, but we are prepared to sit down, not put patches, to discuss whether these mechanisms work, if they do not work, and whether some kind of correction needs to be implemented. The issue we are discussing today is very sensitive, it goes far beyond the frivolous part of a law or not law, it is a matter that directly affects people. This is important to us. We have already discussed two second-opportunity citizens' GNPs, both in plenary and in the Commission. Moreover, also in the motion we recorded on the phenomenon of occupation there were very concrete measures to talk about the issue we are discussing. Even so, we do not comply, and I say this because we have presented - as I said before - a second chance law proposal that gives real solutions to these four hundred thousand families that have been affected by this property boom in the period of crisis, with three basic premises: facilitating the restructuring and judicial forgiveness of debts, the dation in payment, and social rental, rents that are affordable according to the incomes of those people who are in a situation of vulnerability and some cases of extreme vulnerability. It is necessary to make a diagnosis of the situation of each of these families and, therefore, with our proposal for a law, going directly to the data, these families will not only be able to cancel their mortgage debt by means of payment, but will also be able to stay at their home for a minimum period of three years extending to five. In addition, they will do so with a social rental that never exceeds 30% of their income, and may even request the suspension of such a launch and the right to remain in the housing. We are committed to this issue because it is a sensitive issue; it is an issue that worries us about this whole parliamentary arc, I dare say that all your ladies and gentlemen, on which many irresponsibilitys have been committed and, therefore, we believe that one of the new initiatives presented by the People's Party in this case is nothing more than patches that smell another real estate tufo and that do not solve the real problem. We share part of the motion, as we have already told the proposing group. We would like them to accept our amendments and, if not, we would ask for a point vote in order to reach agreement on all those points with which we agree and to be able to express our opposite position in those with which we do not agree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's paradoxical. Spain was a member of the Human Rights Council - it did so on January 1st of this year for the period 2018-2020 - ignoring the obligation to respond adequately to the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. As mentioned here, this committee condemned our country for violating the right to housing by failing to guarantee alternative housing in the face of eviction to a vulnerable family and with two minor children. The sentence consisted of the adoption by the Spanish State of a series of measures aimed at preventing similar violations in the future, including effective reparation to the victims, but none of this happened here in Spain, because the opinion was ignored, so that the family concerned was forced to live ten days in a car. The Government has not contacted the family and even, as they themselves say, has not apologized to them. Since the Socialist Party, as it could not be otherwise, we condemn this violation of rights by the Government and of course the lack of subsequent responses that Mr Mayoral alluded to, but unfortunately none of this is surprising, since the violation of the right to housing has been commonplace since the People's Party ruled. It is enough to check the mockery to which we have recently been subjected with the approval of the 2018-2021 Housing Plan, a plan that is approved late and badly. Late, because the date set by the minister himself was not fulfilled -1 January 2018 - and also having extended the previous plan, and bad, because the demands of the autonomous communities are neglected, aid to the elderly, to pensioners are eliminated, and because above all it is a plan that allocates to the expenditure on housing a ridiculous 0.03% of the gross domestic product, much less funding than in previous budgets; up to 75% less. The aid envisaged is therefore impossible to implement immediately by the Autonomous Communities. As we see, the Government seems to be giving the same thing, which is not a priority, and now not only at the national level, but also in the international community the alarm goes off and shamefully the United Nations comes to remind us that housing is a right and that the State has an obligation to guarantee it. That is why, from the Socialist Party, we reject - as we do not - the attitude of the Government, which is occupied in other areas - we do not know which ones - which does not deal with families in a special situation of vulnerability, such as that which has been the subject of the committee's opinion. But, as always, ladies and gentlemen of Unite Podemos, they do something again that they already have us used to, and it is that they repeat themselves in the initiatives. They use proposals from other groups that are already approved, so that they now include in the operative part of their motion agreements on guaranteeing access to housing that, as I say, are already approved. They were adopted in the Committee on Development on 28 June, three months later they were re-adopted here in plenary because they brought back the same initiative, and now again they try to put the same agreements to the vote, so we could say that they do nothing different from what the People's Party does, which is to ignore what has been adopted. They do not comply and you do as you have never existed, then you cut and hit, so now we see here again, in this text, you ask to promote agreements with the Sareb, to establish lines of help within the ICO for the rehabilitation of rented housing, to approve direct aids for the payment of rent for families with incomes less than three times the Iprem. [[Rumors]] These measures have been proposed by the Socialist Group, which have been negotiated with you, ladies and gentlemen, and I insist that you are approved by this House. [[Rumors]] And, elders, tomorrow they will bring the same motion back to the Senate, where the People's Party has an absolute majority. I don't know what they're up to. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u132	Wait a minute, Mrs. Romingera, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u133	Thank you, President. I told him that I don't know what they're trying to do, but it gives the complete feeling that they're being - with all due respect to me - opportunistic. I would ask you not to profit from the suffering of those who do not peacefully have decent housing, and that is why I ask you for a little more rigour when it comes to making your proposals. We, of course, consider it extremely necessary to urge the Government to stop violating the right to housing and to comply with what is required of them by the United Nations, but we believe that the text under discussion, in addition to including in its operative part agreements that are already adopted, requires greater precision in certain respects. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments which we hope will be accepted because basically it is about making the motion sound, following precisely the general comments of the United Nations that are supposed to inspire them and, of course, with the legislative amendments that were relevant, because they are amendments that make it possible to defend the right to housing, especially the most vulnerable people. As Mr Mayoral himself said, evictions without housing alternatives are illegal. We therefore hope that our amendments will be taken into account in order to be able to vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romingera. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u135	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, Mr Mayor, the truth is that I cannot understand the object of this motion, not even the form of questioning the minister in the last plenary, but I understand it. You propose a series of measures on housing protocols and guarantees that I believe you want to demonstrate your party's commitment to families with economic difficulties in accessing housing or to families that may be the subject of evictions, but the only thing that denotes is a deep ignorance of Spanish legislation and all the measures that exist and that have been put on the table and adopted in recent years in the area of housing; measures that have been adopted by the People's Party. The truth is that you come here to make blood, but only with your particular interpretation of an opinion. The first political group that met with the Civil Society Monitoring Group - at least that's what they told us - was the People's Parliamentary Group, and we had a quiet, calm, enriching and unscriptural conversation, in which each one expressed their views, and we committed ourselves to presenting an initiative that publicly announced the outcome of that opinion for dissemination, as stated in the last recommendation of the opinion. We believe that it is very important that these cases are known, for good and for bad; that the vision of all parties is known and that certain attitudes can be corrected, such as what happened to the actors in this opinion. But, above all, there should be information; information on the prior procedures and prevention of a launch, whether for mortgage or for rent. And to report, we need to know what measures I think your parliamentary group does not know, and as it does not know, it denies their effectiveness. I'll remind you because that's why I'm here. Among the measures taken by the People's Party to effectively solve housing problems in this country... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u136	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u137	... we have Decree 6/2012, code of good practice; Law 1/2013, on the protection of mortgage debtors; the Social Housing Fund; Royal Decree-Law 5/2012, second chance; and the last, Royal Decree-Law 5/2017, which extends the moratorium on evictions until 2020 and with characteristics that greatly expand the number of families that can be accommodated. And what have all these measures led to? What they have brought about is a dramatic reduction in mortgage executions. The reality of our country is that there has been a 60% reduction in mortgage executions between July and September compared to 2016, and 84% since the second quarter of 2014, which was the highest point, and this, although it weighs you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, has no other signature than that of the People's Party. If we talk about rental housing guarantees, last Friday the Council of Ministers approved the new State Housing Plan 2018-2021, and I can tell you that it is the most social plan in history and that it also satisfies quite a few measures that you propose to us in this motion. The plan contains six rental programmes and three of them with a price limit, ranging from €5.5 per month per working square metre to 9.5 per square metre, and a broad range covering families with no income up to five times the Iprem, a specific programme for young people, a programme for the elderly and persons with disabilities, and a specific programme for families in a situation or at risk of vulnerability that could be evicted by mortgage execution or rental. This programme covers the whole of the rent, 80% by the State and 20% by the Autonomous Communities. And the planned investment of this grant scheme is EUR 1 443 000 and with the induced private investment it is estimated that more than 4 billion can be allocated to housing and that more than 500 000 aid can be given. We have proposed an amendment in which we agree on most of the points they propose, we have spoken about it and we know it, because one of the objectives of the People's Party is that there is not a single - or a single - family without housing, that is our priority objective. Also, one of the points that we have corrected is, of course, the one that goes against private property because we consider it also a constitutional right; and we have added a point to stimulate the expansion of the rental housing stock to counter this brutal increase in rents that is taking place in cities such as Madrid and Barcelona and that we also suffer in the Canary Islands. In the rest we absolutely agree, and we would like all political groups to reach an agreement to approve this motion. Honestly, I'm telling you, if you want to solve people's lives, help to work so that everyone has a decent home, don't cheat, but establish where they run brokerage, information offices, which have been running for three years. I say to you that it is as important to know this opinion as to inform everyone about the measures that already exist and that have been implemented thanks to the People's Party to effectively solve the housing problems that this country has suffered. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u139	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. President. Mr Mayor, let's confess, we start from some areas of coincidence: the social role of property and the linking of housing to a housing purpose and the public guarantee to be offered. And you know it because you also know that in Euskadi we have Law 3/2015 with which we have legislated certain measures in which the social function of property, the housing use of housing, the guarantee of the existence of certain purposes that are protected by the housing law itself has been a constant and is a reality, unlike other places is a reality. In Euskadi there is a guarantee of the right to housing, and it is a substantial element that must be taken and appreciated on the one hand. There is also a promotion of public housing policies and especially of rental housing because it is also covered by the law itself in this way. There is a categorization in addition to unoccupied housing and some consequences associated with this specific situation whose legal regulation is provided for in the law itself, which allows the Administration to adopt measures leading to its entry into the market. It's a reality. That is why we understand that some of the proposed measures are logical and it is true that we agree with them, but we disagree with one of the measures used to achieve those ends. That is the issue on which we are not going to agree because we do not participate in your property model or legal status that you intend to recognize the property or, rather, deprive the property, as you point out in your motion. Even in this debate I am going to try to put aside some competition issues, although it is true, and I must remind you, that your motion is also clearly interventionist - you are, but yes - we are going to leave it in quite an interventionist way, in some areas, with powers, powers and even possibilities which are currently exercised by the autonomous communities in some cases and, of course, the Basque Autonomous Community and which you are moving to the area of State administration. Even coinciding - and I must warn you this - with some recent sentence in the case of Navarra housing law, in which some possibilities are restricted and which we believe you also participate in that vision, at least to some extent. We understand that these proposed measures, as I say, are clearly intrusive in some cases of jurisdiction and in other cases they are clearly encircling the guarantees that should be covered by the right of ownership. Thus, the guarantees of eviction that are proposed would in many cases become deprivation of the status of property if, as is done, the legal status as you claim, without prejudice to the fact that, if possible and as recognized by the CT, it is possible that in certain cases - also in the Navarra law, of course, of intervention when it is a specific modality that is that of the ownership of legal persons in regimes of multi-property or abundant property - a legal status of its own, but regulated in the law, is contemplated, not through these mechanisms. In that regard, from the analysis of the specific issues that you mention, we understand that in some cases they are exceeded by enforcing what are merely recommendations of the resolution of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, it is perhaps excessive. Therefore, adopting legislative measures to ensure judicial eviction proceedings is fine, but intervention through the Civil Prosecution Act in some cases is another excessive measure. We understand the coordination protocols and participate in it and we have provided for it in our own legislation and the right to housing to regard it as such, having as an instrument the Committee on Economic and Social Rights, it is also somewhat deregulated we understand and so are a number of issues that are contemplated regarding what I say in some cases... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u140	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence. Wait a minute, Mr. Barandiaran. I beg you to remain silent and ask you that if you are going to keep corridors, do so at least in the corridor and not in the corridors of the Chamber, in the corridor outside the Chamber and not inside, please. I see that some do not even listen to what this presidency tells them. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u141	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Under that statement, as you will understand, there are issues on which we could agree and others on which we would not agree. I offer you the possibility of being able to show my agreement with some of these issues and with others not, participating in it that we are going to ask you to vote on points and that we may or may not agree with it, but we understand, in principle, that the purposes you seek can be sheltered in other kinds of actions as does Law 3/2015 itself in Basquedi and that there is no need to achieve certain actions such as those proposed in this motion with respect to which we are going to express our discrepancy, with all due respect. That is why I repeat that we are going to ask for the point vote so that we can express it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Surra Spadea has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again discussing housing in this area. This is an issue of vital importance that is never completed and that obliges us to insist on the 24/2015 Law, on urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency, approved by the legitimate Parliament of Catalonia and suspended by the 'constitutional tribunal'. A law that during its implementation allowed, for example, to paralyze hundreds of evictions in the city of Barcelona and that established mechanisms for guaranteeing a constitutional right such as the right of everyone to a decent housing. Law 24/2015, of the Parliament of Catalonia, recovered the expropriation of empty flats for the social rental and relocation of the affected families who could not pay a mortgage or a rent. It is a law that sought to improve and offer judicial guarantees to tenants, a law that was suspended in June 2016 by the unusual argument of protecting the equality of Spaniards, because in other communities they did not have it. As always: matching down. The lack of satisfaction of basic housing and energy needs contradicts many international commitments undertaken by the Spanish State. Rights and obligations that are also protected by the Spanish Constitution, but sometimes forget their most fervent defenders who only recall some of their articles selectively. The Constitution recognizes the right to decent and adequate housing and links it to the obligation of the public authorities to prevent speculation; it also imposes on the public authorities the duty to ensure that the right to property is not exercised in an antisocial manner; and it subordinates all wealth, regardless of ownership, to the general interest. This obligation is particularly relevant in the case of financial institutions and undertakings providing economic services of general interest, in particular if they have been beneficiaries of public aid and subsidies. [[Article 47]] [[Article 33]] [[Article 128]] [[Rumors]] Public administrations should ensure, in any case, adequate relocation of persons and family units at risk or in the event of residential exclusion who are in the process of being released from their habitual home in order to be able to make an eviction effective. The Administration can resolve the mandatory assignment of housing to the Housing Fund for rent for social policies. There is no doubt that the Spanish State needs to guarantee the right to decent housing for all citizens and, no doubt, also that this motion, if approved by the majority, will go in that direction. That is why Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, faithful to its commitment to support the working classes and the most needy, will vote in favour. Thank you. [[applause.-Continue the rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surra. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Mayor whether he accepts some of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u145	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u146	All right, thank you very much. The vote will take place on its own terms. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SITUATION OF THE SPANISH SYSTEM OF SCIENCE AND INNOVATION. [[File number 173/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u147	Motion for an urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the situation in the Spanish system of science and innovation. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs González Veracruz has the floor. [[Rumors]] As I've been doing all afternoon, I repeat the request for silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. After bringing science to the control session, not with all the success we would have liked since we asked Mr Rajoy that since De Guindos was leaving, that he would appoint a minister or a minister of science, today, three weeks later, we are not only equal without a minister or minister of science and nothing has changed in this country, but that we are worse: after three weeks, today, scientists and scientists have more problems precisely by the Public Procurement Act. [[The Rumors Continue]] We did not have the expected success, but today it is time to make proposals: the proposals of a country agreement, of an agreement proposed by the Socialist Party, which is fundamental, to begin to see the solutions on a crucial issue for Spain. We made the criticism by bringing here the voice of scientists and scientists, of those who are resisting in their laboratory, of those who have left this country or of those who have been expelled from laboratories and no longer devote themselves to science, but also the voice - this is very serious - of researchers with an impressive trajectory, of researchers like Mojica, who has discovered the Crispr method in Alicante, who today has to be devoting his time taking into account a government that controls him, a government that seems to appreciate something so important for the economy, for equality, for the fight against precariousness, prefers to pursue scientists rather than to support that talent. [[Applauds]] That is why the essence of our motion is very clear: an agreement in this country is essential for research. [[Show a writing]] Only in this way will we be able to return and recover the levels of investment that existed before those that have made us go back ten years, only in this way will we be able to recover the talent of all those thousands of people who have come out of Spain or from science. We are convinced that this is the only way we will lift that sword that Montoro, Rajoy and the PP government have put in the bureaucracy and control of science in our country. We want to do this and we believe that we have to do it by agreement as, by the way, the scientific community is demanding and as has always been our style. [[Rumors]] I want to make some history. Precisely if the Science Act of 1986 had the success it had, it was for the scientific system, for the great scientists and scientists that we have in this country, but also because there was a great political and social agreement then. Just as there was a great deal of agreement by the Science Act in 2011, which unfortunately has been broken by its non-compliance, by the setbacks in cuts, by the lack of execution and by the bureaucratic obstacles that have been imposed in recent times. I would also like to recall an agreement that is fundamental to me, because it is not only of the people who are in this House and that we must set an example today, it is also of organised civil society, which represents scientists and scientists who in 2013 managed to achieve a great parliamentary agreement here, in which only the support of the PP was lacking, but today I hope that this will change and that an agreement of all parliamentary groups will be born from this motion because I know that out there we are waiting for us to do great things about science and innovation. Of course, it can't be any deal. Do not expect us in the Government to whitewash the face of precarious policies, precarious employment policies, low wages, when we are convinced that competitiveness, that the present and future of this country are going through just another economic model. That is why the agreement must be based on three very clear points. The first, the recovery of investment. Unfortunately, Europe has already told us in the last report that it is very unlikely that we will achieve our own national objective, which is no longer 3%, towards European convergence - the Rajoy Government has already reduced it to 2% - and it is normal for the European Commission to see that it is very unlikely to achieve it when we have had the historic fall to 1.19%. [[The Rumors Continue]] But in this motion we ask them to have unrealizable dreams, we ask them to agree on a percentage, within the general budgets of the State, which marks a conviction, a political priority in order to achieve at a certain time that objective, which is 2.5% of the general budgets of the State. Just one more thing: in 2011, a very hard time, in the State General Budgets science weighed 2.37 %; today, at a time when there is supposed to be an economic recovery and we should be investing much more in science, we are talking only about 1.8%. We have to guarantee in that country agreement the investment, but also the execution, because there are hidden cuts - there was only 38% execution in 2016 -; just as we have to guarantee a very urgent return plan for human resources, for all that talent that we have stupidly expelled from the scientific system. To allow the aging of the system, to allow what has happened, that is to continue living from the income of the investment of 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, and to charge us basically the middle class, because what we have done is that it only survives... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u149	Wait a minute, Mrs. Gonzalez. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. As the afternoon progresses, the murmuring is already untenable, at least from here, and I suppose the intervener is upset, probably as much as I or more. I beg you, please, respect for those who have the floor. If you have to hold talks, I suppose that very important, be absent for a moment from the Chamber, do so in the corridors and thus allow us to continue the debate by listening to those who have to be heard exclusively, who is the spokesman who is speaking. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u150	No matter what bothers me, it matters the image we give to so many people who are concerned about the future of this country, about the economy, about the talent and about the real future of our country. [[Applauds]] We propose the return of talent, not only from outside, but also - also from all those who have come out of science -, with very studied data, of 10,000 scientists and scientists for four years, but above all - the most important thing almost, because it is the least money worth and the most proof of the lack of political priority at this time, that we must urgently reverse - what has to do with management, with bureaucratic changes, because we honestly cannot continue to allow it to be so difficult, practically impossible - I was talking about heroism in the inquiry - to investigate in this country. We are talking about ensuring that the necessary regulations are in place to stabilize all researchers who left the system at work while the replacement rate was what it was. Now we have to get all those people back. We are talking about more than 800 researchers waiting for you to comply - the members of the government, now that I see Minister Báñez - with the Science Act, and that is making them less competitive when it comes to getting that money that the government always says you have to go looking for Europe, where we are very good looking for it, but we also need support within to converge. We have to recover the previous financial control system, we have to stop looking at researchers as if they were fraudsters, while doing tax amnesty, and allow us to recover the previous system. I used to say that in these three weeks the situation of any scientist or researcher has become much more complicated, and I will explain it with just one example. After the Public Sector Contracts Act, so that an investigator can buy a cytometer or certain reagents will simply put into play even if they can take legal action against it, because the minimum threshold necessary to demand a public contest that represents a great ignorance, once again, of what happens in the laboratories has been lowered. I mean, we're telling the investigator to choose between buying what he needs to keep researching or playing with his signature. This must be reversed urgently, like so many other issues that depend alone, only to remove all those obstacles that the Rajoy Government has been putting in place, which has been basically putting Montoro. I end with a fundamental idea. To achieve that agreement that our country needs, the State Research Agency must be implemented. I do not know how many times we have spoken in this Parliament before I was here, since 2004 or 2005, of the State Research Agency, and this morning the research members of the COSE - no revolutionary -, independent researchers who only defend this status as a country, of Spain, said a phrase that I have left: of the State Research Agency is only the shell, there is no multiannual budget. It had to be approved since 2012, it was approved in 2015 and in 2018 we still have a state agency that does not respond to needs. That is why we propose in the motion the model of the European Research Council, that is why we propose an ex ante evaluation and an ex post evaluation, that is why we propose, in the end, to also converge on the model of flexibility and independence in the case of the Spanish Research Agency. [[Rumors]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u151	You have to finish, Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u152	I'm done. Socialists refuse to continue to expel talent from universities, research centres and our country. They are part of the generation of employment and the future that our economy needs. We are not going to resign with precariousness; we are not going to resign with lack of investment, with direct and covert cuts; we are not going to resign with bureaucracy. We know we're only gonna get it if we all do it together. That is why I ask for your support, because it is requested by the scientific community and because it is essential for our country and for our immediate future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs González. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The Rumors Continue]] Starting from the fact that the Forum feels good that a broad institutional and political commitment is being promoted and established around a country agreement for science, I would like to stress that this parliamentary initiative places great emphasis on the need for public support, but minimizes the relevance of private participation and investment as an alternative and complementary way for innovative projects and experimental development, both in new and already consolidated companies. A large country agreement for science also requires public support, leadership, participation and private investment. I did not receive any particular attention during the inquiry, either in the text of the motion or in the intervention of the Socialist spokesman this afternoon, to support the university in the development of innovative culture promotion programmes that are focused on having a greater base of researchers, encouraging the creation of new companies on the basis of innovative ideas and transferring knowledge. We believe that the university should be given great importance in consolidating its scientific production as an indispensable and essential element for the transfer of R & D & I, which, in turn, allows our companies to take advantage of it to be competitive and create jobs, because what it is about is to develop a competitive and innovative economy and create jobs: Spain's high economic, political and social priority. It has therefore tabled an amendment extending the scope of this great agreement for science, so that it covers research, development and innovation activities, R & D & I, as a lever to make a change in the current economic model that allows the modernisation and improvement of the competitiveness of our industries and companies so that they can increase their supply in global markets. Speaking of financing, we consider it essential - I stress - to promote private investment, creating better fiscal and legal conditions that favour the creation of venture capital funds, seed capital and Business Angels networks. The Forum amendment also incorporates a section on human capital because it is essential to attract researchers and avoid their emigration. In this sense, we consider that in Spain, technological and innovative companies lack resources and incentives that allow them to strengthen the sense of belonging of employees and a greater commitment and alignment with the objectives of the company. [[Rumors]] I have received no indication from the Socialist Group that our amendments are going to be accepted, nor the possibility of a compromise text, in which case I shall abstain in the vote. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs González Veracruz. Yes, from the A to the Z we support your motion as a result of questioning and we follow with great interest the debate on the research policy that you made last week to the Executive. [[The lady]] But we have tabled an amendment which I hope will have a good track record and be able to be incorporated into the text because we are public representatives and as such we have to echo what is happening in the field of scientific policy. Although the Spanish Government wished to make a good scientific policy, in the last few hours we have seen the friendly fire of the Spanish Government itself, which from the Ministry of Finance is attacking scientific policy. EFE Agency teletype yesterday. [[Showing a paper]] - Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it is not necessary to prepare a great speech, it is enough to read the first paragraph of a teletype to become a spokesman for many people, for many researchers - scientists ask that one hundred percent of the VAT be deducted from public research. More than forty Spanish research centres and units have today called for research to be regarded as an economic activity of general interest, the subsidies of which should not have an impact on VAT. What is now being claimed is that the deductibility of 100 per cent of the supported VAT linked to the purchase of goods and services for research, e.g. laboratory material, is not questioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance is currently planning a great deal of legal uncertainty in the field of research, because the Finance Inspectors have begun to question the deductibility of VAT borne by goods and services, claiming that the nature of the economic activities of science must be proven. Moreover, they do so without unanimity throughout the country because the tax inspections vary between a deduction of 30% or the obligation to pay one hundred percent. Ladies and gentlemen, this is entrepreneurship. The Government needs to be clarified. The scientific research centers have a sword of Damocles at a cost of 25 million euros that they had not contemplated and that can derail their research activity. [[Rumors]] Madam President, we support the motion, but we also want to be the voice of these scientists who do not understand why an uncoordinated government is surprisingly, since its Ministry of Finance, sinking scientific policy in Spain. [[Show a photograph with a few phrases]] It is regrettable, I hope that your motion will succeed and I hope that this message from the scientific field can be incorporated into it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. [[The Rumors Continue]] Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to finish the plenary session, so I ask you, please, a little silence to listen to the speakers on the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I will start my speech by reminding scientists, researchers, professors and science workers that on March 8th they went on strike, simply and simply because they had reasons, like all the women in this country: wage gap, glass ceiling, lack of reconciliation, maternity bill in the scientific career and, as in many other areas, less visibility and recognition. [[applause]] If in Spain it is difficult to do science, it is much more so if you are a woman, therefore, one of the urgent measures must be to reduce gender inequality in our R & D & i system. The description of all the problems, difficulties and challenges facing our science can be summarized in three large blocks. Firstly, there is a clear budgetary problem. The cuts that have been applied since 2009 in public investment in science have passed a very high bill to both centers and people working in science. We are not just talking about years of crisis, but it is a political line in which science is not a priority, because this government has not yet explained why in the past defence budgets it has risen by 32% and science only by 1%. At this point I would like to call on the Socialist Party to vote in July, when the expenditure ceiling comes, not with us, to join our group for a progressive and expansive budgetary policy in order, precisely, to achieve what they call for in their motion, a greater investment in science. The second problem of R & D+i is precariousness, which in addition to generating social inequality and putting at risk the sustainability of our pension system, precariousness is a scourge in our science and is in two directions. Firstly, because the lack of resources and the very design of the scientific career makes uncertainty the general rule, which forces many of our talents to either emigrate or abandon science. The second dimension is that there is a lack of labour regulation combining the necessary flexibility of science with the rights and security of the people working in it. Enough patches; we need a long-term human resources policy that takes care of, attracts and consolidates talent. Thirdly and lastly, there are administrative, bureaucratic and expenditure control procedures. We have centres that try to do science in the twenty-first century, but which find themselves with a 19th century bureaucracy that makes them lose resources and also competitiveness. I give you an example: a fee of 300 euros for an international scientific society needs approval from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, approval from the Ministry of Finance and final approval in the Council of Ministers. Judge for yourselves the rationality of our administrative procedures. And in the face of this desolating panorama, that not only do we paint - you can read it in the press or anyone who works in public research centers can tell you - do you know it's the worst? That the only solution given by the Government to the problem of science is an agreement between all political forces, and this is our greatest discrepancy with the text presented today by the Socialist Group. We share each and every one of the measures proposed in it because they are absolutely necessary and urgent for our R & D & i system and that is why we will vote in favour, but we do not believe that they are all part of a country agreement. There are measures, such as budget implementation, eliminating prior intervention or the Staff Regulations for Training Investigators, which are the sole responsibility of the Government, and we are sick and tired of the fact that in order to praise and amend seven years of harmful policies, an appeal is made continuously to the pact and to agreements when, in parallel, the Government, in complicity with Citizens, continually strangles the legislative capacity of this House, blocking legislative initiatives where it could be easy to find such consensus. And don't hang up. Don't hang up and much less in science, and I'll explain why. Because the minister responsible for science and the R+D+i Secretariat of State paint absolutely nothing on the major subjects of science. Do you remember the three great themes I mentioned? Let's review: Who decides on budgets and public procurement? The Minister of Finance and Public Service. Who decides about labour policy? The Minister of Employment. Who decides on administrative procedures? The Vice-President, in charge of public administrations. [[Rumors]] The priority, ladies and gentlemen, is not an agreement in Congress or between parties, but an agreement between Mariano Rajoy's ministries. When they are clear and willing to invest resources and adapt labour and bureaucratic regulations to the needs of science, my parliamentary group will listen to them and support them, as when they have come with concrete solutions and not with great words that have resulted in them not being of consensus in their own Government. The problem is that after seven years of government of the People's Party, leaving public research on the verge of collapse and neglecting what may be the best prepared generation in the history of science in Spain, they have also failed to mobilize private investment or to make R & D+i one of the pillars of our economy. The scientific policy of the People's Party, or rather the non-scientific policy, is leaving us without cure against cancer, without technologies for energy transition, without tools for digitization and so many things that improve our life thanks to science. They're mortgageing the future of this country. Put it in his head, without science there's no future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group's position. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u160	Good afternoon. Pick it up on. Thank you, President. I want to say something to your ladies and gentlemen who already know, and that is that in Euskadi we have competence in scientific research and, of course, we are committed to R & D & I, as endorsed by the many European reports and institutions. [[The lady]] But it must be acknowledged that in Spain, despite the economic recovery, investment in research and development continues to lose weight and that budgetary investment since 2008 has fallen by around 10 %. According to Eurostat statistics, Spain does not stand out for its investment in R & D+i and, according to the 2017 RIS, is considered a moderate innovative country: a size of small enterprises, low-skilled sectors, incubators, technology centres and universities far away or with insufficient connection to business activity. The great difficulty in obtaining funding for projects based primarily on intangible knowledge hinders the improvement of R & D+i in Spain. And it must be said, ladies and gentlemen, that none of the successive governments has turned as it should on this issue because the plans to give impetus have not worked. Plans seem to be more prone to patching up problems without a clear strategic bet to create the conditions for an ecosystem that will improve the science and innovation system. These are plans in which fiscal aid has basically been put in place and in which public expenditure has basically or more been directed towards promoting soft loans rather than subsidies, credits which are also not requested and which ultimately lead to budget failure. [[Rumors]] The basis for the competitiveness of a science and technology system must be underpinned by solid and sustained investment over time...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u161	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Silence, please, that the speaker is not heard. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u162	... and society, of course, must know what it is intended for, because part of that investment is made by public administrations. And in competitive research projects subject to ex ante and ex post evaluation, as their follow-up will measure the capacity of researchers, research groups, institutions and even a science system to attract competitive funding at regional, state or international level, providing recognition of these actors. Having said that, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting us today with a motion for a follow-up call in which we observe a series of measures and recommendations that reflect many of the demands that have come to them, but in our view without a real reflection on the structural problems of the R & D+i system and without taking into account a diagnosis that should mark the objectives within a strategic planning that will help to overcome the barriers of R & D+i and also to achieve cooperation between the world of enterprise and the world of science; that is to say, to know why, why and how, trying to prevent innovation systems with public support from serving neither the productive fabric nor the society that is supporting them and being aware that the return of investment in R & D+i is not in the short term. The changes that have occurred in the environment are numerous and this must lead to the realization of a diagnosis and a process of adaptation of the innovation strategy in order to promote the concentration of resources and investments in R & D+i in areas where there are clear synergies with the potential productive capacities existing in a region. This implies that they must converge the needs oriented from the demand with those driven by the advances of the scientific technological supply generated - Spain is the first power in scientific publications, but is unable to bring that strength to the productive system - without forgetting also the much needed basic research. The debate about public spending on R & D+i is there, it's a lively debate. All political groups defend this type of policy as a basis for the boost of economic development and employment, but it must also be recognized that statistics show that in places where R & D & I has the greatest presence a significant part of investment expenditure comes from the private sector and therefore public expenditure has to be used to give the private sector a boost as well. Cosce in its report acknowledges the absence of a serious and committed public policy to solve the problems of the science system, an absence that has a perverse effect especially on research activity. We believe that different measures should be put in place, but not by creating new bodies, as proposed in innovation policies, which will be more efficient per se. The motion addresses many existing issues in this sector and we are aware that they cannot be dealt with in an isolated and short-term way - they could be doomed to failure - but they must take care of a diagnosis that has assessed not only the experiences of the past but also of the present, within a process of reflection that leads to a strategy that implies a real policy that bets on R & D+i as an engine of growth. Therefore, our position will in principle be abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent because there are still interventions and with this murmuring it is impossible to follow the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good night. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, we thank you for the initiative of introducing this motion, which gives us the opportunity to vote in favour of an agreement to which we believe that no one should object and on which I have already announced that Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour. To talk about R & D+i is to talk about an economic and social model with a different vision from the current one; it is to talk about being able to align the social and scientific challenges of the country and focus them in the medium and long term giving way to young talent, instead of this short-term economic system that generates low-cost jobs and that prefers vulture funds that get a quick return at the expense of pensioners' savings rather than investing in long-term research by creating value-added jobs for the benefit of society as a whole. Although we must end up talking about budgets and cuts, and you have taken care in your intervention to highlight the damage that has been done during these years, it must be pointed out that the disappearance of the Ministry of Science and Innovation was a great blow against R & D+i, and for this we should look to the right side of the House, but it must also be remembered that the cuts in R & D+i started precisely with the socialist government. It was then that they began to pervert the system from subsidies to credits. Therefore, it is not only a question of putting more resources, but also a question of showing in a reliable way that we are aware that the scientific sector is a priority, that it becomes a strategic sector, which is why it ceases to have Corsican and is definitely and properly driven. For this reason, our sincere concern about this motion is that it does not become a new toast to the sun, and more so bearing in mind the mania of the People's Party Government to put taxes on the sun, because, in addition to organizing science and research as a priority and increasing budgets to European standards, what science requires is that it be left to work quietly, that it not be put on the wheels, that not every step involving a research process be taken, that it not become a real gymkhana, a maze of procedures that so far have only managed to get many scientists to give up their projects. Talk to some investigator and he'll tell them. [[Rumors]] We are concerned, for example, that the Tax Agency changes its approach arbitrarily...
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u165	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u166	... to claim the refund of VAT. Because now comes the interesting thing, the return of years of past VAT in about twenty research centers in Catalonia, which compromises their scientific activity and the future viability of some institutions. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u167	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet and take your seats or, if not, leave the Chamber, but we will not finish the debate with this level of murmuring because it is impossible to listen to the speaker and it is disrespectful. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u168	Thank you, President. The same centers denounce that they are claimed 25 million euros per year for this concept precisely on the same day that the Minister of Health comes to Catalonia to take the photo to explain that she believes a lot in research centers. Well, start there, Minister; I started here, Dolors. We are concerned that Article 155 of the Constitution will apply and that you, gentlemen of the PSOE, have supported it by creating confusion and administrative obstacles that almost paralyze various scientific projects. We are concerned that being an investigator is almost a high-risk occupation because of the likelihood of not being able to practice the profession or because of the possibility of ending up in exile. That the Spanish State is an exporter of scientific talent is not bad, but that it does not have the capacity to retain it is never good news. When you talk about seeking complicity with the private sector, we remember that you are still against the single European patent, committed to being completely isolated from the European Union's path of economic innovation, which is intended to follow innovative companies. We are also concerned that military R+D+i will grow and will not be able to reverse this trend to strengthen civilian R+D+i. In short, there are many concerns that your list of good intentions leaves unsolved despite your voluntarism. In spite of everything, I repeat, we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u169	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u170	President, ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE is coming today with this motion to the House in an unprecedented exercise of political cynicism. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Less than a week ago you have risen from the Bureau of the National Pact for Education. This morning, with a high eye and looking for an alternative, Citizens have put on the table an economic proposal that came from their own political party and the PSOE has rejected the PSOE with pilgrim excuses, has risen and has refused to return. Five hours later, do you dare to come here and ask the House to commit itself to a national pact for science, a country agreement for science? Hey, you're not ashamed! [[Applauds]] Do you know what's going on? That the PSOE happens to Podemos what werewolf men with the moon, that when you come out you put yourself in destroy mode looking for self-benefit in the worst, the better, and when you are not getting the PSOE builder and you want to talk about pacts and you want to talk about general policies. Gentlemen of the PSOE, don't hang up, don't hang up with your actions anymore. If you don't care about education or the future, how are we going to believe that you care about science? How are we gonna believe this? Moreover, you care about all matters of state because you are obsessed with your votes, with your withdrawals and with your own interests. I want to convey a message to citizens: that not all political groups are equal and not all politicians are equal. [[Applauds]] Some of us do have a country project, some of us have a country model and some of us believe in the future. Citizens are concerned about science, we are concerned about science with leaders, with leaders, before, during and after surveys. Therefore, and just for this reason of political coherence, we will support your motion. [[Laughs.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u171	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u172	Because promoting science in this country is urgent, necessary and important for the future. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Having said that, I'm going to allow myself to make some history, because you have to remind them that it was you, when you were running out of your mandate in 2011... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u173	Mrs. Martin Llaguno, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the last time I have called collectively to silence. I respect the speaker, I repeat. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u174	He said he wanted to remind you that it was you, when you finished your term in 2011, already thinking that you were not going to govern, those who made the Science Act and put a chorizo of provisions that forced the next government, Government that has taken this strategy from kick forward as they alone know how to do it, that is, doing nothing. [[Applauds]] That is why there have been 33 % cuts in science over the past few years; that is why we are still without the status of the research staff in training; that is why the State Research Agency has had to launch it with the investment agreement, and that is why OPI researchers are still without an evaluation of their performance. Everything, everything you raise today in your motion has already been asked by Citizens with GNP, with questions and with negotiations, but we have done so without complexes, not like you, because, for example, in point 1 you take out the mantra of GDP, but then you say again that no, that we must shield expenditure by avoiding economic cycles. Let's see, I've explained to you many times, that you can't blow and sip at the same time, that you either shield or GDP, and you're with the GDP mantra and in the end you don't seem to understand it. In Citizens we have gone beyond motions, beyond GNP and beyond questions. In Citizens we have presented facts, we have gone to negotiate. Things are achieved with facts, and that is why in the investiture agreement we took away from the People's Party Government the commitment to increase public investment in R & D by 1.2%; we got them to commit themselves to giving 500 million euros for a Cervera network; we got them to expand the public offer of employment and that the teachers, professors and interim holders, could take their places in ownership; we got the Ramon and Cajals to be hired in another way, with any category of work; or we got, as I said, to run the State Research Agency. But what's more, in the 2018 General State Budgets, if the government brings them in at once, the PP fulfills its commitments and the PSOE comes out of 'no', we will get - if the PP does - an increase of 3% in public investment in R & D+i, 50 million euros extra for the Cervera network, 480 million for new entrepreneurs and to pave the way for startups and 90 million dedicated to boosting the digital economy. Gentlemen of the PSOE, return to sanity, stop presenting chorizo motions like this, stop confusing the hemicycle with the ravine of a rally.. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u175	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u176	...and help us to force these gentlemen, to force the PP, to put on the batteries and to make real public policies. Gentlemen of the PP, keep your word, have a high eye, also on the subject of science. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u177	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Bravo Baena, and I pray again silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u178	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the criticisms of the Socialist Party, we sincerely believe in your intention of agreement, of a pact. That is why we will try to obviate everything that we have been told. Mrs Rivera, from Citizens, we can share with you the beginning of your intervention but, uncritically, remind you that you have risen from the pact for justice, you have abandoned the pact for justice. [[Protests.- Mrs. Rivera de la Cruz utters words that are not perceived.-Applause]] Man, a little bit of coherence, a little bit of coherence. If you make this little introduction, we'll stick to what we had planned. We believe that a new horizon for science is opening up as a result of this motion and the terms contained therein, as well as its amendments. For many months now, as you will know, efforts have been made by the Ministry of Economy, and in particular by the Secretariat of State for R & D+i, to reach a great pact for science, a framework that will allow us to continue to advance in the position as a country in all matters relating to R & D+i. And honestly, despite the goodwill of all parties, there was no success in its completion. With this motion a new perspective is opened, and we will group it into three blocks. The first, perhaps the most important thing for us - others first talked about funding - the research staff. We agree with his approach as a general concept; moreover, we consider, and the Minister told us so, that researchers are the nuclear piece on which science should turn, but we cannot share his proposal to hire 10,000 researchers, it lacks sufficient justification: programming, estimation of public spending... It would mean, for you to make an idea, multiply by three the staff we currently have at the CSIC. In front of that, what have we done? For take the data of the INE of the year 2016, have increased in the scope of the R+D+i 5000 people, of which 4000 are researchers, that is to enhance the R+D+i. Secondly, if we approve the 2018 General State Budgets, or if they do not, it would mean job stabilization in the next three years of 90% of the staff working in R & D+i. I also remind you that at the end of 2017 we approved Royal Decree 14/2017 to include the foundations, which you were forgotten to incorporate into the Science Act, and this has enabled the staff of the CNIO, the CNIC, etc. to be provided with stability and security. Secondly, it is also important, as it cannot be in any other way: financing. You know the Ministry's proposal, the Minister's proposal: 2% of gross domestic product. We want to thank from here, and I say this from the heart, the effort made by the Socialist Party, which until today asked for 3%, today in its motion they collect 2%; that is the way and we want to thank you because we recognize that it is an effort for you. [[Applauds]] And let's see why we're talking about 2%. Look, at the moment of greatest investment in the field of gross domestic product, it reached 1.40 and you did, we recognize it; today we have 1.20. Do you know what it would mean to reach 2%? 50% more of that time when it was most achieved, would be something historic achieved by all of us. Let's put it in millions of euros, which is what people see: it would mean moving from 13.2 billion euros to more than 23 billion euros in R & D+i, 9 billion of them all. Ojo, this is a very important investment movement, it affects the public sector, the General Administration of the State, autonomous communities, universities, the private sector as well; we have to do that among all of us. It is important to inject money but not to do it without control, not everything is the money; that has already been done at other times and it has cost a lot to reverse the situation and straighten the course. Let us not fall again; many things can be done without spending more. Example, Horizon 2020 Programme. Spain is the fourth country for the first time in history that has the most return, is the third country with the highest number of projects led and the fourth country with the highest number of projects selected. That's doing things right. And the autonomous communities also have to invest. Do you know how many communities invest 2%? None; only five invest more than 1%, so this commitment is not only here, it must be replicated in all autonomous parliaments. [[Applauds]] The European Union in the investment mix says that the private sector has to reach 66% and in Spain it does not reach 53%. How do we get the private sector, the investors to invest? By giving them security, stability and confidence in the system. Finally, they talked about procedural or bureaucratic issues and problems. They're right, but we're going to look at some of the commentators, for example, the IPO staff and their professional career. They know that there is a draft and that it requires for its purpose to approve the General Budgets of the State. You also know that there have been meetings of the Secretary of State for R & D and the Secretary of State for Budgets, who are working on a simplified regime for IPOs. If we are talking about VAT, Mr Xuclà, I advise you to ask your colleagues how we conduct the processing. We have made sure that the subsidies do not carry VAT, which is 21% more for the funding centres. And as for the deductibility of VAT, the pro rata, we are working on it in the new law on excluded sector contracts. I encourage you to know this. They also talk about the State Research Agency. Okay, but it's been less than a year, let's let it work. You can criticise it clearly, it's from the People's Party, but at least let it work, I don't know, is it okay two years, three years? We don't ask much of them either. [[Applauds]] Finally, as you can see from the exhibition we are not so far away, we share many objectives. We cannot vote in favour because some of your requests are already under way, have already been fulfilled or are impossible to comply with, but we are going to abstain, we agree on the substance and believe that this is a great opportunity for us to resume the pact for science, so that, as we do, you, gentlemen of the PSOE; we do not ask you to support the budgets, do as we do: abstain, it would be enough. It would be very important for our country that, thanks to this great pact and the budgets, we have the opportunity to continue to improve Spain and that it should be noted that this has come out of the effort and commitment of all of us. It would be a huge success. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u179	I ask Mrs González Veracruz whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u180	We have prepared a compromise with an amendment from Podemos and another from the PDECAT that we are going to vote on in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u181	The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin. Take your seats. We voted, first of all, on the Cantabria Parliament's proposal to reform the Organic Law 8/1981, of 30 December, on the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and of the President and Councillors of the Government. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 3 telematics votes, 322; in favour, 188 plus 2 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 131 plus 1 telematics vote, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u183	Consequently, the proposal for reform of the Autonomous Statute of Cantabria obtains the vote of all in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u184	We now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, which amends the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to decriminalize the insults to the crown and the outrages to Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 plus 3 telematics votes, 344; 93 plus 1 telematics vote, 94; 247 plus 2 telematics votes, 249; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u185	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u186	We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, a non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress, concerning the promotion of the necessary measures to ensure the veracity of information circulating through services connected to the Internet and to avoid interference that endangers the institutional stability in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote for points. We shall begin by voting on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 163 against, 177 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u187	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 162 against, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u188	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 167 against, 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u189	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour 168 against 172.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u190	It's rejected. - the Parliamentary Socialist Group on the Recovery of the Toledo Pact as an expression of political consensus and social dialogue in order to agree on measures to ensure dignified pensions and to strengthen the viability of the public pension system. [[File number 162/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u191	We now turn to the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the recovery of the Toledo Pact as an expression of political consensus and social dialogue in order to agree on measures to ensure decent pensions and to strengthen the viability of the public pension system. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Esquerra Republicana and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 180 against, 131 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u192	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u193	We shall continue with the votes on the motions. Firstly, we are going to vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the policies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment to reverse the depopulation process in Spain. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 30 against, 130 abstentions, 181.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u194	It's rejected. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the compliance by Spain with the opinion of the Committee OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND CULTURAL RIGHTS OF 20 JUNE 2017 ON THE RIGHT TO LIVING. [[File number 173/000081]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u195	We vote for the motion following an inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning Spain's compliance with the opinion of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 20 June 2017 on the right to housing. We are going to vote on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 164 against, 7 abstentions, 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u196	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SITUATION OF THE SPANISH SYSTEM OF SCIENCE AND INNOVATION. [[File number 173/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2018-03-13-CD180313.u197	We are now voting on the motion for an urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the situation in the Spanish system of science and innovation. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 202 against, 98 abstentions, 41. The President (spoke in French): It is adopted. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and ten minutes of the night.
